Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Adverse
    Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect
    Our Ability to Meet Liquidity Needs, Access to Capital and Cost
    of Capital


 


    The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme
    volatility and disruption. At times, the volatility and
    disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the
    markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of
    liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers.


 


    We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our
    debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities
    lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities.
    Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our
    operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources
    of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations,
    deposit funds, cash flow from our investment portfolio and
    assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily
    convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets
    also include short-term instruments such as repurchase
    agreements and commercial paper. Sources of capital in normal
    markets include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term
    debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities
    and equity securities.


 


    In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may
    have to seek additional financing. The availability of
    additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as
    market conditions, the general availability of credit, the
    volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit
    to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and
    credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or
    lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or
    short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment
    losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to
    a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be
    impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take
    negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity
    may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be
    able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable
    terms, or at all.


 


    Our liquidity requirements may change. For instance, we have
    funding agreements which can be put to us after a period of
    notice. The notice requirements vary; however, the shortest
    period is 90 days, applicable to approximately
    $1 billion of such liabilities at December 31, 2008.


 


    Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit
    markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate
    our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such
    market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely
    manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital
    requirements; and access the capital necessary to grow our
    business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital,
    issue different types of capital than we would otherwise, less
    effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities
    than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which
    could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our
    financial flexibility. Recently our credit spreads have widened
    considerably. Our results of operations, financial condition,



    
    31



Table of Contents




    cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially
    adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets.


 



    Difficult
    Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy
    Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and
    Results of Operations and These Conditions May Not Improve in
    the Near Future


 


    Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions
    in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in
    the United States and elsewhere around the world. The stress
    experienced by global capital markets that began in the second
    half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during 2008.
    Concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the
    U.S. mortgage market, geopolitical issues, energy costs,
    inflation and a declining real estate market in the United
    States contributed to increased volatility and diminished
    expectations for the economy and the markets in the near term.
    These factors, combined with declining business and consumer
    confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a
    recession. In addition, the fixed-income markets have
    experienced a period of extreme volatility which negatively
    impacted market liquidity conditions. Initially, the concerns on
    the part of market participants were focused on the sub-prime
    segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these
    concerns expanded to include a broad range of mortgage- and
    asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those
    rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit
    and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of
    financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors.
    Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and
    have less opportunity for disposal. Domestic and international
    equity markets have also experienced heightened volatility and
    turmoil, with issuers (such as our company) that have exposure
    to the real estate, mortgage and credit markets particularly
    affected. These events and continued market upheavals may have
    an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large
    investment portfolio and are also dependent upon customer
    behavior. Our revenues are likely to decline in such
    circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition,
    in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the
    global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in
    the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial
    risk of loss due to market volatility. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — Extraordinary Market
    Conditions.”


 


    We are a significant writer of variable annuity products. The
    account values of these products will be affected by the
    downturn in capital markets. Any decrease in account values will
    decrease the fees generated by our variable annuity products,
    cause the amortization of deferred acquisition costs to
    accelerate and may increase the level of reserves we must carry
    to support those variable annuities issued with any associated
    guarantees.


 


    Factors such as consumer spending, business investment,
    government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital
    markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic
    environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our
    business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher
    unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings,
    lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the
    demand for our financial and insurance products could be
    adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an elevated
    incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our
    policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or
    stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Adverse changes in
    the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition. The current crisis has also raised the
    possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions in
    addition to the recent enactment of the Emergency Economic
    Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) that could
    further impact our business. We cannot predict whether or when
    such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions
    could have on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition. See “— There Can be No Assurance that
    Actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York and Other Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the
    Purpose of Stabilizing the Financial Markets Will Achieve the
    Intended Effect” and “— Competitive Factors
    May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability.”


 



    There
    Can be No Assurance that Actions of the U.S. Government, Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York and Other Governmental and Regulatory
    Bodies for the Purpose of Stabilizing the Financial Markets Will
    Achieve the Intended Effect


 


    In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system
    and financial markets and going concern threats to investment
    banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008,
    President Bush signed the EESA into law.



    
    32



Table of Contents




    Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority
    to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of
    mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions
    for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. At
    December 31, 2008, $250 billion of this amount had
    been dedicated to making capital infusions to banking
    institutions and their holding companies. The Federal
    Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Federal
    Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and other
    governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering
    taking other actions to address the financial crisis. For
    example, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has been making
    funds available to commercial and financial companies under a
    number of programs, including the Commercial Paper Funding
    Facility and the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
    Program (the “FDIC Program”), as discussed further
    below, and legislation is pending in Congress that will allow
    bankruptcy judges in certain bankruptcy proceedings to alter the
    terms of certain mortgages, including reducing the principal
    amount of the loan. There can be no assurance as to what impact
    such actions will have on the financial markets, whether on the
    levels of volatility currently being experienced, the levels of
    lending by financial institutions, the prices buyers are willing
    to pay for financial assets or otherwise. Continued volatility,
    low levels of credit availability and low prices for financial
    assets materially and adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations and the trading price of our
    common stock. Furthermore, if the mortgage-related legislation
    is passed, it could cause loss of principal on certain of our
    nonagency prime residential mortgage backed security holdings
    and could cause a ratings downgrade in such holdings which, in
    turn, would cause an increase in unrealized losses on such
    securities. See ‘‘— We Are Exposed to
    Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which May
    Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition
    and Liquidity, and Our Net Investment Income Can Vary from
    Period to Period.” Finally, the choices made by the
    U.S. Treasury in its distribution of amounts available
    under the EESA could have the effect of supporting some parts of
    the financial system more than others. See
    “— Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability.”


 


    MetLife, Inc. and some or all of its affiliates may be eligible
    to sell assets to the U.S. Treasury under one or more of
    the programs established under EESA, and some of their assets
    may be among those the U.S. Treasury offers to purchase,
    either directly or through auction. Furthermore, as a bank
    holding company, MetLife, Inc. could be selected to participate
    in the U.S. Treasury’s capital infusion program,
    pursuant to which the U.S. Treasury purchases preferred
    shares of banking institutions or their holding companies and
    acquires warrants for their common shares. If we choose to
    participate in the capital infusion program of the U.S.
    Treasury, we will become subject to requirements and
    restrictions on our business. Issuing preferred shares and
    warrants could dilute the ownership interests of stockholders or
    affect our ability to raise capital in other transactions. We
    will also become subject to restrictions on the compensation
    that we can offer or pay to certain executive employees,
    including incentives or performance-based compensation. These
    restrictions could hinder or prevent us from attracting and
    retaining management with the talent and experience to manage
    our business effectively. Limits on our ability to deduct
    certain compensation paid to executive employees will also be
    imposed. The remaining $350 billion authorized by the EESA
    has been made available to the U.S. Treasury. Congress and
    the current Administration are considering the imposition of
    additional requirements and conditions on the use of these
    additional funds. See “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Extraordinary Market Conditions.”


 


    On December 5, 2008, MetLife, Inc. elected to continue to
    participate in the debt guarantee component of the FDIC Program.
    Under the terms of the FDIC Program, the FDIC will guarantee
    through June 2012 (or maturity, if earlier) the payment of
    certain newly-issued senior unsecured debt of MetLife, Inc. and
    any eligible affiliates. We also notified the FDIC that we have
    elected the option of excluding specified senior unsecured debt
    maturing after June 30, 2012, from the guarantee before
    reaching the limits on the amount of guaranteed debt under the
    FDIC Program ($398 million for MetLife, Inc. and
    $178 million for its affiliate, MetLife Bank, N.A., which
    may issue guaranteed debt under its limit, as well as unused
    amounts under MetLife, Inc.’s limit). In addition, we opted
    out of the component of the FDIC Program that guarantees
    non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts. We cannot
    predict how the markets may react to these elections or to any
    debt issued subject to the terms of the FDIC Program. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — Extraordinary Market
    Conditions.”



    
    33



Table of Contents





    The
    Impairment of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely
    Affect Us


 


    We have exposure to many different industries and
    counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with
    counterparties in the financial services industry, including
    brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge
    funds and other investment funds and other institutions. Many of
    these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of
    default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to
    secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when
    the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at
    prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or
    derivative exposure due to us. We also have exposure to these
    financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt
    instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities,
    derivative transactions and equity investments. Further,
    potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in
    response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking
    system and financial markets, such as investment,
    nationalization and other intervention, could negatively impact
    these instruments, securities, transactions and investments.
    There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to
    the carrying value of these assets would not materially and
    adversely affect our business and results of operations.


 



    Our
    Participation in a Securities Lending Program Subjects Us to
    Potential Liquidity and Other Risks


 


    We participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of
    securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and
    short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily
    major brokerage firms and commercial banks. We generally require
    collateral equal to 102% of the current estimated fair value of
    the loaned securities to be obtained at the inception of a loan,
    and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the
    duration of the loan. During the extraordinary market events
    occurring in the fourth quarter of 2008, we, in limited
    instances, accepted collateral less than 102% at the inception
    of certain loans, but never less than 100%, of the estimated
    fair value of such loaned securities. These loans involved
    U.S. Government Treasury Bills which we considered to have
    limited variation in their estimated fair value during the term
    of the loan. Securities with a cost or amortized cost of
    $20.8 billion and $41.1 billion and an estimated fair
    value of $22.9 billion and $42.1 billion were on loan
    under the program at December 31, 2008 and
    December 31, 2007, respectively. Securities loaned under
    such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. We
    were liable for cash collateral under our control of
    $23.3 billion and $43.3 billion at December 31,
    2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively.


 


    Returns of loaned securities by the third parties would require
    us to return the cash collateral associated with such loaned
    securities. In addition, in some cases, the maturity of the
    securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we
    have purchased with cash received from the third parties) may
    exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the
    estimated fair value may fall below the amount of cash received
    as collateral and invested. If we are required to return
    significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice and we
    are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we
    may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in
    securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a
    volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would
    have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or
    both. In addition, under stressful capital market and economic
    conditions, such as those conditions we have experienced
    recently, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further
    restrict our ability to sell securities.


 


    Of this $23.3 billion of cash collateral at
    December 31, 2008, $5.1 billion was on open terms,
    meaning that the related loaned security could be returned to us
    on the next business day requiring return of cash collateral and
    the following amounts are due within 30 days, and
    60 days — $14.7 billion and
    $3.5 billion, respectively. The estimated fair value of the
    securities related to the cash collateral on open at
    December 31, 2008 has been reduced to $5.0 billion
    from $15.8 billion as of November 30, 2008. Of the
    $5.0 billion of estimated fair value of the securities
    related to the cash collateral on open at December 31,
    2008, $4.4 billion were U.S. Treasury and agency
    securities which, if put to us, can be immediately sold to
    satisfy the cash requirements. The remainder of the securities
    on loan are primarily U.S. Treasury and agency securities,
    and very liquid residential mortgage-backed securities. Within
    the U.S. Treasury securities on loan, they are primarily
    holdings of on-the-run U.S. Treasury securities, the most
    liquid U.S. Treasury securities available. If these high
    quality securities that are on loan are put back to us, the
    proceeds from immediately selling these securities can be used
    to satisfy the related cash requirements. The estimated fair
    value of the reinvestment portfolio acquired with the cash
    collateral was $19.5 billion at December 31, 2008, and
    consisted principally of fixed maturity securities (including
    residential mortgage-backed, asset-backed, U.S. corporate
    and foreign corporate securities). If the on loan securities or
    the



    
    34



Table of Contents




    reinvestment portfolio become less liquid, we have the liquidity
    resources of most of our general account available to meet any
    potential cash demand when securities are put back to us. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations —
    Investments — Securities Lending.”


 


    If we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities
    over time, the amount of income generated by these activities
    will also likely decline.


 



    We Are
    Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk which
    May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial
    Condition and Liquidity, and Our Net Investment Income Can Vary
    from Period to Period


 


    We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets
    risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads,
    equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange
    rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in
    general, the performance of the specific obligors included in
    our portfolio and other factors outside our control. Our
    exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market
    price and cash flow variability associated with changes in
    interest rates. A rise in interest rates will increase the net
    unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment
    portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically
    within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our life
    insurance businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk.
    Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders
    may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate
    environment, requiring us to liquidate fixed income investments
    in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of
    the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance
    businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, and
    structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term interest
    rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging
    costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates may
    result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance
    liabilities, creating asset liability duration mismatches. Our
    investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive
    instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be
    adversely affected by changes in interest rates from
    governmental monetary policies, domestic and international
    economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our
    control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net
    unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment
    portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return
    on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates
    would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our fixed
    income investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on
    funds reinvested. Our mitigation efforts with respect to
    interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an
    investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a
    weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the
    duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. However,
    our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be
    inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate fixed income
    investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the
    liability. Although we take measures to manage the economic
    risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we
    may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed
    income investments relative to our liabilities. See also
    “— Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability.”


 


    Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price
    and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit
    spreads. A widening of credit spreads will increase the net
    unrealized loss position of the fixed income investment
    portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit based
    non-qualifying derivatives where we assume credit exposure, and,
    if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an
    extended period of time, would likely result in higher
    other-than-temporary impairments. Credit spread tightening will
    reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of
    fixed maturity securities. In addition, market volatility can
    make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading
    becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include
    assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to
    period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of operations or financial condition.
    Credit spreads on both corporate and structured securities
    widened during 2008, resulting in continuing depressed pricing.
    Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the
    U.S. real estate market and increased mortgage
    delinquencies, investor anxiety over the U.S. economy,
    rating agency downgrades of various structured products and
    financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment
    vehicles and monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging
    of financial institutions and hedge funds and a serious
    dislocation in the inter-bank market. If significant, continued
    volatility, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads
    and defaults, a lack of pricing transparency, market liquidity,
    declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of
    foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or
    in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of



    
    35



Table of Contents




    operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized
    losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized positions.


 


    Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for
    lower earnings associated with certain of our insurance
    businesses, such as variable annuities, where fee income is
    earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under
    management. In addition, certain of our annuity products offer
    guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit
    exposure should equity markets decline. We are also exposed to
    interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and
    expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with
    our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations.
    Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns
    likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of
    these plans.


 


    Our exposure to real estate risk relates to market price and
    cash flow variability associated with changes in real estate
    markets, default and bankruptcy rates, geographic and sector
    concentration as well as illiquidity of real estate investments.
    The current economic environment has led to significant
    weakening of the residential and commercial real estate markets,
    increases in foreclosures, bankruptcies and unsuccessful
    development projects as well as limited access to credit. Our
    real estate investments, including those held by joint ventures
    and real estate funds, may be negatively impacted by weakened
    local real estate conditions, such as oversupply, reduced demand
    and the availability and creditworthiness of current and
    prospective tenants and borrowers. In addition, real estate
    investments are relatively illiquid, and could limit our
    ability, and that of our joint venture partners and real estate
    fund managers, to sell assets to respond to changing economic,
    financial and investment conditions. Also, these factors could
    impact mortgage and consumer loan fundamentals which are further
    discussed under “— Defaults on Our Mortgage and
    Consumer Loans and Volatility in Performance May Adversely
    Affect Our Profitability.” These factors and others beyond
    our control could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash
    flows through net investment income, realized losses and
    impairments.


 


    Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under
    “— Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange
    Rates and Foreign Securities Markets Could Negatively Affect our
    Profitability.” Significant declines in equity prices,
    changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads,
    and changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
    operations, financial condition or liquidity. Changes in these
    factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect our net
    investment income in any period, and such changes can be
    substantial.


 


    We invest a portion of our invested assets in leveraged buy-out
    funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds reported
    within Other Limited Partnerships, many of which make private
    equity investments. The amount and timing of net investment
    income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result
    of the performance of the underlying investments, including
    private equity investments. The timing of distributions from the
    funds, which depends on particular events relating to the
    underlying investments, as well as the funds’ schedules for
    making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult
    to predict. As a result, the amount of net investment income
    that we record from these investments can vary substantially
    from quarter to quarter. Recent equity, real estate and credit
    market volatility have further reduced net investment income and
    related yields for these types of investments and we may
    continue to experience reduced net investment income due to
    continued volatility in the equity, real estate and credit
    markets in 2009. In addition, due to the normal lag in the
    preparation of and then receipt of periodic financial statements
    from other limited partnership interests and real estate joint
    ventures and funds, results from late 2008 during periods of
    volatility will be reported to us in 2009.


 



    Our
    Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to
    Declines in Value of Specified Assets May Adversely Affect Our
    Liquidity and Expose Us to Counterparty Credit
    Risk


 


    Many of our transactions with financial and other institutions
    specify the circumstances under which the parties are required
    to pledge collateral related to any decline in the value of the
    specified assets. In addition, under the terms of some of our
    transactions, we may be required to make payments to our
    counterparties related to any decline in the value of the
    specified assets. The amount of collateral we may be required to
    pledge and the payments we may be required to make under these
    agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could
    adversely affect our liquidity.



    
    36



Table of Contents




    In December 2007, we entered into an agreement with an
    unaffiliated financial institution that referenced
    $2.5 billion of
    35-year
    surplus notes issued by MetLife Reinsurance Company of
    Charleston (“MRC”). Based on the decline in the
    estimated fair value of MRC’s surplus notes, we have
    pledged collateral and made payments to the unaffiliated
    financial institution. We may in the future be required to
    pledge additional collateral or make additional payments to this
    unaffiliated financial institution based on any further declines
    in the estimated fair value of MRC’s surplus notes. Any
    collateral pledged by us under the agreement is required to be
    held in a segregated account and remains on our balance sheet.
    Any payments to the unaffiliated financial institution may
    reduce the amount under the agreement on which our interest
    payment was due but may not reduce the principal amount of the
    surplus notes. Such payments have been accounted for as a
    receivable and will not be realized until the termination of the
    agreement with the unaffiliated financial institution.
    Furthermore, with respect to any such payments, we have
    unsecured risk to the unaffiliated financial institution as
    these amounts are not required to be held in a third-party
    custodial account or segregated from the unaffiliated financial
    institution’s funds. Such collateral pledged and payments
    could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity
    and Capital Uses — Collateral Financing
    Arrangements” and Note 11 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Our
    Statutory Reserve Financings May be Subject to Cost Increases
    and New Financings May be Subject to Limited Market
    Capacity


 


    To support our level premium term life and universal life with
    secondary guarantees businesses and MLIC’s closed block, we
    currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a
    portion of our statutory reserve requirements. While we have
    financing facilities in place for our previously written
    business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to
    support writings through the end of 2009 or later, certain of
    these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the
    occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of MetLife or are
    subject to periodic repricing. Any resulting cost increases
    could negatively impact our financial results.


 


    Further, the capacity for these reserve funding structures
    available in the current marketplace is limited. If capacity
    continues to be limited for a prolonged period of time, our
    ability to obtain new funding for these structures may be
    hindered, and as a result, our ability to write additional
    business in a cost effective manner may be impacted.


 



    Defaults
    on Our Mortgage and Consumer Loans and Volatility in Performance
    May Adversely Affect Our Profitability


 


    Our mortgage and consumer loans face default risk and are
    principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and
    residential properties, as well as automobiles. The carrying
    value of mortgage and consumer loans is stated at original cost
    net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of
    discounts and valuation allowances, except for residential
    mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted for under the fair value
    option which are carried at estimated fair value, as determined
    on a recurring basis and certain commercial and residential
    mortgage loans carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair
    value, as determined on a nonrecurring basis. We establish
    valuation allowances for estimated impairments as of the balance
    sheet date. Such valuation allowances are based on the excess
    carrying value of the loan over the present value of expected
    future cash flows discounted at the loan’s original
    effective interest rate, the value of the loan’s collateral
    if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise
    collateral dependent, or the loan’s estimated fair value if
    the loan is held-for-sale. We also establish allowances for loan
    losses when a loss contingency exists for pools of loans with
    similar characteristics, such as mortgage loans based on similar
    property types or loan to value risk factors. At
    December 31, 2008, loans that were either delinquent or in
    the process of foreclosure totaled less than 0.5% of our
    mortgage and consumer loan investments. The performance of our
    mortgage and consumer loan investments, however, may fluctuate
    in the future. In addition, substantially all of our mortgage
    loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. An
    increase in the default rate of our mortgage and consumer loan
    investments could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations —
    Investments — Mortgage and Consumer Loans.”


 


    Further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage
    or consumer loans may have adverse effects on our investment
    portfolios and consequently on our consolidated results of
    operations or financial condition.



    
    37



Table of Contents




    While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly
    diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a
    negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector
    may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios
    to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Moreover,
    our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of
    related assets may be limited if other market participants are
    seeking to sell at the same time. In addition, legislative
    proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms
    of mortgage loans could be enacted. We cannot predict whether
    these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such
    proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business
    or investments.


 



    Our
    Investments are Reflected Within the Consolidated Financial
    Statements Utilizing Different Accounting Basis and Accordingly
    We May Not Have Recognized Differences, Which May Be
    Significant, Between Cost and Estimated Fair Value in our
    Consolidated Financial Statements


 


    Our principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity
    securities, trading securities, short-term investments, mortgage
    and consumer loans, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint
    ventures and other limited partnerships and other invested
    assets. The carrying value of such investments is as follows:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as
    available-for-sale, except for trading securities, and are
    reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized investment
    gains and losses on these securities are recorded as a separate
    component of other comprehensive income (loss), net of
    policyholder related amounts and deferred income taxes.




 



     
        • 

    
    Trading securities are recorded at estimated fair value with
    subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in net
    investment income.




 



     
        • 

    
    Short-term investments include investments with remaining
    maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months,
    at the time of acquisition and are stated at amortized cost,
    which approximates estimated fair value.




 



     
        • 

    
    The carrying value of mortgage and consumer loans is stated at
    original cost net of repayments, amortization of premiums,
    accretion of discounts and valuation allowances, except for
    residential mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted for under the
    fair value option which are carried at estimated fair value, as
    determined on a recurring basis and certain commercial and
    residential mortgage loans carried at the lower of cost or
    estimated fair value, as determined on a nonrecurring basis.




 



     
        • 

    
    Policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances.




 



     
        • 

    
    Real estate held-for-investment, including related improvements,
    is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation.




 



     
        • 

    
    Real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership
    interests in which we have more than a minor equity interest or
    more than a minor influence over the joint ventures or
    partnership’s operations, but where we do not have a
    controlling interest and are not the primary beneficiary, are
    carried using the equity method of accounting. We use the cost
    method of accounting for investments in real estate joint
    ventures and other limited partnership interests in which it has
    a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over the
    joint ventures or the partnership’s operations.




 



     
        • 

    
    Other invested assets consist principally of freestanding
    derivatives with positive estimated fair values and leveraged
    leases. Freestanding derivatives are carried at estimated fair
    value with changes in estimated fair value reflected in income
    for both non-qualifying derivatives and derivatives in fair
    value hedging relationships. Derivatives in cash flow hedging
    relationships are reflected as a separate component of other
    comprehensive income (loss). Leveraged leases are recorded net
    of non-recourse debt.





 


    Investments not carried at estimated fair value in our
    consolidated financial statements — principally,
    mortgage and consumer loans held-for-investment, policy loans,
    real estate, real estate joint ventures, other limited
    partnerships and leveraged leases — may have estimated
    fair values which are substantially higher or lower than the
    carrying value reflected in our consolidated financial
    statements. Each of such asset classes is regularly evaluated
    for impairment under the accounting guidance appropriate to the
    respective asset class.



    
    38



Table of Contents





    Our
    Valuation of Fixed Maturity, Equity and Trading Securities May
    Include Methodologies, Estimations and Assumptions Which Are
    Subject to Differing Interpretations and Could Result in Changes
    to Investment Valuations that May Materially Adversely Affect
    Our Results of Operations or Financial Condition


 


    Fixed maturity, equity, trading securities and short-term
    investments which are reported at estimated fair value on the
    consolidated balance sheet represent the majority of our total
    cash and invested assets. We have categorized these securities
    into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the
    inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value
    hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active
    markets for identical assets or liabilities
    (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable
    inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability’s
    classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the
    lowest level of significant input to its valuation.
    SFAS 157 defines the input levels as follows:


 




    
    
    



     
        Level 1 

    
    Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. We define active markets based on average
    trading volume for equity securities. The size of the bid/ask
    spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed
    maturity securities.




 



     
        Level 2 

    
    Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can
    be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data for substantially the full term of the assets or
    liabilities.




 



     
        Level 3 

    
    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or
    liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity’s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of fair value
    requires significant management judgment or estimation.





 


    At December 31, 2008, 11%, 80% and 9% of these securities
    represented Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3,
    respectively. The Level 1 securities primarily consist of
    certain U.S. Treasury and agency fixed maturity securities;
    exchange-traded common stock, and certain short-term
    investments. The Level 2 assets include fixed maturity
    securities priced principally through independent pricing
    services using observable inputs. These fixed maturity
    securities include most U.S. Treasury and agency securities
    as well as the majority of U.S. and foreign corporate
    securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial
    mortgage-backed securities, state and political subdivision
    securities, foreign government securities, and asset-backed
    securities. Equity securities classified as Level 2
    primarily consist principally of non-redeemable preferred
    securities and certain equity securities where market quotes are
    available but are not considered actively traded and are priced
    by independent pricing services. Management reviews the
    valuation methodologies used by the independent pricing services
    on an ongoing basis and ensures that any changes to valuation
    methodologies are justified. Level 3 assets include fixed
    maturity securities priced principally through independent
    non-binding broker quotations or market standard valuation
    methodologies using inputs that are not market observable or
    cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable
    market data. This level consists of less liquid fixed maturity
    securities with very limited trading activity or where less
    price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation
    methodologies including: U.S. and foreign corporate
    securities — including below investment grade private
    placements; residential mortgage-backed securities; and asset
    backed securities — including all of those supported
    by sub-prime mortgage loans. Equity securities classified as
    Level 3 securities consist principally of common stock of
    privately held companies and non-redeemable preferred securities
    where there has been very limited trading activity or where less
    price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation.
    See Note 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for the estimated fair values of these assets and
    liabilities by hierarchy level.


 


    Prices provided by independent pricing services and independent
    non-binding broker quotations can vary widely even for the same
    security.



    
    39



Table of Contents




    The determination of estimated fair values by management in the
    absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation
    methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable;
    and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the
    circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific
    point in time, based on available market information and
    judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of
    the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the
    credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors
    considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate,
    maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund
    requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and
    quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of
    different methodologies and assumptions may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts.


 


    During periods of market disruption including periods of
    significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening
    credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value
    certain of our securities, for example Alt-A and sub-prime
    mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed
    securities, if trading becomes less frequent
    and/or
    market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset
    classes that were in active markets with significant observable
    data that become illiquid due to the current financial
    environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to
    Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management
    judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions
    that are less observable or require greater estimation as well
    as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require
    greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may be
    greater or less than the value at which the investments may be
    ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented
    credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the
    valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated
    financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value
    could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
    condition.


 



    Some
    of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid and Are in Asset
    Classes that Have Been Experiencing Significant Market Valuation
    Fluctuations


 


    We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as
    privately placed fixed maturity securities; mortgage and
    consumer loans; policy loans and leveraged leases; equity real
    estate, including real estate joint ventures; and other limited
    partnership interests. These asset classes represented 33.7% of
    the carrying value of our total cash and invested assets at
    December 31, 2008. Even some of our very high quality
    assets have been more illiquid as a result of the recent
    challenging market conditions.


 


    If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in
    excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or
    return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio,
    derivatives transactions or securities lending activities, we
    may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely
    manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would
    have been able to realize, or both.


 


    The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of
    investments, our investments in the asset classes described
    above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset
    classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market
    price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our
    assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we
    will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have
    recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly
    lower prices.


 



    The
    Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken
    on Our Investments is Highly Subjective and Could Materially
    Impact Our Results of Operations or Financial
    Position


 


    The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments
    varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic
    evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated
    with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and
    assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
    becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly
    and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations
    as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that
    our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments
    taken and allowances reflected in our consolidated financial
    statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be
    taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical
    trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.


 


    For example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity
    securities is adjusted for impairments in value deemed to be
    other-than-temporary in the period in which the determination is
    made. The assessment of whether impairments



    
    40



Table of Contents




    have occurred is based on management’s
    case-by-case
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The review of our fixed maturity and
    equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the
    total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities:
    (i) securities where the estimated fair value has declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%;
    (ii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for
    less than six months; and (iii) securities where the
    estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.


 


    Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors
    about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in
    evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value
    of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term
    recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the
    security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of
    the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations in
    the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited
    to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the
    market value has been below cost or amortized cost;
    (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the
    issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties;
    (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry
    sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in
    certain economically depressed geographic locations;
    (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the
    issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a
    catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources;
    (vi) our ability and intent to hold the security for a
    period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value
    to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost;
    (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and
    (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations
    and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.


 



    Gross
    Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities May be
    Realized or Result in Future Impairments, Resulting in a
    Reduction in Our Net Income


 


    Fixed maturity and equity securities classified as
    available-for-sale, except trading securities, are reported at
    their estimated fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on
    available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of
    other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded
    from net income. Our gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity
    and equity securities at December 31, 2008 were
    $29.8 billion. The portion of the $29.8 billion of
    gross unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities
    where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below
    amortized cost or cost by 20% or more for six months or greater
    was $4.0 billion at December 31, 2008. The accumulated
    change in estimated fair value of these available-for-sale
    securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is
    realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the
    decline in estimated fair value is determined to be
    other-than-temporary and an impairment charge is taken. Realized
    losses or impairments may have a material adverse affect on our
    net income in a particular quarterly or annual period.


 



    Changes
    in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our
    Profitability


 


    Some of our products, principally traditional whole life
    insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed investment contracts
    (“GICs”), expose us to the risk that changes in
    interest rates will reduce our “spread,” or the
    difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under
    the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we
    are able to earn on general account investments intended to
    support obligations under the contracts. Our spread is a key
    component of our net income.


 


    As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be
    forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured
    or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our
    investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the
    fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and
    mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with
    greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates,
    which exacerbates this risk. Lowering interest crediting rates
    can help offset decreases in investment margins on some
    products. However, our ability to lower these rates could be
    limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates
    and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset
    yields. As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially
    become negative. Our expectation for future spreads is an
    important component in the amortization of DAC and VOBA and
    significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate
    amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected
    reporting period. In addition, during periods of declining
    interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be
    relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting
    in increased premium payments on products



    
    41



Table of Contents




    with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and
    increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance
    policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period
    when our new investments carry lower returns. A decline in
    market interest rates could also reduce our return on
    investments that do not support particular policy obligations.
    Accordingly, declining interest rates may materially adversely
    affect our results of operations, financial position and cash
    flows and significantly reduce our profitability.


 


    The sufficiency of our reserves in Taiwan is highly sensitive to
    interest rates and other related assumptions. This is due to the
    sustained low interest rate environment in Taiwan coupled with
    long-term interest rate guarantees of approximately 6% embedded
    in the life and health contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack
    of availability of long-duration assets in the Taiwanese capital
    markets to match such long-duration liabilities. The key
    assumptions utilized include that current Taiwan government bond
    yield rates increase from current levels of 1.6% to 2.7% over
    the next ten years, mortality and morbidity levels remain
    consistent with recent experience and that U.S. dollar
    assets make up 35% of total assets backing reserves. Current
    reserve adequacy analysis shows that provisions are adequate;
    however, adverse changes in key assumptions for interest rates,
    exchange rates, and mortality and morbidity levels or lapse
    rates could lead to a need to strengthen reserves and therefore
    for additional capital.


 


    Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect
    our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest
    rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the
    assets in MetLife’s general account with higher yielding
    assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to
    keep interest sensitive products competitive. We, therefore, may
    have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or
    face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts
    and related assets. In addition, policy loans, surrenders and
    withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek
    investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates
    rise. This process may result in cash outflows requiring that we
    sell invested assets at a time when the prices of those assets
    are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates,
    which may result in realized investment losses. Unanticipated
    withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the
    amortization of DAC and VOBA, which would increase our current
    expenses and reduce net income. An increase in market interest
    rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of
    our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the
    estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that
    comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio.


 



    Consolidation
    of Distributors of Insurance Products May Adversely Affect the
    Insurance Industry and the Profitability of Our
    Business


 


    The insurance industry distributes many of its individual
    products through other financial institutions such as banks and
    broker-dealers. As capital, credit and equity markets continue
    to experience volatility, bank and broker-dealer consolidation
    activity may increase and negatively impact the industry’s
    sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for
    access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses
    and impair our ability to market insurance products to our
    current customer base or to expand our customer base.


 



    Industry
    Trends Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our
    Businesses


 


    Our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of
    trends that affect the insurance industry, including intense
    competition with respect to product features, price,
    distribution capability, customer service and information
    technology. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Industry Trends.” The impact on our business and on the
    life insurance industry generally of the volatility and
    instability of the financial markets is difficult to predict,
    and our business plans, financial condition and results of
    operations may be negatively impacted or affected in other
    unexpected ways. In addition, the life insurance industry is
    subject to state regulation, and, as complex products are
    introduced, regulators may refine capital requirements and
    introduce new reserving standards. Furthermore, regulators have
    undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets
    or products, including equity-indexed annuities, variable
    annuities and group products. The current market environment may
    also lead to changes in regulation that may benefit or
    disadvantage us relative to some of our competitors. See
    “— Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability” and
    “Business — Competition.”



    
    42



Table of Contents





    A
    Decline in Equity Markets or an Increase in Volatility in Equity
    Markets May Adversely Affect Sales of Our Investment Products
    and Our Profitability


 


    Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations in three principal ways.


 


    First, equity market downturns and volatility may discourage
    purchases of separate account products, such as variable
    annuities and variable life insurance that have underlying
    mutual funds with returns linked to the performance of the
    equity markets and may cause some of our existing customers to
    withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products.


 


    Second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a
    material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our
    savings and investment products and services. Because these
    products and services depend on fees related primarily to the
    value of assets under management, a decline in the equity
    markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the
    investment assets we manage. The retail annuity business in
    particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a
    sustained weakness in the equity markets will decrease revenues
    and earnings in variable annuity products.


 


    Third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products
    that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the
    equity markets. For example, we offer variable annuity products
    with guaranteed features, such as death benefits, withdrawal
    benefits, and minimum accumulation and income benefits. In
    volatile or declining equity market conditions, we may need to
    increase liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholder
    account balances, negatively affecting net income.


 



    If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well, We May Be Required to Recognize
    an Impairment of Our Goodwill or Other Long-Lived Assets or to
    Establish a Valuation Allowance Against the Deferred Income Tax
    Asset, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or
    Financial Condition


 


    Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire
    subsidiaries and other businesses over the estimated fair value
    of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill
    at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is
    performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the
    “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The
    reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level
    below that operating segment if discrete financial information
    is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level.
    The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by
    the performance of the business. The performance of our
    businesses may be adversely impacted by prolonged market
    declines. If it is determined that the goodwill has been
    impaired, MetLife must write down the goodwill by the amount of
    the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such
    write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations or financial position. See
    “— Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates —
    Goodwill.”


 


    Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also
    require impairment testing to determine whether changes in
    circumstances indicate that MetLife will be unable to recover
    the carrying amount of the asset group through future operations
    of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the
    value of those assets. Such write downs could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
    position.


 


    Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences
    between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities.
    Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to
    determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s
    determination include the performance of the business including
    the ability to generate future taxable income. If based on
    available information, it is more likely than not that the
    deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation
    allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net
    income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations or financial position.


 


    Further or continued deterioration of financial market
    conditions could result in a decrease in the expected future
    earnings of our reporting units, which could lead to an
    impairment of some or all of the goodwill associated with them
    in future periods. Such deterioration could also result in the
    impairment of long-lived assets and the establishment of a
    valuation allowance on our deferred income tax assets.



    
    43



Table of Contents





    Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability


 


    Our business segments are subject to intense competition. We
    believe that this competition is based on a number of factors,
    including service, product features, scale, price, financial
    strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings,
    e-business
    capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
    number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial
    services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset
    managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group
    customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and
    investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader
    array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with
    respect to other insurers, have higher claims paying ability
    ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with
    which to compete. National banks, which may sell annuity
    products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have
    pre-existing customer bases for financial services products.


 


    Many of our insurance products, particularly those offered by
    our Institutional segment, are underwritten annually, and,
    accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able
    to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than
    renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a
    result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other
    products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.


 


    In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage
    businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually
    attract new entrants. Many of our competitors in these
    businesses offer a broader array of investment products and
    services and are better known than we are as sellers of
    annuities and other investment products. See
    “Business — Competition.”


 


    Finally, the choices made by the U.S. Treasury in the
    administration of EESA and in its distribution of amounts
    available thereunder could have the effect of supporting some
    parts of the financial system more than others. See
    ‘‘— There Can be No Assurance that Actions
    of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
    and Other Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing the Financial Markets Will Achieve the Intended
    Effect.”


 



    We May
    be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our
    Products


 


    We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with
    demonstrated ability. In addition, there is competition for
    representatives with other types of financial services firms,
    such as independent broker-dealers. We compete with other
    insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our
    financial position, support services and compensation and
    product features. We continue to undertake several initiatives
    to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the
    efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
    provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in
    attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual
    insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of
    operations and financial condition could be materially adversely
    affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining
    agents. See “Business — Competition.”


 



    Differences
    Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving
    Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial
    Results


 


    Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our
    actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we
    use in setting prices for our products and establishing
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Our
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are
    established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will
    need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance
    and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on
    many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to
    be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of
    the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of
    benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the
    assets we purchase with the premiums we receive. We establish
    liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based
    on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities
    incurred. To the extent that actual claims experience is less
    favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in
    establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase
    our liabilities.


 


    Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for
    future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely
    the amounts which we will



    
    44



Table of Contents




    ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. Such amounts may vary
    from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may
    not occur until well into the future. We evaluate our
    liabilities periodically based on changes in the assumptions
    used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual
    experience. We charge or credit changes in our liabilities to
    expenses in the period the liabilities are established or
    re-estimated. If the liabilities originally established for
    future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them.
    Such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.


 



    Our
    Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to
    Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Business


 


    Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and
    procedures to record properly and verify a large number of
    transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources
    to develop our risk management policies and procedures and
    expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our
    policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. Many of our
    methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use
    of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on
    historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully
    predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater
    than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management
    methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding
    markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that
    is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This
    information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or
    properly evaluated. See “Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk.”


 



    Change
    in Our Discount Rate, Expected Rate of Return and Expected
    Compensation Increase Assumptions for Our Pension and Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plans May Result in Increased Expenses
    and Reduce Our Profitability


 


    We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan
    costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience.
    These assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount
    rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected
    increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation.
    Changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses
    and reduce our profitability. See “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit
    Plans” and Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for details on how changes in these
    assumptions would affect plan costs.


 



    Catastrophes
    May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and
    Reinsurance Availability


 


    Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of
    catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that
    causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics
    have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the
    likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be
    predicted. The effectiveness of external parties, including
    governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating
    the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material
    impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group insurance
    operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one
    or more of our group insurance customers could cause a
    significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These
    events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could
    also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.


 


    Our Auto & Home business has experienced, and will
    likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may
    have a material adverse impact on the business, results of
    operations and financial condition of the Auto & Home
    segment. Although Auto & Home makes every effort to
    manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility
    management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not
    eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various
    events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms,
    earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather
    (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards),
    fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks.
    Historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related
    claims have related to homeowners coverages. However,
    catastrophes may also affect other Auto & Home
    coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence,
    timing and severity of catastrophes. In addition, changing
    climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be
    increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and
    severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes.



    
    45



Table of Contents




    Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our
    homeowners coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include
    coastal sections of the northeastern United States (including
    lower New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts),
    the Gulf Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and
    Texas) and Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure,
    primarily along the New Madrid fault line in the central United
    States and in the Pacific Northwest.


 


    The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both
    the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the
    event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are
    restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics,
    hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce
    significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are
    heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made
    catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our
    financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could
    materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial
    condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial
    condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability
    of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new
    business could also be affected. It is possible that increases
    in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other
    factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could
    increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the
    future.


 


    Most of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries
    are admitted to transact business require life and property and
    casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to
    participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay
    contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued
    by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations
    levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member
    insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate
    share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of
    business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is
    engaged. In addition, certain states have government owned or
    controlled organizations providing life and property and
    casualty insurance to their citizens. The activities of such
    organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy
    of guaranty fund assessments. Many of these organizations also
    have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the
    guaranty associations described above. Some states permit member
    insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial
    premium tax offsets. See “Business —
    Regulation — Insurance Regulation — Guaranty
    Associations and Similar Arrangements.”


 


    While in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied
    against MetLife have not been material, it is possible that a
    large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds
    inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional
    amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial
    condition or results of operations in a particular period. We
    have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that
    we consider adequate for assessments with respect to insurers
    that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings, but
    additional liabilities may be necessary. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Insolvency
    Assessments.”


 


    Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we
    establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only
    after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We
    cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will
    be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to
    time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of
    limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as
    legislation restricting an insurer’s ability to withdraw
    from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our
    exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed
    by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or
    multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our
    property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in
    part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may
    not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future.
    See “— Reinsurance May Not Be Available,
    Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses.”


 



    A
    Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or
    Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations


 


    Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized
    Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSROs”) publish as
    indicators of an insurance company’s ability to meet
    contractholder and policyholder



    
    46



Table of Contents




    obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in
    our products, our ability to market our products and our
    competitive position. See “Business — Company
    Ratings — Insurer Financial Strength Ratings.”


 


    Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations in many ways, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other
    investment products;




 



     
        • 

    
    adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and
    independent sales intermediaries;




 



     
        • 

    
    materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders
    and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and
    services to remain competitive; and




 



     
        • 

    
    adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at
    reasonable prices or at all.





 


    In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance
    subsidiaries, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings for
    MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries. Credit ratings
    are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms
    of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors
    in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain
    types of liquidity. See “Business — Company
    Ratings — Credit Ratings.” Downgrades in our
    credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations in many ways,
    including adversely limiting our access to capital markets,
    potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to
    post collateral. A two-notch decrease in the financial strength
    ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries would require us
    to post less than $200 million of collateral in connection
    with derivative collateral arrangements, to which we are a party
    and would have allowed holders of $500 million aggregate
    account value of our funding agreements to terminate such
    funding agreements on 90 days’ notice.


 


    In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many
    financial institutions, including our competitors in the
    insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs
    will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such
    institutions, will increase the frequency and scope of their
    credit reviews, will request additional information from the
    companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and
    other requirements employed in the NRSRO models for maintenance
    of certain ratings levels. Rating agencies use an “outlook
    statement” of “positive,” “stable,”
    “negative” or “developing” to indicate a
    medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if
    continued, may lead to a ratings change. A rating may have a
    “stable” outlook to indicate that the rating is not
    expected to change; however, a “stable” rating does
    not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time,
    without notice. Certain rating agencies have recently revised
    their outlook on the U.S. life insurance sector, as well as
    MetLife, Inc.’s and certain of its subsidiaries’
    insurer financial strength and credit ratings, from
    “stable” to “negative.” Furthermore, the
    insurer financial strength and credit ratings of MetLife, Inc.
    and certain of its subsidiaries have also been recently
    downgraded. See “Business — Company
    Ratings — Rating Actions.”


 


    We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what
    actions we may take in response to the actions of rating
    agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with
    other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings
    could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any
    NRSRO.


 



    An
    Inability to Access Our Credit Facilities Could Result in a
    Reduction in Our Liquidity and Lead to Downgrades in Our Credit
    and Financial Strength Ratings


 


    We have a $2.85 billion five-year revolving credit facility
    that matures in June 2012, as well as other facilities which we
    enter into in the ordinary course of business. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — Liquidity and Capital
    Sources — Credit Facilities” and
    “— Committed Facilities.”


 


    We rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of
    liquidity. The availability of these facilities could be
    critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our
    ability to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly
    in the current market when alternative sources of credit are
    tight. The credit facilities contain certain administrative,
    reporting, legal and financial covenants. We must comply with
    certain covenants under our credit



    
    47



Table of Contents




    facilities (including the $2.85 billion five-year revolving
    credit facility) that require us to maintain a specified minimum
    consolidated net worth.


 


    Our right to make borrowings under these facilities is subject
    to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including
    our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow is
    also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the
    lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. Our
    failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or
    fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders
    to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency,
    illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under
    the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to
    access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently,
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Products that Protect Policyholders
    Against Significant Downturns in Equity Markets May Decrease Our
    Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results if Hedging or
    Risk Management Strategies Prove Ineffective, Result in Higher
    Hedging Costs, Expose Us to Increased Counterparty Risk and
    Result in Our Own Credit Exposure


 


    Certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed
    benefit riders. These include guaranteed death benefits,
    guaranteed withdrawal benefits, lifetime withdrawal guarantees,
    guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum
    income benefit riders. Periods of significant and sustained
    downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or
    reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the
    valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account
    balance liabilities associated with such products, resulting in
    a reduction to net income. We use reinsurance in combination
    with derivative instruments to mitigate the liability exposure
    and the volatility of net income associated with these
    liabilities, and while we believe that these and other actions
    have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, we remain
    liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers
    or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. In
    addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other
    management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated
    policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market
    events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk
    management techniques employed. These, individually or
    collectively, may have a material adverse effect on net income,
    financial condition or liquidity. We are also subject to the
    risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits
    increases, resulting in a reduction to net income. We also must
    consider our own credit standing, which is not hedged, in the
    valuation of certain of these liabilities. A decrease in our own
    credit spread could cause the value of these liabilities to
    increase, resulting in a reduction to net income.


 



    If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus
    Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC and VOBA Vary
    Significantly, We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization
    and/or Impair the DAC and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our
    Results of Operations or Financial Condition


 


    We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
    renewal business. Those costs that vary with and are primarily
    related to the production of new and renewal business are
    deferred and referred to as DAC. The recovery of DAC is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    The amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally
    on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to
    policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest
    crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to
    administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance
    counterparties and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, we anticipate that investment
    returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of
    such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into
    management’s estimates of gross profits or margins, which
    generally are used to amortize such costs. If the estimates of
    gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortization
    of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual
    experience is known and would result in a charge to income.
    Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in
    an acceleration of amortization of the DAC related to variable
    annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a
    charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations or financial condition.


 


    VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in
    a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion
    of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the
    right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and
    annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. VOBA is
    based on actuarially determined



    
    48



Table of Contents




    projections. Actual experience may vary from the projections.
    Revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed
    in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and
    could result in an impairment and a charge to income. Also, as
    VOBA is amortized similarly to DAC, an acceleration of the
    amortization of VOBA would occur if the estimates of gross
    profits or margins were overstated. Accordingly, the
    amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in
    which the actual experience is known and would result in a
    charge to net income. Significant or sustained equity market
    declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the
    VOBA related to variable annuity and variable universal life
    contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations or financial condition.


 


    See “— Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired”
    for further consideration of DAC and VOBA and the impact of
    current market events during 2008.


 



    Defaults,
    Downgrades or Other Events Impairing the Value of Our Fixed
    Maturity Securities Portfolio May Reduce Our
    Earnings


 


    We are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of
    fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and
    interest payments they owe us. We are also subject to the risk
    that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities,
    including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal
    and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows
    paid to our investment. At December 31, 2008, the fixed
    maturity securities of $188.3 billion in our investment
    portfolio represented 58.4% of our total cash and invested
    assets. The occurrence of a major economic downturn (such as the
    current downturn in the economy), acts of corporate malfeasance,
    widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the
    issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities
    could cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio
    and our net income to decline and the default rate of the fixed
    maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A
    ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular
    securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit
    quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities
    in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect.
    With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or
    guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a ratings
    downgrade affecting a loan-backed security we hold could
    indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated.
    Any event reducing the value of these securities other than on a
    temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition. Levels
    of write down or impairment are impacted by our assessment of
    the intent and ability to hold securities which have declined in
    value until recovery. If we determine to reposition or realign
    portions of the portfolio so as not to hold certain securities
    in an unrealized loss position to recovery, then we will incur
    an other than temporary impairment charge in the period that the
    decision was made not to hold the security to recovery. In
    addition, in January, 2009, Moody’s revised its loss
    projections for U.S. Alt-A residential mortgage-backed
    securities (RMBS), and it is anticipated that Moody’s will
    be downgrading virtually all 2006 and 2007 Alt-A securities to
    below investment grade, which will increase the percentage of
    our portfolio that will be rated below investment grade.


 



    Fluctuations
    in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates and Foreign Securities
    Markets Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability


 


    We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting
    from our holdings of
    non-U.S. dollar
    denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and
    net income from foreign operations. These risks relate to
    potential decreases in value and income resulting from a
    strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the
    U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign
    currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the
    value of our
    non-U.S. dollar
    denominated investments and our investments in foreign
    subsidiaries. Although we use foreign currency swaps and forward
    contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we
    cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or
    that our counterparties will perform their obligations. See
    “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk.”


 


    From time to time, various emerging market countries have
    experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including
    significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to
    foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in
    emerging markets.



    
    49



Table of Contents




    We have matched substantially all of our foreign currency
    liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with assets denominated
    in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of
    currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results;
    however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of
    these results into our consolidated financial statements.
    Although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign
    currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely
    affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the
    failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See
    “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk.”


 



    Our
    International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and
    Other Risks that Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability


 


    Our international operations face political, legal, operational
    and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations.
    We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization
    or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls
    or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds
    from these operations out of the countries in which they operate
    or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or
    other currencies. Some of our foreign insurance operations are,
    and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where
    these risks are heightened. See “Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” In addition, we
    rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter
    labor problems resulting from workers’ associations and
    trade unions in some countries. In Japan, China and India we
    operate with local business partners with the resulting risk of
    managing partner relationships to the business objectives. If
    our business model is not successful in a particular country, we
    may lose all or most of our investment in building and training
    the sales force in that country.


 


    We are currently planning to expand our international operations
    in markets where we operate and in selected new markets. This
    may require considerable management time, as well as
    start-up
    expenses for market development before any significant revenues
    and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets
    may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in
    existing markets may be affected by local economic and market
    conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not
    achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations
    may be negatively impacted.


 


    In recent years, the operating environment in Argentina has been
    very challenging. In Argentina, we are principally engaged in
    the pension business. In December 2008, the Argentine government
    nationalized private pensions and seized the pension funds’
    investments, eliminating the private pensions business in
    Argentina. As a result, we will experience a reduction in the
    operation’s future revenues and cash flows. The Argentine
    government now controls all assets which previously were managed
    by our Argentine pension operations. Further governmental or
    legal actions related to our operations in Argentina could
    negatively impact our operations in Argentina and result in
    future losses.


 


    See also “— Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability” regarding the
    impact of low interest rates on our Taiwanese operations.


 



    Reinsurance
    May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us
    Against Losses


 


    As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase
    reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
    business segments. See “Business — Reinsurance
    Activity.” While reinsurance agreements generally bind the
    reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally
    fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine
    the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new
    business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for
    business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any
    increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we
    may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or
    may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable
    terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future
    business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect
    to those policies we issue.



    
    50



Table of Contents





    If the
    Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification
    Arrangements or to the Derivative Instruments We Use to Hedge
    Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed
    to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations


 


    We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments
    to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general,
    reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our
    policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.
    Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers
    and indemnitors. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers
    will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that
    indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or
    that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A
    reinsurer’s or indemnitor’s insolvency, inability or
    unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance
    agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various
    business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative
    instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit
    default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations —
    Investments.” If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor
    their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges
    of the related risk will be ineffective. This is a more
    pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by
    financial institutions. Such failure could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Our
    Insurance Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth


 


    Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of
    insurance and other laws and regulations. See
    “Business — Regulation — Insurance
    Regulation.” State insurance laws regulate most aspects of
    our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance
    subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the
    states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they
    are licensed. Our
    non-U.S. insurance
    operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory
    authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and
    operate.


 


    State laws in the United States grant insurance regulatory
    authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among
    other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    licensing companies and agents to transact business;




 



     
        • 

    
    calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with
    statutory requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    mandating certain insurance benefits;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating certain premium rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    reviewing and approving policy forms;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through
    the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices,
    distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating advertising;




 



     
        • 

    
    protecting privacy;




 



     
        • 

    
    establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and
    solvency standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and
    minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance
    policies and annuity contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    approving changes in control of insurance companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions
    between affiliates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.






    
    51



Table of Contents



 


    State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess
    insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
    policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an
    assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have
    currently established for these potential liabilities may not be
    adequate. See “Business — Regulation —
    Insurance Regulation — Guaranty Associations and
    Similar Arrangements.”


 


    State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies
    and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    The NAIC and several states’ legislatures have considered
    the need for regulations
    and/or laws
    to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of
    investigations of broker compensation in the State of New York
    and in other jurisdictions. The NAIC adopted a Compensation
    Disclosure Amendment to its Producers Licensing Model Act which,
    if adopted by the states, would require disclosure by agents or
    brokers to customers that insurers will compensate such agents
    or brokers for the placement of insurance and documented
    acknowledgement of this arrangement in cases where the customer
    also compensates the agent or broker. Several states have
    enacted laws similar to the NAIC amendment. We cannot predict
    how many states may promulgate the NAIC amendment or alternative
    regulations or the extent to which these regulations may have a
    material adverse impact on our business.


 


    Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly
    regulate the business of insurance. However, federal legislation
    and administrative policies in several areas can significantly
    and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include
    financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension
    regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In
    addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of
    insurance have been proposed. In view of recent events involving
    certain financial institutions and the financial markets, it is
    possible that the U.S. federal government will heighten its
    oversight of insurers such as us, including possibly through a
    federal system of insurance regulation
    and/or that
    the oversight responsibilities and mandates of existing or newly
    created regulatory bodies could change. We cannot predict
    whether these or other proposals will be adopted, or what
    impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could
    have on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations.


 


    Our international operations are subject to regulation in the
    jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is
    similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. Many of
    our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate
    in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that
    affect their operations also may affect our business
    relationships with them and their ability to purchase or
    distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. See “— Our International
    Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks
    that Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability.”


 


    Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time
    consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
    regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect
    compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations
    or audits of MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiaries that could, if
    determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We cannot
    predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that
    could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the
    interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and
    statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in
    areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements.


 


    We are also subject to other regulations, including banking
    regulations, and may in the future become subject to additional
    regulations. See “Business — Regulation.”



    
    52



Table of Contents





    Litigation
    and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our
    Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and
    Harm to Our Reputation


 


    We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory
    investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating
    our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our
    pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings
    specific to us and others generally applicable to business
    practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection
    with our insurance operations, plaintiffs’ lawyers may
    bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits
    alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or
    underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product
    design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits
    and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers.
    Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may
    seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and
    treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any
    probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for
    substantial periods of time. See “Legal Proceedings”
    and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.


 


    Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with
    any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties can include how
    fact finders will view individually and in their totality
    documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of
    witnesses’ testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.


 


    On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information
    with respect to litigation and contingencies to be reflected in
    our consolidated financial statements. The review includes
    senior legal and financial personnel. Unless stated elsewhere
    herein, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for
    particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a
    reasonable degree of certainty. See “Legal
    Proceedings” and Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. Liabilities are established
    when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount
    of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
    established for a number of matters noted in “Legal
    Proceedings” and Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. It is possible that some of
    the matters could require us to pay damages or make other
    expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be
    estimated at December 31, 2008.


 


    MLIC and MetLife, Inc. have been named as defendants in several
    lawsuits brought in connection with MLIC’s demutualization
    in 2000. Although most of these lawsuits have been dismissed,
    two have been certified as nationwide class action lawsuits.
    MLIC and its affiliates also are currently defendants in
    numerous lawsuits including class action lawsuits, alleging
    improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance
    policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products.


 


    In addition, MLIC is a defendant in a large number of lawsuits
    seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries
    allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. These lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC’s employees during the
    period from the 1920’s through approximately the
    1950’s and have alleged that MLIC learned or should have
    learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among
    other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those
    health risks. Additional litigation relating to these matters
    may be commenced in the future. The ability of MLIC to estimate
    its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable
    uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be
    dynamic and subject to change. The availability of reliable data
    is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty the
    numerous variables that can affect liability estimates,
    including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve
    claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and
    future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a
    particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the
    jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of
    tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow
    plaintiffs to pursue claims against MLIC when exposure took
    place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known,
    and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their
    amounts. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the
    aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the
    total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain
    and may vary significantly from year to year. Accordingly, it is
    reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims
    may be materially greater than



    
    53



Table of Contents




    the liability recorded by us in our consolidated financial
    statements and that future charges to income may be necessary.
    The potential future charges could be material in the particular
    quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded.


 


    We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as
    information requests, subpoenas and books and record
    examinations, from state and federal regulators and other
    authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant
    regulatory action against us could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the
    litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer
    significant reputational harm, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations, including our ability to attract new customers,
    retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees.
    Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the
    price of stocks of companies in our industry.


 


    We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation,
    unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and
    other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated
    claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion,
    investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future,
    and we could become subject to further investigations and have
    lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In
    addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting
    investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions
    and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    Changes
    in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board or Other Standard-Setting Bodies May Adversely
    Affect Our Financial Statements


 


    Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP,
    which is periodically revised
    and/or
    expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to
    adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized
    authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting
    standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets
    or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to
    financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to
    issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of
    accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet
    implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on
    Form 10-K
    and
    Form 10-Q.
    An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such
    proposals are subject to change through the exposure process
    and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot
    be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting
    standards we are required to adopt could change the current
    accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial
    statements and that such changes could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Further, the federal government, under the EESA, conducted an
    investigation of fair value accounting during the fourth quarter
    of 2008 and has granted the SEC the authority to suspend fair
    value accounting for any registrant or group of registrants at
    its discretion. The impact of such actions on registrants who
    apply fair value accounting cannot be readily determined at this
    time; however, actions taken by the federal government could
    have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and
    results of operations of companies, including ours, that apply
    fair value accounting.


 



    Changes
    in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations May
    Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability


 


    Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to
    insurance products that are also “securities,”
    including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance
    policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiaries
    and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance
    contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under
    these securities laws. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity
    contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate
    accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered
    separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of
    which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a
    registered investment company under the Investment Company Act.
    In addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life
    insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are
    registered with the SEC under the Securities Act. Other
    subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as



    
    54



Table of Contents




    broker-dealers under the Exchange Act, and are members of, and
    subject to, regulation by FINRA. Further, some of our
    subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC
    under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and are also
    registered as investment advisers in various states, as
    applicable.


 


    Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to
    protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect
    investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and
    regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking
    and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict
    the conduct of business for failure to comply with the
    securities laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or
    regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. In particular, changes in the regulations
    governing the registration and distribution of variable
    insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards
    for suitability of variable annuity contracts or variable life
    insurance policies, could have such a material adverse effect.


 



    Changes
    in Tax Laws, Tax Regulations, or Interpretations of Such Laws or
    Regulations Could Increase Our Corporate Taxes; Changes in Tax
    Laws Could Make Some of Our Products Less Attractive to
    Consumers


 


    Changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such
    laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes. Changes
    in corporate tax rates could affect the value of deferred tax
    assets and deferred tax liabilities. Furthermore, the value of
    deferred tax assets could be impacted by future earnings levels.


 


    Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less
    attractive to consumers. A shift away from life insurance and
    annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce
    our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets
    upon which we earn investment income.


 


    We cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting
    corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the
    specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at
    all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    We May
    Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets
    Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed
    Block Policies


 


    MLIC’s plan of reorganization, as amended (the
    “Plan”), required that we establish and operate an
    accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that
    the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own
    certain individual insurance policies of MLIC are met. See
    Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. We allocated assets to the closed block in an amount
    that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated
    revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are
    reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and
    liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not
    limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain
    expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the
    policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the
    experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate
    adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. We cannot
    provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows
    generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue
    from the policies included in the closed block will be
    sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these
    policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the
    shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for
    competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments
    with our general account funds.


 


    The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of those
    policies. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are
    greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block
    was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies
    included in the closed block may be greater than they would be
    in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be
    available for distribution over time only to closed block
    policyholders.



    
    55



Table of Contents





    The
    Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May
    Adversely Affect the Level of Claim Losses We Incur and the
    Value of Our Investment Portfolio


 


    The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States
    and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened
    security measures in response to these types of threats may
    cause significant volatility in global financial markets and
    result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions
    to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in
    our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines
    in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by
    the continued threat of terrorism. We cannot predict whether,
    and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain
    investments may suffer losses as a result of financial,
    commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions
    might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or
    principal on their securities. The continued threat of terrorism
    also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced
    insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk
    than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain
    reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist actions also could
    disrupt our operations centers in the United States or abroad.
    In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in
    higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. See
    “— Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital
    Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely
    Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and These
    Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future.”


 



    The
    Occurrence of Events Unanticipated In Our Disaster Recovery
    Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Impair Our
    Ability to Conduct Business Effectively


 


    In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an
    epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus,
    a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our
    disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact
    on our ability to conduct business and on our results of
    operations and financial position, particularly if those
    problems affect our computer-based data processing,
    transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable
    data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide
    reliable service. Despite our implementation of a variety of
    security measures, our computer systems could be subject to
    physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from
    unauthorized tampering. In addition, in the event that a
    significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event
    of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could
    be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere
    with our suppliers’ ability to provide goods and services
    and our employees’ ability to perform their job
    responsibilities.


 



    We
    Face Unforeseen Liabilities or Asset Impairments Arising from
    Possible Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses or
    Difficulties Integrating Such Businesses


 


    We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses
    in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future.
    There could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments,
    including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with
    the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may
    acquire in the future. In addition, there may be liabilities or
    asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in
    the course of performing due diligence investigations on each
    business that we have acquired or may acquire. Furthermore, the
    use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would
    consume capital resources that would no longer be available for
    other corporate purposes.


 


    Our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any
    acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our
    ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an
    efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to integrate
    such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may
    take loner than expected. The integration of operations may
    require the dedication of significant management resources,
    which may distract management’s attention from day-to-day
    business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the
    operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to
    realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such
    acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be
    less than expected.



    
    56



Table of Contents





    Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Variable Annuity Guarantee Riders that
    Protect Policyholders Against Significant Downturns in Equity
    Markets May Increase the Volatility of Our Results Related to
    the Inclusion of an Own Credit Adjustment in the Estimated Fair
    Value of the Liability for These Riders


 


    In determining the valuation of certain variable annuity
    guarantee rider liabilities that are carried at estimated fair
    value, we must consider our own credit standing, which is not
    hedged. A decrease in our own credit spread could cause the
    value of these liabilities to increase, resulting in a reduction
    to net income. An increase in our own credit spread could cause
    the value of these liabilities to decrease, resulting in an
    increase to net income. Because this credit adjustment is
    determined, at least in part, by taking into consideration
    publicly available information relating to our publicly-traded
    debt (including related credit default swap spreads), the
    overall condition of fixed income markets may impact this
    adjustment. The credit premium implied in our publicly-traded
    debt instruments may not always necessarily reflect our actual
    credit rating or our claims paying ability. Recently, the
    fixed-income markets have experienced a period of extreme
    volatility which negatively impacted market liquidity and
    increased credit spreads. The increase in credit default swap
    spreads has at times been even more pronounced than in the fixed
    income cash markets. In a broad based market downturn, this
    increase in our own credit spread could result in net income
    being relatively flat when a deterioration in other market
    inputs required for the estimate of fair value would otherwise
    result in a significant reduction in net income. The inclusion
    of our own credit standing in this case has the effect of muting
    the actual net income losses recognized. In subsequent periods,
    if our credit spreads improve relative to the overall market, we
    could have a reduction of net income in an overall improving
    market.


 



    As a
    Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its
    Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and
    Pay Dividends


 


    MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and
    financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant
    operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and
    permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with
    its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its
    obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. If the
    cash MetLife, Inc. receives from its subsidiaries is
    insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding
    company obligations, MetLife, Inc. may be required to raise cash
    through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional
    equity or the sale of assets.


 


    The payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife,
    Inc. by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance
    laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of
    prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In
    addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of
    dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to
    MetLife, Inc. if they determine that the payment could be
    adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. See
    “Business — Regulation — Insurance
    Regulation” and Note 18 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — The Holding Company — Liquidity
    and Capital Sources — Dividends.”


 


    Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or
    advances by our foreign subsidiaries to MetLife, Inc. could be
    subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or
    repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer
    restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the
    jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. See
    “— Our International Operations Face Political,
    Legal, Operational and Other Risks That Could Negatively Affect
    Those Operations or Our Profitability.”


 



    MetLife,
    Inc.’s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of
    Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions
    of the MetLife Policyholder Trust


 


    Under the Plan, we established the MetLife Policyholder Trust
    (the “Trust”) to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc.
    common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving
    cash or policy credits under the plan. As of February 20,
    2009, 241,743,740 shares, or 29.6%, of the outstanding
    shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock, are held in the Trust.
    Because of the number of shares held in the Trust and the voting
    provisions of the Trust, the Trust may affect the outcome of
    matters brought to a stockholder vote.


 


    Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions
    described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of
    common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the
    recommendations given by MetLife, Inc.’s



    
    57



Table of Contents




    Board of Directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no
    such recommendations, as directed by the board. As a result of
    the voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may
    be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of
    stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so
    long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common
    stock.


 


    If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified
    in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the
    Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in
    proportion to the instructions it receives. These actions
    include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has
    properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a
    nominee or nominees of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    or a vote on a stockholder’s proposal to oppose a board
    nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a
    vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders,
    subject to certain conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or
    substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or
    dissolution, of MetLife, Inc., in each case requiring a vote of
    stockholders under applicable Delaware law;




 



     
        • 

    
    any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion
    of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities
    or other property; and




 



     
        • 

    
    any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    to amend or redeem the rights under the stockholder rights plan,
    other than a proposal with respect to which we have received
    advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that
    the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action
    under Delaware law.





 


    If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions,
    the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by
    the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which
    will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually
    given by Trust beneficiaries.


 



    State
    Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws
    and Our Stockholder Rights Plan May Delay, Deter or Prevent
    Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might
    Consider in Their Best Interests


 


    State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may
    delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders
    might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may
    prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium
    over the market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock
    offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence
    of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may
    adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife,
    Inc.’s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging
    takeover attempts in the future.


 


    Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would
    face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or
    prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of MetLife, Inc.
    might consider in their best interests. First, the insurance
    laws and regulations of the various states in which MetLife,
    Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or
    impede a business combination involving us. State insurance laws
    prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance
    company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance
    regulator. Under most states’ statutes, an entity is
    presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns,
    directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that
    insurance company or its parent company. We are also subject to
    banking regulations, and may in the future become subject to
    additional regulations. In addition, the Investment Company Act
    would require approval by the contract owners of our variable
    contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any
    affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our
    variable contracts. Finally, FINRA approval would be necessary
    for a change of control of any FINRA registered broker-dealer
    that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of MetLife, Inc.


 


    In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law may affect the ability of an “interested
    stockholder” to engage in certain business combinations,
    including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional
    shares, for a period of three years following the time that the
    stockholder becomes an “interested



    
    58



Table of Contents




    stockholder.” An “interested stockholder” is
    defined to include persons owning, directly or indirectly, 15%
    or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation.


 


    MetLife, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws
    also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a
    takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best
    interests. These provisions may adversely affect prevailing
    market prices for MetLife, Inc.’s common stock and include:
    classification of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors into
    three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings
    by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of
    candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals
    to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority
    voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of
    the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.


 


    The stockholder rights plan adopted by MetLife, Inc.’s
    Board of Directors may also have anti-takeover effects. The
    stockholder rights plan is designed to protect MetLife,
    Inc.’s stockholders in the event of unsolicited offers to
    acquire us and other coercive takeover tactics which, in the
    opinion of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors, could impair
    its ability to represent stockholder interests. The provisions
    of the stockholder rights plan may render an unsolicited
    takeover more difficult or less likely to occur or might prevent
    such a takeover, even though such takeover may offer MetLife,
    Inc.’s stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at
    a price above the prevailing market price and may be favored by
    a majority of MetLife, Inc.’s stockholders.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B