Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Difficult
    Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy
    Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and
    Results of Operations and These Conditions May Not Improve in
    the Near Future


 


    Our business and results of operations are materially affected
    by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy
    generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the
    world. The stress experienced by global capital markets that
    began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially
    increased during 2008 and into 2009. Concerns over the
    availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market,
    geopolitical issues, energy costs, inflation and a declining
    real estate market in the United States contributed to increased
    volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the
    markets in the near term. These factors, combined with declining
    business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment,
    precipitated a recession. Most economists believe this recession
    ended in the third quarter of 2009, when positive growth
    returned, and now expect positive growth will continue in 2010.
    However, the expected recovery is weaker than normal, and the
    unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time. In
    addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced a period of
    extreme volatility which negatively impacted market liquidity
    conditions. Initially, the concerns on the part of market
    participants were focused on the
    sub-prime
    segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these
    concerns expanded to include a broad range of mortgage- and
    asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those
    rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit
    and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of
    financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors.
    Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and
    have less opportunity for disposal. Domestic and international
    equity markets have also experienced heightened volatility and
    turmoil, with issuers (such as our company) that have exposure
    to the real estate, mortgage and credit markets particularly
    affected. These events and continued market upheavals may have
    an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large
    investment portfolio and are also dependent upon customer
    behavior. Our revenues are likely to decline in such
    circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition,
    in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the
    global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital or
    operating losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we
    are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.


 


    We are a significant writer of variable annuity products. The
    account values of these products decrease as a result of
    downturns in capital markets. Decreases in account values reduce
    the fees generated by our variable annuity products, cause the
    amortization of deferred acquisition costs to accelerate and
    could increase the level of liabilities we must carry to support
    those variable annuities issued with any associated guarantees.


 


    Factors such as consumer spending, business investment,
    government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital
    markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic
    environment and, ultimately, the amount and





    
    27



Table of Contents





    profitability of our business. In an economic downturn
    characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower
    corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer
    spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products
    could be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an
    elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of
    policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance
    premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Adverse
    changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition. The recent market turmoil
    has also raised the possibility of legislative, regulatory and
    governmental actions. We cannot predict whether or when such
    actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could
    have on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition. See “— Actions of the
    U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Other
    Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and
    Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended
    Effect or Could Adversely Affect MetLife’s Competitive
    Position,”  “— Our Insurance and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth” and “— Competitive Factors May
    Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability”.


 



    Adverse
    Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect
    Our Ability to Meet Liquidity Needs, Access to Capital and Cost
    of Capital


 


    The capital and credit markets are sometimes subject to periods
    of extreme volatility and disruption. Such volatility and
    disruption could cause liquidity and credit capacity for certain
    issuers to be limited.


 


    We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our
    debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities
    lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities.
    Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our
    operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources
    of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations,
    deposit funds, and cash flow from our investment portfolio and
    assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily
    convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets
    also include short-term instruments such as repurchase
    agreements and commercial paper. Sources of capital in normal
    markets include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term
    debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities
    and equity securities.


 


    In the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact
    on our capital and liquidity beyond expectations and our current
    resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek
    additional financing. The availability of additional financing
    will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions,
    regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit,
    the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of
    credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings
    and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers
    or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or
    short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment
    losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to
    a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be
    impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take
    negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity
    may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be
    able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable
    terms, or at all.


 


    Our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we
    are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on
    short notice under securities lending agreements.


 


    Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit
    markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate
    our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such
    market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely
    manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital
    requirements; and access the capital necessary to grow our
    business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital,
    issue different types of securities than we would otherwise,
    less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor
    securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of
    capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly
    reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations,
    financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position
    could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the
    financial markets.




    
    28



Table of Contents






    Actions
    of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York and
    Other Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and
    Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended
    Effect or Could Adversely Affect MetLife’s Competitive
    Position


 


    In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system
    and financial markets and going concern threats to investment
    banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008,
    President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act
    of 2008 (“EESA”) into law. Pursuant to EESA, the
    U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things,
    purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other
    securities (including newly issued preferred shares and
    subordinated debt) from financial institutions for the purpose
    of stabilizing the financial markets. The U.S. federal
    government, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the FDIC and
    other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are
    considering taking other actions to address the financial
    crisis. For example, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York made
    funds available to commercial and financial companies under a
    number of programs, including the Commercial Paper Funding
    Facility, which expired in early 2010. The U.S. Treasury
    has established programs based in part on EESA and in part on
    the separate authority of the Federal Reserve Board and the
    FDIC, to foster purchases from and by banks, insurance companies
    and other financial institutions of certain kinds of assets for
    which valuations have been low and markets weak. Some of the
    programs established by governmental and regulatory bodies have
    recently been discontinued or will be in the near term. We
    cannot predict what impact, if any, this could have on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.


 


    Although such actions appear to have provided some stability to
    the financial markets, our business, financial condition and
    results of operations and the trading price of our common stock
    could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that
    credit availability and prices for financial assets revert to
    their low levels of late 2008 and early 2009 or do not continue
    to improve. Furthermore, Congress has considered, and may
    consider in the future, legislative proposals that could impact
    the estimated fair value of mortgage loans, such as legislation
    that would permit bankruptcy courts to rewrite the terms of a
    mortgage contract, including reducing the principal balance of
    mortgage loans owed by bankrupt borrowers. If such legislation
    is enacted, it could cause loss of principal on certain of our
    non-agency prime RMBS holdings and could cause a ratings
    downgrade in such holdings which, in turn, would cause an
    increase in unrealized losses on such securities and increase
    the risk-based capital that we must hold to support such
    securities. See “ — We Are Exposed to Significant
    Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which May Adversely Affect
    Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity,
    and Our Net Investment Income Can Vary from Period to
    Period.” In addition, the U.S. federal government
    (including the FDIC) and private lenders have begun programs to
    reduce the monthly payment obligations of mortgagors
    and/or
    reduce the principal payable on residential mortgage loans. As a
    result, we may need to maintain or increase our engagement in
    similar activities in order to comply with program requirements
    and to remain competitive. We cannot predict whether the funds
    made available by the U.S. federal government and its
    agencies will be enough to continue stabilizing or to further
    revive the financial markets or, if additional amounts are
    necessary, whether Congress will be willing to make the
    necessary appropriations, what the public’s sentiment would
    be towards any such appropriations, or what additional
    requirements or conditions might be imposed on the use of any
    such additional funds.


 


    President Obama has proposed a “Financial Crisis
    Responsibility Fee” which would be imposed on financial
    firms with more than $50 billion in consolidated assets.
    The fee is intended to recover the cost of the Troubled Assets
    Relief Program established under EESA, which the Obama
    Administration currently estimates will be $117 billion.
    The fee would be imposed annually on covered financial firms for
    at least ten years and possibly longer. As a bank holding
    company with more than $50 billion of consolidated assets,
    MetLife appears to be subject to the proposed fee. Full details
    of the proposed fee, the companies subject to it, and the manner
    in which it would be assessed have not yet been released, so we
    cannot estimate its financial impact on us. However, it is
    possible that the proposed fee could have a material adverse
    impact on our results of operations.


 


    The choices made by the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve
    Board and the FDIC in their distribution of amounts available
    under EESA and any of the proposed new asset purchase programs
    could have the effect of supporting some aspects of the
    financial services industry more than others. Some of our
    competitors have received, or may in the future receive, funding
    under one or more of the federal government’s capital
    infusion programs. This





    
    29



Table of Contents





    could adversely affect our competitive position. See
    “ — Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability.”


 


    See also “— Proposals to Regulate Compensation,
    if Implemented, Could Hinder or Prevent Us From Attracting and
    Retaining Management and Other Employees with the Talent and
    Experience to Manage and Conduct Our Business Effectively”
    and “— Our Insurance and Banking Businesses Are
    Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth.”


 



    Our
    Insurance and Banking Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and
    Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and
    Limit Our Growth


 


    Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of
    insurance and other laws and regulations. See
    “Business — Regulation — Insurance
    Regulation.” State insurance laws regulate most aspects of
    our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance
    subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the
    states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they
    are licensed. Our
    non-U.S. insurance
    operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory
    authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and
    operate.


 


    State laws in the United States grant insurance regulatory
    authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among
    other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    licensing companies and agents to transact business;




 



     
        • 

    
    calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with
    statutory requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    mandating certain insurance benefits;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating certain premium rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    reviewing and approving policy forms;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through
    the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices,
    distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating advertising;




 



     
        • 

    
    protecting privacy;




 



     
        • 

    
    establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and
    solvency standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and
    minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance
    policies and annuity contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    approving changes in control of insurance companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions
    between affiliates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.





 


    State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess
    insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
    policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an
    assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have
    currently established for these potential liabilities may not be
    adequate. See “Business — Regulation —
    Insurance Regulation — Guaranty Associations and
    Similar Arrangements.”


 


    State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly
    re-examine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies
    and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    The NAIC and several states’ legislatures have considered
    the need for regulations
    and/or laws
    to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of
    investigations of broker compensation in the State of New York
    and in





    
    30



Table of Contents





    other jurisdictions. The NAIC adopted a Compensation Disclosure
    Amendment to its Producers Licensing Model Act which, if adopted
    by the states, would require disclosure by agents or brokers to
    customers that insurers will compensate such agents or brokers
    for the placement of insurance and documented acknowledgement of
    this arrangement in cases where the customer also compensates
    the agent or broker. Several states have enacted laws similar to
    the NAIC amendment. Others have enacted laws or proposed
    disclosure regulations which, under differing circumstances,
    require disclosure of specific compensation earned by a producer
    on the sale of an insurance or annuity product. We cannot
    predict how many states may promulgate the NAIC amendment or
    alternative regulations or the extent to which these regulations
    may have a material adverse impact on our business.


 


    Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly
    regulate the business of insurance. However, federal legislation
    and administrative policies in several areas can significantly
    and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include
    financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension
    regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform
    legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct
    and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed
    from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of
    an optional federal charter for insurance companies. As part of
    a proposed comprehensive reform of financial services
    regulation, Congress is considering the creation of an office
    within the federal government to collect information about the
    insurance industry, recommend prudential standards, and
    represent the United States in dealings with foreign insurance
    regulators.


 


    Other aspects of financial services regulatory reform proposals
    that have been considered could affect our business. For example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Obama Administration and Congress have made various
    proposals that would change the capital and liquidity
    requirements, credit exposure concentrations and similar
    prudential matters for bank holding companies, banks and other
    financial firms.




 



     
        • 

    
    Bank regulatory agencies have issued proposed interagency
    guidance for funding and liquidity risk management that would
    apply to MetLife as a bank holding company.




 



     
        • 

    
    The proposals under consideration in Congress also include
    special regulatory and insolvency regimes, including even higher
    capital, prudential and liquidity standards for financial
    institutions that are deemed to be systemically significant.
    These insolvency regimes could vary from the resolution regimes
    currently applicable to some subsidiaries of such companies and
    could include assessments on financial companies to provide for
    a systemic resolution fund.




 



     
        • 

    
    The Obama Administration, members of Congress and Federal
    banking regulators have suggested new or increased taxes or
    assessments on banks and financial firms to mitigate the costs
    to taxpayers of various government programs established to
    address the financial crisis and to offset the costs of
    potential future crises. See “— Actions of the
    U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Other
    Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and
    Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended
    Effect or Could Adversely Affect MetLife’s Competitive
    Position.”




 



     
        • 

    
    The proposed legislation also includes new conditions on the
    writing and trading of certain standardized and non-standardized
    derivatives.





 


    The creation of an additional supervisor with authority over
    MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, the likelihood of additional
    regulations, and the other changes discussed above could require
    changes to MetLife’s operations. Whether such changes would
    affect our competitiveness in comparison to other institutions
    is uncertain, since it is possible that at least some of our
    competitors will be similarly affected. Competitive effects are
    possible, however, if MetLife, Inc. were required to pay any new
    or increased taxes, or if it were determined to be systemically
    significant and were subjected to higher capital and liquidity
    requirements and generally stricter prudential supervisory
    standards as a result. It is unclear at present whether
    systemically significant institutions will be helped or hurt
    competitively if such additional requirements are imposed. We
    cannot predict whether these or other proposals will be adopted,
    or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such
    laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results
    of operations or on our dealings with other financial
    institutions.




    
    31



Table of Contents





    As a federally chartered national association, MetLife Bank is
    subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and
    guidelines. Federal banking laws regulate most aspects of the
    business of MetLife Bank, but certain state laws may apply as
    well. MetLife Bank is principally regulated by the OCC, the
    Federal Reserve and the FDIC.


 


    Federal banking laws and regulations address various aspects of
    MetLife Bank’s business and operations with respect to,
    among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    chartering to carry on business as a bank;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintaining minimum capital ratios;




 



     
        • 

    
    capital management in relation to the bank’s assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    safety and soundness standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    loan loss and other related liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    liquidity;




 



     
        • 

    
    financial reporting and disclosure standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    counterparty credit concentration;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions;




 



     
        • 

    
    lending limits;




 



     
        • 

    
    payment of interest;




 



     
        • 

    
    unfair or deceptive acts or practices;




 



     
        • 

    
    privacy; and




 



     
        • 

    
    bank holding company and bank change of control.





 


    Furthermore, Congress is considering establishing a new
    governmental agency that would supervise and regulate
    institutions that provide certain financial products and
    services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services
    to which this legislation would apply might exclude certain
    insurance business, the new agency would have authority to
    regulate consumer services provided by MetLife Bank. Federal
    pre-emption of state consumer protection laws applicable to
    banking services may be eliminated or significantly restricted
    in any financial services regulatory reform legislation that
    Congress may pass, which would increase the regulatory and
    compliance burden on MetLife Bank and could adversely affect its
    business and results of operations.


 


    The FDIC has the right to assess FDIC-insured banks for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to depositors.
    Because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our
    control, the liabilities that we have currently established for
    these potential liabilities may not be adequate.


 


    Federal and state banking regulators regularly re-examine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and their
    products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the bank and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on the financial condition and results
    of operations of MetLife Bank.


 


    Our international operations are subject to regulation in the
    jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is
    similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. Many of
    our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate
    in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that
    affect their operations also may affect our business
    relationships with them and their ability to purchase or
    distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. See “— Our International
    Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks
    that Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability.”


 


    Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time
    consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
    regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect
    compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.




    
    32



Table of Contents





    From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations
    or audits of MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiaries that could, if
    determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We cannot
    predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that
    could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the
    interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and
    statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in
    areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements.


 


    We are also subject to other regulations, including banking
    regulations, and may in the future become subject to additional
    regulations. See “Business — Regulation.”


 



    We Are
    Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which
    May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial
    Condition and Liquidity, and Our Net Investment Income Can Vary
    from Period to Period


 


    We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets
    risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads,
    equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange
    rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in
    general, the performance of the specific obligors included in
    our portfolio and other factors outside our control.


 


    Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the
    market price and cash flow variability associated with changes
    in interest rates. A rise in interest rates will increase the
    net unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment
    portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically
    within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our life
    insurance businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk.
    Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders
    may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate
    environment, requiring us to liquidate fixed income investments
    in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of
    the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance
    businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, and
    structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term interest
    rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging
    costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates may
    result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance
    liabilities, creating asset-liability duration mismatches. Our
    investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive
    instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be
    adversely affected by changes in interest rates from
    governmental monetary policies, domestic and international
    economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our
    control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net
    unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment
    portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return
    on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates
    would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our fixed
    income investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on
    funds reinvested. Our mitigation efforts with respect to
    interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an
    investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a
    weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the
    duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. However,
    our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be
    inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate fixed income
    investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the
    liability. Although we take measures to manage the economic
    risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we
    may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed
    income investments relative to our liabilities. See also
    “— Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability.”


 


    Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price
    and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit
    spreads. A widening of credit spreads will increase the net
    unrealized loss position of the fixed-income investment
    portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit based
    non-qualifying derivatives where we assume credit exposure, and,
    if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an
    extended period of time, would likely result in higher
    other-than-temporary
    impairments (“OTTI”). Credit spread tightening will
    reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of
    fixed maturity securities. In addition, market volatility can
    make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading
    becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include
    assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to
    period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of operations or financial condition.
    Credit spreads on both corporate and structured securities
    widened significantly during 2008, resulting in continuing
    depressed pricing. As a result of improved conditions, credit
    spreads narrowed in 2009. If there is a resumption of
    significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in
    credit spreads and defaults  and a lack of pricing transparency
    which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse
    effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial
    condition,





    
    33



Table of Contents





    liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses,
    impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions. See also
    “— Guarantees Within Certain of Our Variable
    Annuity Guarantee Benefits that Protect Policyholders Against
    Significant Downturns in Equity Markets May Increase the
    Volatility of Our Results Related to the Inclusion of an Own
    Credit Adjustment in the Estimated Fair Value of the Liability
    for These Guaranteed Benefits.”


 


    Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for
    lower earnings associated with certain of our insurance
    businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated
    fair value of the assets under management. Equity market
    downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of separate
    account products, such as variable annuities and variable life
    insurance that have underlying mutual funds with returns linked
    to the performance of the equity markets, and may cause some of
    our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce
    investments in those products. In addition, downturns and
    volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect
    on the revenues and returns from our savings and investment
    products and services. Because these products and services
    depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under
    management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our
    revenues by reducing the value of the investments we manage. The
    retail annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to
    equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets
    could decrease revenues and earnings in variable annuity
    products. Furthermore, certain of our annuity products offer
    guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit
    exposure should equity markets decline. The Company uses
    derivatives to mitigate the impact of such increased potential
    benefit exposures. We are also exposed to interest rate and
    equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term
    rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other
    postretirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in
    long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a
    negative effect on the funded status of these plans.


 


    We also provide certain guarantees within some of our products
    that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the
    equity markets. For example, we offer variable annuity products
    with guaranteed features, such as death benefits, withdrawal
    benefits, and minimum accumulation and income benefits. In
    volatile or declining equity market conditions, we may need to
    increase liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholder
    account balances, negatively affecting our net income. The
    Company uses derivatives to mitigate the impact of volatile or
    declining equity market conditions. A decline in equity markets
    also may reduce the estimated fair value of the investments
    supporting our pension and post retirement benefit plan
    obligations, changing the funded status of such plans, and
    adversely affect our results of operations. Lastly, we invest a
    portion of our investments in equity securities, leveraged
    buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds and
    the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by
    downturns or volatility in equity markets.


 


    Our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial
    and agricultural real estate. Our exposure to commercial and
    agricultural real estate risk stems from various factors. These
    factors include, but are not limited to, market conditions
    including the demand and supply of space, creditworthiness of
    tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and the
    inherent interest rate movement. Recently, a significantly
    weakened economic environment has led to declining commercial
    real estate tenant demand, increasing vacancy rates and
    declining property incomes. In addition, capital market
    conditions and accessibility to financing has prompted an
    increase in the risk premiums assessed in the sector. These
    trends have resulted in decreases in the value of our equity
    commercial real estate holdings, and deterioration in the value
    of the collateral securing our commercial mortgages. In
    addition, our real estate joint venture development program is
    subject to risks including, but not limited to, reduced property
    sales and decreased availability of financing which could
    adversely impact the joint venture developments
    and/or
    operations. The state of the economy and speed of recovery in
    fundamental and capital market conditions in the commercial and
    agricultural real estate sectors will continue to influence the
    performance of our investments in these sectors. These factors
    and others beyond our control could have a material adverse
    effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial
    condition, liquidity or cash flows through net investment
    income, realized investment losses and impairments.


 


    Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under
    “— Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange
    Rates and Foreign Securities Markets Could Negatively Affect Our
    Profitability.” Significant declines in equity prices,
    changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads,
    and changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
    operations, financial condition or liquidity. Changes in these
    factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect our net
    investment income in any period, and such changes can be
    substantial.




    
    34



Table of Contents





    A portion of our investments are made in leveraged buy-out
    funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds reported
    within other limited partnership interests, many of which make
    private equity investments. The amount and timing of net
    investment income from such investment funds tends to be uneven
    as a result of the performance of the underlying investments,
    including private equity investments. The timing of
    distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events
    relating to the underlying investments, as well as the
    funds’ schedules for making distributions and their needs
    for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount
    of net investment income that we record from these investments
    can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Recent equity,
    real estate and credit market volatility have further reduced
    net investment income and related yields for these types of
    investments and we may continue to experience reduced net
    investment income due to continued volatility in the equity,
    real estate and credit markets in 2010.


 


    In 2009, the disruption in the global financial markets
    moderated, although not all markets are functioning normally and
    many remain reliant upon government investments and liquidity.
    Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the
    U.S. real estate market and increased mortgage loan
    delinquencies, investor anxiety over the U.S. economy,
    rating agency downgrades of various structured products and
    financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment
    vehicles and monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging
    of financial institutions and hedge funds and a serious
    dislocation in the inter-bank market. If there is a resumption
    of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes
    in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the
    strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the
    U.S. Dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
    operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through
    realized investment losses, impairments, and changes in
    unrealized loss positions.


 



    Changes
    in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our
    Profitability


 


    Some of our products, principally traditional whole life
    insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts,
    expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce
    our “spread,” or the difference between the amounts
    that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general
    account and the rate of return we are able to earn on general
    account investments intended to support obligations under the
    contracts. Our spread is a key component of our net income.


 


    As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be
    forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured
    or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our
    investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the
    fixed income securities, commercial or agricultural mortgage
    loans and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio
    with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates,
    which exacerbates this risk. Lowering interest crediting rates
    can help offset decreases in investment margins on some
    products. However, our ability to lower these rates could be
    limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates
    and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset
    yields. As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially
    become negative. Our expectation for future spreads is an
    important component in the amortization of DAC and VOBA, and
    significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate
    amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected
    reporting period. In addition, during periods of declining
    interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be
    relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting
    in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium
    features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency,
    or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force
    from year to year, during a period when our new investments
    carry lower returns. A decline in market interest rates could
    also reduce our return on investments that do not support
    particular policy obligations. Accordingly, declining interest
    rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations,
    financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our
    profitability.


 


    The sufficiency of our life insurance statutory reserves in
    Taiwan is highly sensitive to interest rates and other related
    assumptions. This is due to the sustained low interest rate
    environment in Taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate
    guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health
    contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of
    long-duration investments in the Taiwanese capital markets to
    match such long-duration liabilities. The key assumptions
    include current Taiwan government bond yield rates increasing
    from current levels of 1.8% to 3.0% over the next ten years, a
    modest increase in lapse rates, mortality and morbidity levels
    remaining consistent with recent experience, and
    U.S. Dollar-denominated investments making up 35% of total
    assets backing





    
    35



Table of Contents





    life insurance statutory reserves. Current statutory reserve
    adequacy analysis shows that provisions are adequate; however,
    adverse changes in key assumptions for interest rates, lapse
    experience and mortality and morbidity levels could lead to a
    need to strengthen reserves.


 


    Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect
    our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest
    rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the
    investments in MetLife’s general account with higher
    yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates
    necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. We,
    therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower
    profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of
    existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy
    loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as
    policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as
    interest rates rise. This process may result in cash outflows
    requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of
    those investments are adversely affected by the increase in
    market interest rates, which may result in realized investment
    losses. Unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us
    to accelerate the amortization of DAC and VOBA, which would
    increase our current expenses and reduce net income. An increase
    in market interest rates could also have a material adverse
    effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by
    decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income
    securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment
    portfolio. Lastly, an increase in interest rates could result in
    decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of
    variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds.


 



    Some
    of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid and Are in Asset
    Classes that Have Been Experiencing Significant Market Valuation
    Fluctuations


 


    We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as
    privately-placed fixed maturity securities; mortgage loans;
    policy loans and leveraged leases; equity real estate, including
    real estate joint ventures and funds; and other limited
    partnership interests. These asset classes represented 33.2% of
    the carrying value of our total cash and investments at
    December 31, 2009. Even some of our very high quality
    investments have been more illiquid as a result of the current
    market conditions.


 


    If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in
    excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or
    return cash collateral in connection with our investment
    portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending
    program, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a
    timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise
    would have been able to realize, or both.


 


    The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of
    investments, our investments in the asset classes described
    above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset
    classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market
    price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our
    investments in the current market, there can be no assurance
    that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we
    have recorded them and we could be forced to sell them at
    significantly lower prices.


 



    Our
    Participation in a Securities Lending Program Subjects Us to
    Potential Liquidity and Other Risks


 


    We participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of
    securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and
    short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily
    brokerage firms and commercial banks. We generally obtain
    collateral in an amount equal to 102% of the estimated fair
    value of the loaned securities, which is obtained at the
    inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or
    equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. In limited
    instances, during the extraordinary market events beginning in
    the fourth quarter of 2008 and through part of 2009, we accepted
    collateral less than 102% at the inception of certain loans, but
    never less than 100%, of the estimated fair value of such loaned
    securities. At December 31, 2009, we had no loans
    outstanding where we had accepted at the inception of the loan
    collateral less than 102%, of the estimated fair value of such
    loaned securities. These loans involved U.S. Government
    Treasury Bills which we considered to have limited variation in
    their estimated fair value during the term of the loan. See
    “ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Investments — Securities Lending.”


 


    Returns of loaned securities by the third parties would require
    us to return the cash collateral associated with such loaned
    securities. In addition, in some cases, the maturity of the
    securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we
    have purchased with cash received from the third parties) may
    exceed the term of the related





    
    36



Table of Contents





    securities on loan and the estimated fair value may fall below
    the amount of cash received as collateral and invested. If we
    are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on
    short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet the
    return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such
    collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be
    forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for
    less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under
    normal market conditions, or both. In addition, under stressful
    capital market and economic conditions, such as those conditions
    we experienced during 2008 and 2009, liquidity broadly
    deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell
    securities.


 


    If we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities
    over time, the amount of investment income generated by these
    activities will also likely decline.


 



    Our
    Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to
    Declines in Estimated Fair Value of Specified Assets May
    Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Expose Us to Counterparty
    Credit Risk


 


    Some of our transactions with financial and other institutions
    specify the circumstances under which the parties are required
    to pledge collateral related to any decline in the estimated
    fair value of the specified assets. In addition, under the terms
    of some of our transactions, we may be required to make payments
    to our counterparties related to any decline in the estimated
    fair value of the specified assets. The amount of collateral we
    may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to
    make under these agreements may increase under certain
    circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity
    and Capital Sources — Collateral Financing
    Arrangements” and Note 12 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Gross
    Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities May be
    Realized or Result in Future Impairments, Resulting in a
    Reduction in Our Net Income


 


    Fixed maturity and equity securities classified as
    available-for-sale,
    except trading securities, are reported at their estimated fair
    value. Unrealized gains or losses on
    available-for-sale
    securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive
    income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. Our
    gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities
    at December 31, 2009 were $10.8 billion. The portion
    of the $10.8 billion of gross unrealized losses for fixed
    maturity and equity securities where the estimated fair value
    has declined and remained below amortized cost or cost by 20% or
    more for six months or greater was $5.1 billion at
    December 31, 2009. The accumulated change in estimated fair
    value of these
    available-for-sale
    securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is
    realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the
    decline in estimated fair value is determined to be
    other-than-temporary
    and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. Realized losses
    or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net
    income in a particular quarterly or annual period.


 



    The
    Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken
    on Our Investments is Highly Subjective and Could Materially
    Impact Our Results of Operations or Financial
    Position


 


    The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments
    varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic
    evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated
    with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and
    assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
    becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly and
    reflect changes in allowances and impairments in net investment
    losses as such evaluations are revised. There can be no
    assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of
    impairments taken and allowances provided as reflected in our
    consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, additional
    impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in
    the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future
    impairments or allowances.


 


    For example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity
    securities is adjusted for impairments deemed to be
    other-than-temporary
    that are charged to earnings in the period in which the
    determination is made. The assessment of whether impairments
    have occurred is based on our
    case-by-case
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The review of our fixed maturity and
    equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the
    total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities:
    (i) securities where the estimated fair





    
    37



Table of Contents





    value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by
    less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair
    value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by
    20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities
    where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below
    cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.


 


    Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the
    security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent
    in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates
    about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings
    potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process
    include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and
    the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost
    or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of
    securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial
    difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an
    entire industry sector or
    sub-sector;
    (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically
    depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for
    impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or
    industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has
    exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed
    maturity securities, whether we have the intent to sell or will
    more likely than not be required to sell a particular security
    before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below
    cost or amortized cost; (vii) with respect to equity
    securities, whether we have the ability and intent to hold a
    particular security for a period of time sufficient to allow for
    the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount at least
    equal to its cost; (viii) unfavorable changes in forecasted
    cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and
    (ix) other subjective factors, including concentrations and
    information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.


 



    Defaults
    on Our Mortgage Loans and Volatility in Performance May
    Adversely Affect Our Profitability


 


    Our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally
    collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential
    properties, as well as automobiles. The carrying value of
    mortgage loans is stated at original cost net of repayments,
    amortization of premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation
    allowances, except for residential mortgage loans
    held-for-sale
    accounted for under the fair value option which are carried at
    estimated fair value, as determined on a recurring basis, and
    certain commercial and residential mortgage loans carried at the
    lower of cost or estimated fair value, as determined on a
    nonrecurring basis. We establish valuation allowances for
    estimated impairments at the balance sheet date. Such valuation
    allowances are based on the excess carrying value of the loan
    over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted
    at the loan’s original effective interest rate, the
    estimated fair value of the loan’s collateral if the loan
    is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral
    dependent, or the loan’s observable market price if the
    loan is
    held-for-sale.
    We also establish valuation allowances for loan losses when a
    loss contingency exists for pools of loans with similar
    characteristics, such as mortgage loans based on similar
    property types or loans having similar
    loan-to-value
    or similar debt service coverage factors. At December 31,
    2009, loans that were either delinquent or in the process of
    foreclosure totaled less than 0.5% of our mortgage loan
    investments. The performance of our mortgage loan investments,
    however, may fluctuate in the future. In addition, substantially
    all of our mortgage loans
    held-for-investment
    have balloon payment maturities. An increase in the default rate
    of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition through realized investment losses or increases in our
    valuation allowances. See “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Investments — Mortgage
    Loans.”


 


    Further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage
    loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and
    consequently on our consolidated results of operations or
    financial condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by
    having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments
    that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region
    or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment
    portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated.
    Moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular
    groups of related assets may be limited if other market
    participants are seeking to sell at the same time. In addition,
    legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications
    to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. We cannot
    predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact,
    if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on
    our business or investments.




    
    38



Table of Contents






    The
    Impairment of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely
    Affect Us


 


    We have exposure to many different industries and
    counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with
    counterparties in the financial services industry, including
    brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge
    funds and other investment funds and other institutions. Many of
    these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of
    default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to
    secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when
    the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at
    prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or
    derivative exposure due to us. We also have exposure to these
    financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt
    instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities,
    derivative transactions and equity investments. Further,
    potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in
    response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking
    system and financial markets, such as investment,
    nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other
    intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new
    authority that may be created, could negatively impact these
    instruments, securities, transactions and investments. There can
    be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the
    carrying value of these investments would not materially and
    adversely affect our business and results of operations.


 



    We
    Face Unforeseen Liabilities or Asset Impairments or Rating
    Actions Arising from Possible Acquisitions and Dispositions of
    Businesses or Difficulties Integrating Such
    Businesses


 


    We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses
    in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future.
    There could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments,
    including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with
    the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may
    acquire in the future. In addition, there may be liabilities or
    asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in
    the course of performing due diligence investigations on each
    business that we have acquired or may acquire. Furthermore, the
    use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would
    consume capital resources that would no longer be available for
    other corporate purposes. Moreover, as a result of uncertainty
    and risks associated with potential acquisitions and
    dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain
    actions with respect to the ratings assigned to MetLife, Inc.
    and/or its
    subsidiaries. See “Business — Company
    Ratings — Rating Actions.”


 


    Our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any
    acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our
    ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an
    efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to integrate
    such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may
    take longer than expected. The integration of operations may
    require the dedication of significant management resources,
    which may distract management’s attention from
    day-to-day
    business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the
    operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to
    realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such
    acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be
    less than expected.


 



    Fluctuations
    in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates and Foreign Securities
    Markets Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability


 


    We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar resulting
    from our holdings of
    non-U.S. Dollar
    denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and
    net income from foreign operations and issuance of
    non-U.S. Dollar
    denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts
    and funding agreements. These risks relate to potential
    decreases in estimated fair value and income resulting from a
    strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the
    U.S. Dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign
    currencies versus the U.S. Dollar will adversely affect the
    estimated fair value of our
    non-U.S. Dollar
    denominated investments and our investments in foreign
    subsidiaries. Although we use foreign currency swaps and forward
    contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we
    cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or
    that our counterparties will perform their obligations. See
    “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk.”


 


    From time to time, various emerging market countries have
    experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including
    significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to
    foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in
    certain emerging markets.




    
    39



Table of Contents





    We have matched substantially all of our foreign currency
    liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments
    denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits
    the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local
    operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect
    the translation of these results into our U.S. Dollar basis
    consolidated financial statements. Although we take certain
    actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate
    fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported
    results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to
    effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange
    rate fluctuation. See “Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk.”


 



    Our
    International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and
    Other Risks that Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability


 


    Our international operations face political, legal, operational
    and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations.
    We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization
    or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls
    or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds
    from these operations out of the countries in which they operate
    or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. Dollars or
    other currencies. Some of our foreign insurance operations are,
    and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where
    these risks are heightened. See “Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” In addition, we
    rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter
    labor problems resulting from workers’ associations and
    trade unions in some countries. In Japan, China and India we
    operate with local business partners with the resulting risk of
    managing partner relationships to the business objectives. If
    our business model is not successful in a particular country, we
    may lose all or most of our investment in building and training
    the sales force in that country.


 


    We are currently planning to expand our international operations
    in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets.
    This may require considerable management time, as well as
    start-up
    expenses for market development before any significant revenues
    and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets
    may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in
    existing markets may be affected by local economic and market
    conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not
    achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations
    may be negatively impacted.


 


    In recent years, the operating environment in Argentina has been
    very challenging. In Argentina, we were formerly principally
    engaged in the pension business. In December 2008, the Argentine
    government nationalized private pensions and seized the pension
    funds’ investments, eliminating the private pensions
    business in Argentina. As a result, we have experienced and will
    continue to experience reductions in the operation’s
    revenues and cash flows. The Argentine government now controls
    all assets which previously were managed by our Argentine
    pension operations. Further governmental or legal actions
    related to our operations in Argentina could negatively impact
    our operations in Argentina and result in future losses.


 


    See also “— Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability” regarding the
    impact of low interest rates on our Taiwanese operations.


 



    As a
    Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its
    Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and
    Pay Dividends


 


    MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and
    financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant
    operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and
    permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with
    its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its
    obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. If the
    cash MetLife, Inc. receives from its subsidiaries is
    insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding
    company obligations, MetLife, Inc. may be required to raise cash
    through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional
    equity or the sale of assets.


 


    The payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife,
    Inc. by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance
    laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of
    prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In
    addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of
    dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to
    MetLife, Inc. if they determine that the payment could be
    adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. See
    “Business — Regulation — Insurance
    Regulation” and Note 18 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and





    
    40



Table of Contents





    Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — The Holding Company — Liquidity
    and Capital Sources — Dividends from
    Subsidiaries.”


 


    Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or
    advances by our foreign subsidiaries to MetLife, Inc. could be
    subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or
    repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer
    restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the
    jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. See
    “— Our International Operations Face Political,
    Legal, Operational and Other Risks That Could Negatively Affect
    Those Operations or Our Profitability.”


 



    A
    Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or
    Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations


 


    Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized
    Statistical Rating Organizations (each, an “NRSRO”)
    publish as indicators of an insurance company’s ability to
    meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important
    to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to
    market our products and our competitive position. See
    “Business — Company Ratings — Insurer
    Financial Strength Ratings.”


 


    Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations in many ways, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other
    investment products;




 



     
        • 

    
    adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and
    independent sales intermediaries;




 



     
        • 

    
    materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders
    and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and
    services to remain competitive; and




 



     
        • 

    
    adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at
    reasonable prices or at all.





 


    In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance
    subsidiaries, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings for
    MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries. Credit ratings
    are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms
    of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors
    in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain
    types of liquidity. See “Business — Company
    Ratings — Credit Ratings.” Downgrades in our
    credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations in many ways,
    including adversely limiting our access to capital markets,
    potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to
    post collateral. For example, with respect to derivative
    transactions with credit ratings downgrade triggers, a two-notch
    downgrade would have impacted our derivative collateral
    requirements by $146 million at December 31, 2009.
    Also, $480 million of liabilities associated with funding
    agreements and other capital market products were subject to
    credit ratings downgrade triggers that permit early termination
    subject to a notice period of 90 days.


 


    In view of the difficulties experienced during 2008 and 2009 by
    many financial institutions, including our competitors in the
    insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs
    will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply
    to such institutions, will continue to increase the frequency
    and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request
    additional information from the companies that they rate, and
    may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in
    the NRSRO models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.
    Rating agencies use an “outlook statement” of
    “positive,” “stable,” “negative”
    or “developing” to indicate a medium- or long-term
    trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a
    ratings change. A rating may have a “stable” outlook
    to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however,
    a “stable” rating does not preclude a rating agency
    from changing a rating at any time, without notice. Certain
    rating agencies assign rating modifiers such as
    “CreditWatch” or “Under Review” to indicate
    their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating.
    These ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection
    with certain events such as potential mergers and acquisitions,
    or material changes in a company’s results, in order for
    the rating agencies to perform its analysis to fully determine
    the rating implications of the event. Certain rating agencies
    have recently implemented rating actions, including downgrades,
    outlook changes and modifiers, for MetLife, Inc.’s and
    certain of its subsidiaries’ insurer financial strength and
    credit ratings. See “Business — Company
    Ratings — Rating Actions.”




    
    41



Table of Contents





    We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what
    actions we may take in response to the actions of rating
    agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with
    other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings
    could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any
    NRSRO.


 



    An
    Inability to Access Our Credit Facilities Could Result in a
    Reduction in Our Liquidity and Lead to Downgrades in Our Credit
    and Financial Strength Ratings


 


    We have a $2.85 billion five-year revolving credit facility
    that matures in June 2012, as well as other facilities which we
    enter into in the ordinary course of business. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — The Holding Company —
    Liquidity and Capital Sources — Credit and Committed
    Facilities” and Note 11 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    We rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of
    liquidity. The availability of these facilities could be
    critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our
    ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market
    when alternative sources of credit are tight. The credit
    facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and
    financial covenants. We must comply with covenants under our
    credit facilities (including the $2.85 billion five-year
    revolving credit facility), including a requirement to maintain
    a specified minimum consolidated net worth.


 


    Our right to make borrowings under these facilities is subject
    to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including
    our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow
    under these facilities is also subject to the continued
    willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the
    facilities to provide funds. Our failure to comply with the
    covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to
    borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending
    commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other
    reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the
    facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit
    facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Defaults,
    Downgrades or Other Events Impairing the Carrying Value of Our
    Fixed Maturity or Equity Securities Portfolio May Reduce Our
    Earnings


 


    We are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of
    fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and
    interest payments they owe us. We are also subject to the risk
    that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities,
    including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal
    and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows
    paid to our investment. Fixed maturity securities represent a
    significant portion of our investment portfolio. The occurrence
    of a major economic downturn (such as the downturn in the
    economy during late 2008 and 2009), acts of corporate
    malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that
    adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying
    collateral of these securities could cause the estimated fair
    value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our
    earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity
    securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A ratings
    downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular
    securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit
    quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities
    in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect.
    With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or
    guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a ratings
    downgrade affecting
    asset-backed
    securities (“ABS”) we hold could indicate the credit
    quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the
    capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our
    risk-based capital levels. Any event reducing the estimated fair
    value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition. Levels of writedowns or
    impairments are impacted by our assessment of intent to sell, or
    whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to
    sell, fixed maturity securities and the intent and ability to
    hold equity securities which have declined in value until
    recovery. If we determine to reposition or realign portions of
    the portfolio so as not to hold certain equity securities, or
    intend to sell or determine that it is more likely than not that
    we will be required to sell, certain fixed maturity securities
    in an unrealized loss position prior to recovery, then we will
    incur an
    other-than-temporary
    impairment charge in the period that the decision was made not
    to hold the equity security to recovery, or to sell, or the
    determination was made it is more likely than not that we will
    be required to sell the fixed maturity security.




    
    42



Table of Contents






    Our
    Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to
    Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Business


 


    Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and
    procedures to record properly and verify a large number of
    transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources
    to develop our risk management policies and procedures and
    expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our
    policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. Many of our
    methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use
    of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on
    historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully
    predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater
    than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management
    methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding
    markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that
    is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This
    information may not always be accurate, complete,
    up-to-date
    or properly evaluated. See “Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk.”


 



    Reinsurance
    May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us
    Against Losses


 


    As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase
    reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
    business segments. See “Business — Reinsurance
    Activity.” While reinsurance agreements generally bind the
    reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally
    fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine
    the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new
    business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for
    business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any
    increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we
    may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or
    may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable
    terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future
    business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect
    to those policies we issue.


 



    If the
    Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification
    Arrangements or to the Derivative Instruments We Use to Hedge
    Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed
    to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations


 


    We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments
    to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general,
    reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our
    policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.
    Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers
    and indemnitors. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers
    will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that
    indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or
    that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A
    reinsurer’s or indemnitor’s insolvency, inability or
    unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance
    agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various
    business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative
    instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit
    default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations —
    Investments.” If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor
    their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges
    of the related risk will be ineffective. This is a more
    pronounced risk to us in view of the stresses suffered by
    financial institutions over the past two years. Such failure
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    Differences
    Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving
    Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial
    Results


 


    Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our
    actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we
    use in setting prices for our products and establishing
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Our
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are
    established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will
    need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance
    and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on
    many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to
    be received over the assumed





    
    43



Table of Contents





    life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the
    insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid
    and the investment returns on the investments we make with the
    premiums we receive. We establish liabilities for property and
    casualty claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates
    of damages and liabilities incurred. To the extent that actual
    claims experience is less favorable than the underlying
    assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could
    be required to increase our liabilities.


 


    Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for
    future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely
    the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our
    liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts,
    particularly when those payments may not occur until well into
    the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on
    changes in the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as
    well as our actual experience. We charge or credit changes in
    our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are
    established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally
    established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we
    must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings
    negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Catastrophes
    May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and
    Reinsurance Availability


 


    Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of
    catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that
    causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics
    have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the
    likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be
    predicted. A significant pandemic could have a major impact on
    the global economy or the economies of particular countries or
    regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system,
    food supply, consumption, overall economic output and,
    eventually, on the financial markets. In addition, a pandemic
    that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors
    or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt
    our business operations. The effectiveness of external parties,
    including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in
    combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have
    a material impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group
    insurance operations, a localized event that affects the
    workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could
    cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims.
    These events could cause a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations in any period and, depending on their
    severity, could also materially and adversely affect our
    financial condition.


 


    Our Auto & Home business has experienced, and will
    likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may
    have a material adverse impact on the business, results of
    operations and financial condition of the Auto & Home
    segment. Although Auto & Home makes every effort to
    manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility
    management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not
    eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various
    events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms,
    earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather
    (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards),
    fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks.
    Historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related
    claims have related to homeowners coverages. However,
    catastrophes may also affect other Auto & Home
    coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence,
    timing and severity of catastrophes. In addition, changing
    climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be
    increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and
    severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes.


 


    Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our
    homeowners coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include
    coastal sections of the northeastern United States (including
    lower New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts),
    the Gulf Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and
    Texas) and Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure,
    primarily along the New Madrid fault line in the central United
    States and in the Pacific Northwest.


 


    The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both
    the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the
    event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are
    restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics,
    hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce
    significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are
    heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made
    catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our
    financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could
    materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial
    condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial





    
    44



Table of Contents





    condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability
    of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new
    business could also be affected. It is possible that increases
    in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other
    factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could
    increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the
    future.


 


    Most of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries
    are admitted to transact business require life and property and
    casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to
    participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay
    contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued
    by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations
    levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member
    insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate
    share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of
    business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is
    engaged. In addition, certain states have government owned or
    controlled organizations providing life and property and
    casualty insurance to their citizens. The activities of such
    organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy
    of guaranty fund assessments. Many of these organizations also
    have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the
    guaranty associations described above. Some states permit member
    insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial
    premium tax offsets. See “Business —
    Regulation — Insurance Regulation — Guaranty
    Associations and Similar Arrangements.”


 


    While in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied
    against MetLife have not been material, it is possible that a
    large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds
    inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional
    amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial
    condition or results of operations in a particular period. We
    have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that
    we consider adequate for assessments with respect to insurers
    that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings, but
    additional liabilities may be necessary. See Note 16 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we
    establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only
    after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We
    cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will
    be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to
    time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of
    limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as
    legislation restricting an insurer’s ability to withdraw
    from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our
    exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed
    by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or
    multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our
    property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in
    part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may
    not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future.
    See “— Reinsurance May Not Be Available,
    Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses.”


 



    Our
    Statutory Reserve Financings May be Subject to Cost Increases
    and New Financings May be Subject to Limited Market
    Capacity


 


    To support statutory reserves for several products including,
    but not limited to, our level premium term life and universal
    life with secondary guarantees and MLIC’s closed block, we
    currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a
    portion of our statutory reserve requirements. While we have
    financing facilities in place for our previously written
    business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to
    support writings through the end of 2010 or later, certain of
    these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the
    occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of MetLife or are
    subject to periodic repricing. Any resulting cost increases
    could negatively impact our financial results.


 


    Future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures
    in the marketplace is not guaranteed. If capacity becomes
    unavailable for a prolonged period of time, hindering our
    ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability
    to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be
    impacted.




    
    45



Table of Contents






    Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability


 


    Our business segments are subject to intense competition. We
    believe that this competition is based on a number of factors,
    including service, product features, scale, price, financial
    strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings,
    e-business
    capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
    number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial
    services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset
    managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group
    customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and
    investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader
    array of products, have more competitive pricing or more
    attractive features in their products or, with respect to other
    insurers, have higher claims paying ability ratings. Some may
    also have greater financial resources with which to compete.
    National banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers
    in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for
    financial services products.


 


    Many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually,
    and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be
    able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than
    renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a
    result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other
    products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.


 


    In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage
    businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually
    attract new entrants. See “Business —
    Competition.”


 


    Finally, the choices made by the U.S. Treasury in the
    administration of EESA and in its distribution of amounts
    available thereunder could have the effect of supporting some
    parts of the financial system more than others. See
    “— Actions of the U.S. Government, Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York and Other Governmental and Regulatory
    Bodies for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the
    Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not
    Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect
    MetLife’s Competitive Position.”


 



    Industry
    Trends Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our
    Businesses


 


    Our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of
    trends that affect the insurance industry, including competition
    with respect to product features, price, distribution
    capability, customer service and information technology. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Industry
    Trends.” The impact on our business and on the life
    insurance industry generally of the volatility and instability
    of the financial markets is difficult to predict, and our
    business plans, financial condition and results of operations
    may be negatively impacted or affected in other unexpected ways.
    In addition, the life insurance industry is subject to state
    regulation, and, as complex products are introduced, regulators
    may refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving
    standards. Furthermore, regulators have undertaken market and
    sales practices reviews of several markets or products,
    including variable annuities and group products. The market
    environment may also lead to changes in regulation that may
    benefit or disadvantage us relative to some of our competitors.
    See “— Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect
    Our Market Share and Profitability” and
    “Business — Competition.”


 



    Consolidation
    of Distributors of Insurance Products May Adversely Affect the
    Insurance Industry and the Profitability of Our
    Business


 


    The insurance industry distributes many of its individual
    products through other financial institutions such as banks and
    broker-dealers. An increase in bank and broker-dealer
    consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry’s
    sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for
    access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses
    and impair our ability to market insurance products to our
    current customer base or to expand our customer base.
    Consolidation of distributors
    and/or other
    industry changes may also increase the likelihood that
    distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing
    selling agreements to terms less favorable to us.




    
    46



Table of Contents






    Our
    Investments are Reflected Within the Consolidated Financial
    Statements Utilizing Different Accounting Bases and Accordingly
    We May Have Recognized Differences, Which May Be Significant,
    Between Cost and Estimated Fair Value in our Consolidated
    Financial Statements


 


    Our principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity
    securities, trading securities, short-term investments, mortgage
    loans, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests and other invested assets.
    The carrying value of such investments is as follows:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as
    available-for-sale,
    except for trading securities, and are reported at their
    estimated fair value. Unrealized investment gains and losses on
    these securities are recorded as a separate component of other
    comprehensive income (loss), net of policyholder related amounts
    and deferred income taxes.




 



     
        • 

    
    Trading securities are recorded at estimated fair value with
    subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in net
    investment income.




 



     
        • 

    
    Short-term investments include investments with remaining
    maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months,
    at the time of acquisition. Short-term investments that meet the
    definition of a security are stated at estimated fair value, and
    short-term investments that do not meet the definition of a
    security are stated at amortized cost, which approximates
    estimated fair value.




 



     
        • 

    
    The carrying value of mortgage loans is stated at original cost
    net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of
    discounts and valuation allowances, except for residential
    mortgage loans
    held-for-sale
    accounted for under the fair value option which are carried at
    estimated fair value, as determined on a recurring basis, and
    certain commercial and residential mortgage loans carried at the
    lower of cost or estimated fair value, as determined on a
    nonrecurring basis.




 



     
        • 

    
    Policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances.




 



     
        • 

    
    Real estate
    held-for-investment,
    including related improvements, is stated at cost, less
    accumulated depreciation.




 



     
        • 

    
    Real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership
    interests in which we have more than a minor equity interest or
    more than a minor influence over the joint ventures or
    partnership’s operations, but where we do not have a
    controlling interest and are not the primary beneficiary, are
    carried using the equity method of accounting. We use the cost
    method of accounting for investments in real estate joint
    ventures and other limited partnership interests in which we
    have a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over
    the joint ventures or the partnership’s operations.




 



     
        • 

    
    Other invested assets consist principally of freestanding
    derivatives with positive estimated fair values and leveraged
    leases. Freestanding derivatives are carried at estimated fair
    value with changes in estimated fair value reflected in income
    for both non-qualifying derivatives and derivatives in fair
    value hedging relationships. Changes in estimated fair value of
    derivatives in cash flow or in net investments in foreign
    operations hedging relationships are reflected as a separate
    component of other comprehensive income (loss). Leveraged leases
    are recorded net of non-recourse debt.





 


    Investments not carried at estimated fair value in our
    consolidated financial statements — principally,
    mortgage loans
    held-for-investment,
    policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures, other
    limited partnerships and leveraged leases — may have
    estimated fair values which are substantially higher or lower
    than the carrying value reflected in our consolidated financial
    statements. Each of these asset classes is regularly evaluated
    for impairment under the accounting guidance appropriate to the
    respective asset class.




    
    47



Table of Contents






    Our
    Valuation of Fixed Maturity, Equity and Trading Securities and
    Short-Term Investments May Include Methodologies, Estimations
    and Assumptions Which Are Subject to Differing Interpretations
    and Could Result in Changes to Investment Valuations that May
    Materially Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or
    Financial Condition


 


    Fixed maturity, equity, and trading securities and short-term
    investments which are reported at estimated fair value on the
    consolidated balance sheets represent the majority of our total
    cash and investments. We have categorized these securities into
    a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to
    the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy
    gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets
    for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the
    lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset
    or liability’s classification within the fair value
    hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to
    its valuation. The input levels are as follows:


 




    
    
    



     
        Level 1 

    
    Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. We define active markets based on average
    trading volume for equity securities. The size of the bid/ask
    spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed
    maturity securities.




 



     
        Level 2 

    
    Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can
    be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data for substantially the full term of the assets or
    liabilities.




 



     
        Level 3 

    
    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or
    liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity’s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of fair value
    requires significant management judgment or estimation.





 


    At December 31, 2009, 8.0%, 84.3% and 7.7% of these
    securities represented Level 1, Level 2 and
    Level 3, respectively. The Level 1 securities
    primarily consist of certain U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed fixed maturity securities; certain foreign
    government fixed maturity securities; exchange-traded common
    stock; certain trading securities; and certain short-term
    investments. The Level 2 assets include fixed maturity and
    equity securities priced principally through independent pricing
    services using observable inputs. These fixed maturity
    securities include most U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed securities, as well as the majority of
    U.S. and foreign corporate securities, RMBS, commercial
    mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”), state and
    political subdivision securities, foreign government securities,
    and ABS. Equity securities classified as Level 2 primarily
    consist of non-redeemable preferred securities and certain
    equity securities where market quotes are available but are not
    considered actively traded and are priced by independent pricing
    services. We review the valuation methodologies used by the
    independent pricing services on an ongoing basis and ensure that
    any changes to valuation methodologies are justified.
    Level 3 assets include fixed maturity securities priced
    principally through independent non-binding broker quotations or
    market standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are
    not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or
    corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 consists of
    less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading
    activity or where less price transparency exists around the
    inputs to the valuation methodologies including: U.S. and
    foreign corporate securities — including below
    investment grade private placements; RMBS; CMBS; and
    ABS — including all of those supported by
    sub-prime
    mortgage loans. Equity securities classified as Level 3
    securities consist principally of non-redeemable preferred stock
    and common stock of companies that are privately held or
    companies for which there has been very limited trading activity
    or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the
    valuation. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for the estimated fair values of these
    assets by hierarchy level.


 


    Prices provided by independent pricing services and independent
    non-binding broker quotations can vary widely even for the same
    security.




    
    48



Table of Contents





    The determination of estimated fair values by management in the
    absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation
    methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable;
    and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the
    circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific
    point in time, based on available market information and
    judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of
    the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the
    credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors
    considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate,
    maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund
    requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and
    quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of
    different methodologies and assumptions may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts.


 


    During periods of market disruption including periods of
    significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening
    credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value
    certain of our securities, for example
    sub-prime
    mortgage-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities where the
    underlying loans are Alt-A and CMBS, if trading becomes less
    frequent
    and/or
    market data becomes less observable. In times of financial
    market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active
    markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. In
    such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus
    require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such,
    valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less
    observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation
    methods which are more sophisticated or require greater
    estimation thereby resulting in estimated fair values which may
    be greater or less than the amount at which the investments may
    be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented
    credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the
    valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated
    financial statements and the
    period-to-period
    changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly.
    Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations or financial condition.


 



    If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well, We May Be Required to Recognize
    an Impairment of Our Goodwill or Other Long-Lived Assets or to
    Establish a Valuation Allowance Against the Deferred Income Tax
    Asset, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or
    Financial Condition


 


    Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire
    subsidiaries and other businesses over the estimated fair value
    of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill
    at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is
    performed based upon estimates of the estimated fair value of
    the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates.
    The reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one
    level below that operating segment if discrete financial
    information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at
    that level. The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is
    impacted by the performance of the business. The performance of
    our businesses may be adversely impacted by prolonged market
    declines. If it is determined that the goodwill has been
    impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the
    impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such
    writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations or financial position. See
    “ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates —
    Goodwill.”


 


    Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also
    require impairment testing to determine whether changes in
    circumstances indicate that MetLife will be unable to recover
    the carrying amount of the asset group through future operations
    of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the
    estimated fair value of those assets. Such writedowns could have
    a material adverse effect on our results of operations or
    financial position.


 


    Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences
    between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities.
    Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to
    determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s
    determination include the performance of the business including
    the ability to generate future taxable income. If based on
    available information, it is more likely than not that the
    deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation
    allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net
    income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations or financial position.


 


    Further or continued deterioration of financial market
    conditions could result in a decrease in the expected future
    earnings of our reporting units, which could lead to an
    impairment of some or all of the goodwill associated with them
    in future periods. Such deterioration could also result in the
    impairment of long-lived assets and the establishment of a
    valuation allowance on our deferred income tax assets.




    
    49



Table of Contents






    If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus
    Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC and VOBA Vary
    Significantly, We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization
    and/or Impair the DAC and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our
    Results of Operations or Financial Condition


 


    We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
    renewal business. Those costs that vary with and are primarily
    related to the production of new and renewal business are
    deferred and referred to as DAC. The recovery of DAC is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    The amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally
    on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to
    policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest
    crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to
    administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance
    counterparties and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, we anticipate that investment
    returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of
    such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into
    management’s estimates of gross profits or margins, which
    generally are used to amortize such costs. If the estimates of
    gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortization
    of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual
    experience is known and would result in a charge to income.
    Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in
    an acceleration of amortization of the DAC related to variable
    annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a
    charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations or financial condition.


 


    VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in
    a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion
    of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the
    right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and
    annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. VOBA is
    based on actuarially determined projections. Actual experience
    may vary from the projections. Revisions to estimates result in
    changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which
    the revisions are made and could result in an impairment and a
    charge to income. Also, as VOBA is amortized similarly to DAC,
    an acceleration of the amortization of VOBA would occur if the
    estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated.
    Accordingly, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated
    in the period in which the actual experience is known and would
    result in a charge to net income. Significant or sustained
    equity market declines could result in an acceleration of
    amortization of the VOBA related to variable annuity and
    variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to
    income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations or financial condition.


 


    See “ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired”
    for further consideration of DAC and VOBA .


 



    Changes
    in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board or Other Standard-Setting Bodies May Adversely
    Affect Our Financial Statements


 


    Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP,
    which is periodically revised
    and/or
    expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to
    adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized
    authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting
    standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets
    or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to
    financial instruments, structures or transactions, as well as to
    issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of
    accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet
    implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on
    Form 10-K
    and
    Form 10-Q.
    An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such
    proposals are subject to change through the exposure process
    and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot
    be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting
    standards we are required to adopt could change the current
    accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial
    statements and that such changes could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.




    
    50



Table of Contents






    Changes
    in Our Discount Rate, Expected Rate of Return and Expected
    Compensation Increase Assumptions for Our Pension and Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plans May Result in Increased Expenses
    and Reduce Our Profitability


 


    We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan
    costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience.
    These assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount
    rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected
    increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation.
    Changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses
    and reduce our profitability. See Note 17 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on how changes
    in these assumptions would affect plan costs.


 



    Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Variable Annuity Guarantee Benefits that
    Protect Policyholders Against Significant Downturns in Equity
    Markets May Increase the Volatility of Our Results Related to
    the Inclusion of an Own Credit Adjustment in the Estimated Fair
    Value of the Liability for These Guaranteed
    Benefits


 


    In determining the valuation of certain variable annuity
    guarantee benefit liabilities that are carried at estimated fair
    value, we must consider our own credit standing, which is not
    hedged. A decrease in our own credit spread could cause the
    value of these liabilities to increase, resulting in a reduction
    to net income. An increase in our own credit spread could cause
    the value of these liabilities to decrease, resulting in an
    increase to net income. Because this credit adjustment is
    determined, at least in part, by taking into consideration
    publicly available information relating to our publicly-traded
    debt, the overall condition of fixed income markets may impact
    this adjustment. The credit premium implied in our
    publicly-traded debt, instruments may not always necessarily
    reflect our actual credit rating or our claims paying ability.
    Recently, the fixed income markets have experienced a period of
    extreme volatility which has impacted market liquidity and
    credit spreads. An increase in credit default swap spreads has
    at times been even more pronounced than in the fixed income cash
    markets. In a broad based market downturn, an increase in our
    own credit spread could result in net income being relatively
    flat when a deterioration in other market inputs required for
    the estimate of fair value would otherwise result in a
    significant reduction in net income. The inclusion of our own
    credit standing in this case has the effect of muting the actual
    net income losses recognized. In subsequent periods, if our
    credit spreads improve relative to the overall market, we could
    have a reduction of net income in an overall improving market.


 



    Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Products that Protect Policyholders
    Against Significant Downturns in Equity Markets May Decrease Our
    Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results if Hedging or
    Risk Management Strategies Prove Ineffective, Result in Higher
    Hedging Costs and Expose Us to Increased Counterparty
    Risk


 


    Certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed
    benefits. These include guaranteed death benefits, guaranteed
    withdrawal benefits, lifetime withdrawal guarantees, guaranteed
    minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income
    benefits. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in
    equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest
    rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future
    policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities
    associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net
    income. We use reinsurance in combination with derivative
    instruments to mitigate the liability exposure and the
    volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and
    while we believe that these and other actions have mitigated the
    risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the
    guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative
    counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. In addition, we
    are subject to the risk that hedging and other management
    procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder
    behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events,
    produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management
    techniques employed. These, individually or collectively, may
    have a material adverse effect on net income, financial
    condition or liquidity. We are also subject to the risk that the
    cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases,
    resulting in a reduction to net income.




    
    51



Table of Contents






    We May
    Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets
    Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed
    Block Policies


 


    MLIC’s plan of reorganization, as amended (the
    “Plan”), required that we establish and operate an
    accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that
    the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own
    certain individual insurance policies of MLIC are met. See
    Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. We allocated assets to the closed block in an amount
    that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated
    revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are
    reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and
    liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not
    limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain
    expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the
    policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the
    experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate
    adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. We cannot
    provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows
    generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue
    from the policies included in the closed block will be
    sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these
    policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the
    shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for
    competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments
    with our general account funds.


 


    The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of those
    policies. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are
    greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block
    was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies
    included in the closed block may be greater than they would be
    in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be
    available for distribution over time only to closed block
    policyholders.


 



    Litigation
    and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our
    Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and
    Harm to Our Reputation


 


    We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory
    investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating
    our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our
    pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings
    specific to us and others generally applicable to business
    practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection
    with our insurance operations, plaintiffs’ lawyers may
    bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits
    alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or
    underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product
    design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits
    and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers.
    Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may
    seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and
    treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any
    probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for
    substantial periods of time. See Note 16 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with
    any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties can include how
    fact finders will view individually and in their totality
    documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of
    witnesses’ testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.


 


    On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information
    with respect to litigation and contingencies to be reflected in
    our consolidated financial statements. The review includes
    senior legal and financial personnel. Unless stated elsewhere
    herein, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for
    particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a
    reasonable degree of certainty. Liabilities are established when
    it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of
    the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
    established for a number of matters noted in Note 16 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. It is possible
    that some of the matters could require us to pay damages or make
    other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could
    not be estimated at December 31, 2009.




    
    52



Table of Contents





    MLIC and its affiliates are currently defendants in numerous
    lawsuits including class actions and individual suits, alleging
    improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance
    policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products.


 


    In addition, MLIC is a defendant in a large number of lawsuits
    seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries
    allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. These lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC’s employees during the
    period from the 1920’s through approximately the
    1950’s and have alleged that MLIC learned or should have
    learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among
    other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those
    health risks. Additional litigation relating to these matters
    may be commenced in the future. The ability of MLIC to estimate
    its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable
    uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be
    dynamic and subject to change. The availability of reliable data
    is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty the
    numerous variables that can affect liability estimates,
    including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve
    claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and
    future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a
    particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the
    jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of
    tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow
    plaintiffs to pursue claims against MLIC when exposure took
    place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known,
    and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their
    amounts. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the
    aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the
    total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain
    and may vary significantly from year to year. Accordingly, it is
    reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims
    may be materially greater than the liability recorded by us in
    our consolidated financial statements and that future charges to
    income may be necessary. The potential future charges could be
    material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which
    they are recorded.


 


    We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as
    information requests, subpoenas and books and record
    examinations, from state and federal regulators and other
    authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant
    regulatory action against us could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the
    litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer
    significant reputational harm, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations, including our ability to attract new customers,
    retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees.
    Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the
    price of stocks of companies in our industry.


 


    We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation,
    unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and
    other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated
    claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion,
    investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future,
    and we could become subject to further investigations and have
    lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In
    addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting
    investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions
    and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    Proposals
    to Regulate Compensation, if Implemented, Could Hinder or
    Prevent Us From Attracting and Retaining Management and Other
    Employees with the Talent and Experience to Manage and Conduct
    Our Business Effectively


 


    Congress is considering the possibility of regulating the
    compensation that financial institutions may provide to their
    executive officers and other employees. In addition, the Federal
    Reserve Board and the FDIC have proposed guidelines on incentive
    compensation that, if adopted, may apply to or impact MetLife as
    a bank holding company. These restrictions could hinder or
    prevent us from attracting and retaining management and other
    employees with the talent and experience to manage and conduct
    our business effectively. They could also limit our tax
    deductions for certain compensation paid to executive employees
    in excess of specified amounts. We may also be subject to
    requirements and restrictions on our business if we participate
    in some of the programs established in whole or in part under
    EESA.




    
    53



Table of Contents






    Changes
    in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations May
    Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability


 


    Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to
    insurance products that are also “securities,”
    including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance
    policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiaries
    and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance
    contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under
    these securities laws. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity
    contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate
    accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered
    separate account is generally divided into
    sub-accounts,
    each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is
    itself a registered investment company under the Investment
    Company Act. In addition, the variable annuity contracts and
    variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts
    are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act. Other
    subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under
    the Exchange Act, and are members of, and subject to, regulation
    by FINRA. Further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as
    investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers
    Act of 1940, and are also registered as investment advisers in
    various states, as applicable.


 


    Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to
    protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect
    investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and
    regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking
    and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict
    the conduct of business for failure to comply with the
    securities laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or
    regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. In particular, changes in the regulations
    governing the registration and distribution of variable
    insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards
    for suitability of variable annuity contracts or variable life
    insurance policies, or changes in the standard of care which
    sales representatives owe to their customers with respect to the
    sale of variable insurance products, could have such a material
    adverse effect.


 



    Changes
    in Tax Laws, Tax Regulations, or Interpretations of Such Laws or
    Regulations Could Increase Our Corporate Taxes; Changes in Tax
    Laws Could Make Some of Our Products Less Attractive to
    Consumers


 


    Changes in tax laws, Treasury and other regulations promulgated
    thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could
    increase our corporate taxes. The Obama Administration has
    proposed corporate tax changes. Changes in corporate tax rates
    could affect the value of deferred tax assets and deferred tax
    liabilities. Furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could
    be impacted by future earnings levels.


 


    Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less
    attractive to consumers. A shift away from life insurance and
    annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce
    our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets
    upon which we earn investment income. The Obama Administration
    has proposed certain changes to individual income tax rates and
    rules applicable to certain policies.


 


    We cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting
    corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the
    specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at
    all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    We May
    be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our
    Products


 


    We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with
    demonstrated ability. In addition, there is competition for
    representatives with other types of financial services firms,
    such as independent broker-dealers. We compete with other
    insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our
    financial position, support services and compensation and
    product features. We continue to undertake several initiatives
    to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the
    efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
    provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in
    attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual
    insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of
    operations and financial condition could be





    
    54



Table of Contents





    materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in
    attracting and retaining agents. See “Business —
    Competition.”


 



    MetLife,
    Inc.’s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of
    Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions
    of the MetLife Policyholder Trust


 


    Under the Plan, we established the MetLife Policyholder Trust
    (the “Trust”) to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc.
    common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving
    cash or policy credits under the plan. At February 22,
    2010, 231,759,896 shares, or 28.3%, of the outstanding
    shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock, are held in the Trust.
    Because of the number of shares held in the Trust and the voting
    provisions of the Trust, the Trust may affect the outcome of
    matters brought to a stockholder vote.


 


    Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions
    described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of
    common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the
    recommendations given by MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such
    recommendations, as directed by the board. As a result of the
    voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may be
    able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of
    stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so
    long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common
    stock.


 


    If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified
    in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the
    Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in
    proportion to the instructions it receives. These actions
    include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has
    properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a
    nominee or nominees of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    or a vote on a stockholder’s proposal to oppose a board
    nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a
    vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders,
    subject to certain conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or
    substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or
    dissolution, of MetLife, Inc., in each case requiring a vote of
    stockholders under applicable Delaware law;




 



     
        • 

    
    any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion
    of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities
    or other property; and




 



     
        • 

    
    any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    to amend or redeem the rights under the stockholder rights plan,
    other than a proposal with respect to which we have received
    advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that
    the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action
    under Delaware law.





 


    If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions,
    the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by
    the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which
    will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually
    given by Trust beneficiaries.


 



    State
    Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws
    and Our Stockholder Rights Plan May Delay, Deter or Prevent
    Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might
    Consider in Their Best Interests


 


    State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may
    delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders
    might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may
    prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium
    over the market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock
    offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence
    of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may
    adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife,
    Inc.’s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging
    takeover attempts in the future.


 


    Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would
    face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or
    prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of MetLife, Inc.
    might consider in their best interests. First, the insurance
    laws and regulations of the various states in which MetLife,
    Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries are





    
    55



Table of Contents





    organized may delay or impede a business combination involving
    us. State insurance laws prohibit an entity from acquiring
    control of an insurance company without the prior approval of
    the domestic insurance regulator. Under most states’
    statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance
    company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the
    voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. We
    are also subject to banking regulations, and may in the future
    become subject to additional regulations. The Obama
    Administration and Congress have made various proposals that
    could restrict or impede consolidation, mergers and acquisitions
    by systemically significant firms
    and/or bank
    holding companies. In addition, the Investment Company Act would
    require approval by the contract owners of our variable
    contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any
    affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our
    variable contracts. Finally, FINRA approval would be necessary
    for a change of control of any FINRA registered broker-dealer
    that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of MetLife, Inc.


 


    In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law may affect the ability of an “interested
    stockholder” to engage in certain business combinations,
    including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional
    shares, for a period of three years following the time that the
    stockholder becomes an “interested stockholder.” An
    “interested stockholder” is defined to include persons
    owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding
    voting stock of a corporation.


 


    MetLife, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws
    also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a
    takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best
    interests. These provisions may adversely affect prevailing
    market prices for MetLife, Inc.’s common stock and include:
    classification of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors into
    three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings
    by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of
    candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals
    to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority
    voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of
    the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.


 


    The stockholder rights plan, which was adopted by MetLife,
    Inc.’s Board of Directors in September 1999, might also
    have anti-takeover effects. The provisions of the rights plan
    might render an unsolicited takeover more difficult or less
    likely to occur or might prevent such a takeover, even though
    such takeover may offer MetLife, Inc.’s stockholders the
    opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing
    market price and may be favored by a majority of MetLife,
    Inc.’s stockholders. The rights plan is scheduled to expire
    at the close of business on April 4, 2010, and the Board of
    Directors does not currently intend to renew it.


 



    The
    Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May
    Adversely Affect the Level of Claim Losses We Incur and the
    Value of Our Investment Portfolio


 


    The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States
    and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened
    security measures in response to these types of threats may
    cause significant volatility in global financial markets and
    result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions
    to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in
    our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines
    in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity
    caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We cannot predict
    whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain
    investments may suffer losses as a result of financial,
    commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions
    might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or
    principal on their securities or mortgage loans. The continued
    threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance
    prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us
    to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were
    able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist actions
    also could disrupt our operations centers in the United States
    or abroad. In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions
    could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than
    anticipated. See “— Difficult Conditions in the
    Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and
    These Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future.”




    
    56



Table of Contents






    The
    Occurrence of Events Unanticipated In Our Disaster Recovery
    Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Impair Our
    Ability to Conduct Business Effectively


 


    In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an
    epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus,
    a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our
    disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact
    on our ability to conduct business and on our results of
    operations and financial position, particularly if those
    problems affect our computer-based data processing,
    transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable
    data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide
    reliable service. Despite our implementation of a variety of
    security measures, our computer systems could be subject to
    physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from
    unauthorized tampering. In addition, in the event that a
    significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event
    of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could
    be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere
    with our suppliers’ ability to provide goods and services
    and our employees’ ability to perform their job
    responsibilities.


 



    Our
    Associates May Take Excessive Risks Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Financial Condition and Business


 


    As an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of being paid
    to accept certain risks. The associates who conduct our
    business, including executive officers and other members of
    management, sales managers, investment professionals, product
    managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by
    making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk.
    These include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines
    and standards, product design and pricing, determining what
    assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which
    business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. Although
    we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our
    compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our
    associates incentives to take excessive risks, associates may
    take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation
    programs and practices. Similarly, although we employ controls
    and procedures designed to monitor associates’ business
    decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, there can
    be no assurance that these controls and procedures are or may be
    effective. If our associates take excessive risks, the impact of
    those risks could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition or business operations.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B