ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

CHANGES IN MARKET INTEREST RATES MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY

     Some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed
annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes
in interest rates will reduce our "spread," or the difference between the
amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account
and the rate of return we are able to earn on general account investments
intended to support obligations under the contracts. Our spread is a key
component of our net income.

     As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to
reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or
sold at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may
prepay or redeem the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and
mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in
order to borrow at lower market rates, which

                                        27


exacerbates this risk. Lowering interest crediting rates can help offset
decreases in investment margins on some products. However, our ability to lower
these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum
rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. As a
result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. Our
expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of
DAC and significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization,
thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. In addition,
during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products
may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting in
increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment
of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance
policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period when our new
investments carry lower returns. A decline in market interest rates could also
reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy
obligations. Accordingly, declining interest rates may materially adversely
affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and
significantly reduce our profitability.

     Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our
profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be
able to replace, in a timely manner, the assets in our general account with
higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to
keep interest sensitive products competitive. We therefore may have to accept a
lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and
greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy
loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek
investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. This process
may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell invested assets at a time
when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in market
interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. Unanticipated
withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of DAC,
which would increase our current expenses and reduce net income. An increase in
market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of
our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair values of the
fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment
portfolio.

INDUSTRY TRENDS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PROFITABILITY OF OUR BUSINESSES

     Our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that
affect the insurance industry. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Results of
Operations -- Industry Trends."

     Financial Environment.  The current financial environment presents a
challenge for the life insurance industry. A low general level of short-term and
long-term interest rates can have a negative impact on the demand for and the
profitability of spread-based products such as fixed annuities, guaranteed
interest contracts and universal life insurance. In addition, continued low
interest rates could put pressure on interest spreads on existing blocks of
business as declining investment portfolio yields draw closer to minimum
crediting rate guarantees on certain products. The compression of the yields
between spread-based products and interest rates will be a concern until new
money rates on corporate bonds are higher than overall life insurer investment
portfolio yields. Recent volatile equity market performance has also presented
challenges for life insurers, as fee revenue from variable annuities and pension
products is tied to separate account balances, which reflect equity market
performance. Also, variable annuity product demand often mirrors consumer demand
for equity market investments. See "-- Changes in Market Interest Rates May
Significantly Affect Our Profitability."

     Competitive Pressures.  The life insurance industry is becoming
increasingly competitive. The product development and product life-cycles have
shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with
respect to product features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in
brand equity, product development and risk management, which are among the
fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In
addition, several of the industry's products can be quite homogeneous and
subject to intense price competition, and sufficient scale, financial strength
and flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life
insurance industry. Larger market participants tend to have the capacity to
invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology
needed to offer the
                                        28


superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry
client base. See "-- Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share
and Profitability" and "Business -- Competition."

     Regulatory Changes.  The life insurance industry is regulated at the state
level, with some products also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers
introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital
requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance
industry. Regulation recently adopted or currently under review can potentially
impact the reserve and capital requirements for several of the industry's
products. In addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices
reviews of several markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities,
variable annuities and group products. See "-- Our Insurance Businesses Are
Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Profitability and Limit
Growth" and "Business -- Regulation -- Insurance Regulation."

     Pension Plans.  Recently, a number of corporations have announced that they
have already frozen or intend to freeze their traditional pension plans and,
instead, offer their employees a 401(k) program. This transition from a defined
benefit to a defined contribution program may adversely affect our annuities
business, as these traditional pension plans historically have been large
customers of such products.

A DECLINE IN EQUITY MARKETS OR AN INCREASE IN VOLATILITY IN EQUITY MARKETS MAY
ADVERSELY AFFECT SALES OF OUR INVESTMENT PRODUCTS AND OUR PROFITABILITY

     Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in
three principal ways.

     First, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of separate
account products, such as variable annuities, variable life insurance and mutual
funds that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may
cause some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce
investments in those products.

     Second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material
adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our savings and investment
products and services. Because these products and services depend on fees
related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the
equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment
assets we manage. The retail annuity business in particular is highly sensitive
to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the markets will decrease
revenues and earnings in variable annuity products.

     Third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products that
protect policyholders against significant downturns in the equity markets. For
example, we offer variable annuity products with guaranteed features, such as
minimum death and withdrawal benefits. These guarantees may be more costly than
expected in volatile or declining equity market conditions, causing us to
increase liabilities for future policy benefits, negatively affecting net
income.

THE PERFORMANCE OF OUR INVESTMENTS DEPENDS ON CONDITIONS THAT ARE OUTSIDE OUR
CONTROL, AND OUR NET INVESTMENT INCOME CAN VARY FROM PERIOD TO PERIOD

     The performance of our investment portfolio depends in part upon the level
of and changes in interest rates, equity prices, real estate values, the
performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors
included in our portfolio and other factors that are beyond our control. Changes
in these factors can affect our net investment income in any period, and such
changes can be substantial.

     We invest a portion of our invested assets in pooled investment funds that
make private equity investments. The amount and timing of income from such
investment funds tend to be uneven as a result of the performance of the
underlying private equity investments, which can be difficult to predict, as
well as the timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular
events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds' schedules
for making distributions and their needs for cash. As a result, the amount of
income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter
to quarter.

                                        29


COMPETITIVE FACTORS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR MARKET SHARE AND PROFITABILITY

     Our business segments are subject to intense competition. We believe that
this competition is based on a number of factors, including service, product
features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit
ratings, ebusiness capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial services companies,
such as banks, broker/dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers,
employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of
insurance and investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader array
of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurers,
have higher claims paying ability ratings. Some may also have greater financial
resources with which to compete. National banks, which may sell annuity products
of life insurers in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases
for financial services products.

     Many of our insurance products, particularly those offered by our
Institutional segment, are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a
risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from
competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition
may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products,
as well as our ability to sell products in the future.

     In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses
have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. Many
of our competitors in these businesses offer a broader array of investment
products and services and are better known than us as sellers of annuities and
other investment products. See "Business-Competition."

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN SALES REPRESENTATIVES FOR OUR PRODUCTS

     We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our
insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong competition exists among
insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with
other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial
position, support services and compensation and product features. We continue to
undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force while continuing
to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in attracting and
retaining new agents. Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment
products and our results of operations and financial condition could be
materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining
agents. See "Business -- Competition."

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN ACTUAL CLAIMS EXPERIENCE AND UNDERWRITING AND RESERVING
ASSUMPTIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS

     Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual
claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices
for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and
claims. Our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established
based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future
benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these
liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including estimated
premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the
event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be
paid and the investment returns on the assets we purchase with the premiums we
receive. We establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits
based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. To the
extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying
assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to
increase our liabilities.

     Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy
benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will
ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the
estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well
into the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on changes in
the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual
experience. We charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the
period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. If the liabilities
originally established for future benefit payments prove

                                        30


inadequate, we must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings
negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

OUR RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MAY LEAVE US EXPOSED TO UNIDENTIFIED
OR UNANTICIPATED RISK, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS

     Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other
things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of
transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources to develop our
risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the
future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be fully effective.
Many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of
observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As
a result, these methods may not predict future exposures, which could be
significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. Other risk
management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets,
clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or
otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate,
complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. See "Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk."

CATASTROPHES MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT LIABILITIES FOR POLICYHOLDER CLAIMS AND
REINSURANCE AVAILABILITY

     Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic
mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of
deaths. Significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last
century, but neither the likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future
pandemic can be predicted. The effectiveness of external parties, including
governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and
severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses
experienced by us. In our group insurance operations, a localized event that
affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could
cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These events
could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period
and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our
financial condition. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Impact of Hurricanes" and Note 12 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Our Auto & Home business has experienced, and will likely in the future
experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on the
business, results of operations and financial condition of the Auto & Home
segment. Although Auto & Home makes every effort to minimize our exposure to
catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these
efforts may not succeed. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including
hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter
weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires, and
man-made events such as terrorist attacks. Historically, substantially all of
our catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. However,
catastrophes may also affect other Auto & Home coverages. Due to their nature,
we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes.

     Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our homeowners
coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the
northeastern United States (including Long Island and the Connecticut, Rhode
Island and Massachusetts shorelines), the Gulf Coast (including Mississippi and
Louisiana) and Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along
the New Madrid fault line in the central United States and in the Pacific
Northwest. Losses incurred by Auto & Home from all catastrophes, net of
reinsurance but before taxes, were $286 million, $189 million and $77 million in
2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The 2005 number includes loss and loss
adjustment expenses and reinstatement and additional reinsurance-related
premiums which were caused by the magnitude of reinsurance recoverables.

     The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total
amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of
the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however,
pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce
significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated.
Claims resulting from natural or man-

                                        31


made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial
results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our
profitability or harm our financial condition. Also, catastrophic events could
harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the
probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new
business could also be affected. It is possible that increases in the value and
geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could
increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future.

     Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish
liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the
probable losses arising from the event. We cannot be certain that the
liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim
liabilities. From time to time, states have passed legislation that has the
effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation
restricting an insurer's ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. While
we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions
imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple
catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.

     Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property and
casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain
catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable
rates in the future. See "-- Reinsurance May Not Be Available, Affordable or
Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses."

A DOWNGRADE OR A POTENTIAL DOWNGRADE IN OUR FINANCIAL STRENGTH OR CREDIT RATINGS
COULD RESULT IN A LOSS OF BUSINESS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized Statistical
Rating Organizations ("NRSROs") publish as indicators of an insurance company's
ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to
maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our
products and our competitive position. See "Business -- Company
Ratings -- Insurer Financial Strength Ratings."

     Following the announcement of the acquisition of Travelers, the financial
strength rating of each of TIC and its subsidiary, The Travelers Life and
Annuity Company ("TLAC"), was lowered one notch by certain rating agencies. We
believe the negative impact of these downgrades on Travelers' financial results
was immaterial. However, further downgrades in these or our other insurance
subsidiaries' financial strength ratings, or an announced potential for a
downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations in many ways, including:

     - reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment
       products;

     - adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and
       independent sales intermediaries;

     - materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and
       withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;

     - requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to
       remain competitive;

     - adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable
       prices or at all; and

     - adversely affecting our relationships with credit counterparties.

     In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance
subsidiaries, NRSROs also publish credit ratings for MetLife and several of our
subsidiaries. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer's ability to meet
the terms of the debt obligations in a timely manner. See "Business -- Company
Ratings -- Credit Ratings." A downgrade in our credit ratings could increase the
cost of borrowing, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.

     Following the announcement of the acquisition of Travelers, several NRSROs
took a number of rating actions, the net result of which is that various credit
and financial strength ratings have a "negative" outlook, rather than the former
"stable" outlook. We do not expect that all ratings will return to "stable"
until such time as we have established, to the sole satisfaction of each agency,
clear evidence of the successful integration
                                        32


of the Travelers businesses and that we are reducing our financial leverage to
levels closer to that which existed prior to the acquisition.

     As a result of the additional securities that we issued to finance a
portion of the purchase price for the acquisition, our leverage ratio increased
moderately. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. While we
expect our leverage ratio to decrease over time as a result of the accumulation
of retained earnings, there is no assurance that it will decrease as we expect.
The increased leverage will reduce our flexibility in managing our capital.

     Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors, some of which
relate to general economic conditions and circumstances outside of our control.
In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess
our financial strength and creditworthiness, and may alter these models from
time to time at their discretion. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies
may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions
of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business.

IF THE TRAVELERS BUSINESS DOES NOT PERFORM WELL, WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT
CHARGES TO WRITE DOWN THE GOODWILL ESTABLISHED IN THE ACQUISITION

     As a result of the acquisition of Travelers, we established goodwill of
$4,177 million. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we must test goodwill annually for
impairment and, if we determine that the goodwill has been impaired, we must
write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding
charge to income. If the Travelers business does not perform well, it may impact
the goodwill impairment test which could result in a goodwill write down. Such
write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or
financial position.

DEFAULTS, DOWNGRADES OR OTHER EVENTS IMPAIRING THE VALUE OF OUR FIXED MATURITY
SECURITIES PORTFOLIO MAY REDUCE OUR EARNINGS

     We are subject to the risk that the issuers of the fixed maturity
securities we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. At
December 31, 2005, the fixed maturity securities of $230 billion in our
investment portfolio represented 75.2% of our total cash and invested assets.
The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance or
other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities could cause
the value of our fixed maturities portfolio and our net earnings to decline and
the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to
increase. A ratings downgrade affecting particular issuers or securities could
also have a similar effect. With recent downgrades in the automotive sector, as
well as economic uncertainty and increasing interest rates, credit quality of
issuers could be adversely affected. Any event reducing the value of these
securities other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

DEFAULTS ON OUR MORTGAGE AND CONSUMER LOANS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR
PROFITABILITY

     Our mortgage and consumer loan investments face default risk. Our mortgage
and consumer loans are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural
and residential properties, as well as automobiles. At December 31, 2005, our
mortgage and consumer loan investments of $37 billion represented 12.2% of our
total cash and invested assets. At December 31, 2005, loans that were either
delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled less than 1% of our mortgage
and consumer loan investments. The performance of our mortgage and consumer loan
investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. In addition, substantially
all of our mortgage loan investments have balloon payment maturities. An
increase in the default rate of our mortgage and consumer loan investments could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

SOME OF OUR INVESTMENTS ARE RELATIVELY ILLIQUID

     Our investments in privately placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage and
consumer loans, equity real estate, including real estate joint ventures and
other limited partnership interests, are relatively illiquid. These
                                        33


asset classes represented 24.9% of the carrying value of our total cash and
invested assets as of December 31, 2005. If we require significant amounts of
cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements, we may have
difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them
for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both.

FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND FOREIGN SECURITIES MARKETS
COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY

     We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-U.S.
dollar denominated securities and investments in foreign subsidiaries. If the
currencies of the non-U.S. dollar denominated securities we hold in our
investment portfolios decline against the U.S. dollar, our investment returns,
and thus our profitability, may be adversely affected. Although we use foreign
currency swaps and forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate
risk, we can not provide assurance that these methods will be effective or that
our counterparties will perform their obligations. See "Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

     From time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced
severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of
their currencies. Our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by
our investments in emerging markets.

     We have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in
our foreign subsidiaries with assets denominated in their respective foreign
currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local
operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of
these results into our consolidated financial statements. Although we take
certain actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation
could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions
or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuation. See "Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk."

OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS FACE POLITICAL, LEGAL, OPERATIONAL AND OTHER RISKS
THAT COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT THOSE OPERATIONS OR OUR PROFITABILITY

     Our international operations face political, legal, operational and other
risks that we do not face in our domestic operations. We face the risk of
discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price
controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from
transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they
operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other
currencies. Some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to
continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. See
"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." In addition, we
rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems
resulting from workers' associations and trade unions in some countries. If our
business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or
most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country.

     We are currently planning to expand our international operations in markets
where we operate and in selected new markets. This may require considerable
management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any
significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign
markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in
existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions.
Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating
margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted.

     The business we acquired from Travelers includes operations in several
foreign countries, including Australia, Brazil, Argentina, the United Kingdom,
Belgium, Poland, Japan and Hong Kong. See "Business -- International." Those
operations, and operations in other new markets, are subject to the risks
described above, as well as our unfamiliarity with the business, legal and
regulatory environment in any of those countries.

                                        34


     In recent years, the operating environment in Argentina has been
challenging. In Argentina, we are principally engaged in the pension business.
This business has incurred significant losses in recent years as a result of
actions taken by the Argentinean government in response to a sovereign debt
crisis in December 2001. Further governmental or legal actions related to
pension reform could impact our obligations to our customers and could result in
future losses in our Argentinean operations.

REINSURANCE MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE, AFFORDABLE OR ADEQUATE TO PROTECT US AGAINST
LOSSES

     As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance
for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. See
"Business -- Reinsurance Activity." For example, we currently reinsure up to 90%
of the mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most new individual life
insurance policies that we write through our various franchises and for certain
individual life policies the retention limits remained unchanged. While life
reinsurance generally binds the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured
at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the
availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. In certain
circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also
increase. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of
loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the
amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to
incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain
sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our
ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with
respect to those policies we issue.

     As a result of consolidation of the life reinsurance market and other
market factors, capacity in the life reinsurance market has decreased. Further,
life reinsurance is currently available at higher prices and on less favorable
terms than those prevailing between 1997 and 2003. Further consolidation,
regulatory developments, catastrophic events or other significant developments
affecting the pricing and availability of reinsurance could materially harm the
reinsurance market and our ability to enter into reinsurance contracts.

IF THE COUNTERPARTIES TO OUR REINSURANCE ARRANGEMENTS OR TO THE DERIVATIVE
INSTRUMENTS WE USE TO HEDGE OUR BUSINESS RISKS DEFAULT OR FAIL TO PERFORM, WE
MAY BE EXPOSED TO RISKS WE HAD SOUGHT TO MITIGATE, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY
ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     We use reinsurance and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in
various circumstances. In general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct
liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.
Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. We cannot
provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed
to us now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely
basis. A reinsurer's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments
under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

     In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks.
We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards,
interest rate and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. See
"Business -- Investments." If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their
obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk
will be ineffective. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

OUR INSURANCE BUSINESSES ARE HEAVILY REGULATED, AND CHANGES IN REGULATION MAY
REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY AND LIMIT OUR GROWTH

     Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and
other laws and regulations. State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our
U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the
insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and the states
in which they are licensed. Our non-U.S. insurance operations are principally
regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they
are domiciled and operate. See "Business -- Regulation -- Insurance Regulation."

                                        35


     State laws in the United States grant insurance regulatory authorities
broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:

     - licensing companies and agents to transact business;

     - calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory
       requirements;

     - mandating certain insurance benefits;

     - regulating certain premium rates;

     - reviewing and approving policy forms;

     - regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the
       imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution
       arrangements and payment of inducements;

     - regulating advertising;

     - protecting privacy;

     - establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency
       standards;

     - fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates
       for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity
       contracts;

     - approving changes in control of insurance companies;

     - restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between
       affiliates; and

     - regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.

     State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance
companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of
insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Because the amount
and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have
currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. See
"Business -- Regulation -- Insurance Regulation -- Guaranty associations and
similar arrangements."

     State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners ("NAIC") regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations
applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and
regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of
the consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

     The NAIC and several states' legislatures have recently considered the need
for regulations and/or laws to address agent or broker practices that have been
the focus of recent investigations of broker compensation in the State of New
York and in other jurisdictions. The NAIC has adopted a Compensation Disclosure
Amendment to its Producers Licensing Model Act which, if adopted by the states,
would require disclosure by agents or brokers to customers that insurers will
compensate such agents or brokers for the placement of insurance and documented
acknowledgement of this arrangement in cases where the customer also compensates
the agent or broker. Several states have recently enacted laws similar to the
NAIC amendment. Some other states, including California and New York, are
considering additional provisions that would require the disclosure of the
amount of compensation and/or require (where an agent or broker represents more
than one insurer) placement of the "best coverage." We cannot predict how many
states may promulgate the NAIC amendment or similar regulations or the extent to
which these regulations may have a material adverse impact on our business.

     Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the
business of insurance. However, federal legislation and administrative policies
in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies.
These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation,
pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition,
various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed.
These proposals include "The State Modernization and Regulatory Transparency
Act," which

                                        36


would maintain state-based regulation of insurance, but would affect state
regulation of certain aspects of the business of insurance, including rates,
agent and company licensing and market conduct examinations. We cannot predict
whether this or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such
proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.

     Our international operations are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions
in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to that of the state
regulation outlined above. Many of our customers and independent sales
intermediaries also operate in regulated environments. Changes in the
regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business
relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our
products. Accordingly, these changes could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

     Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and
personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially
increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing
business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations.

     From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of
our subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on
us. We cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could
adversely affect our operations. In addition, the interpretations of regulations
by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact,
particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements.

LEGAL AND REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS AND ACTIONS ARE INCREASINGLY COMMON IN THE
INSURANCE BUSINESS AND MAY RESULT IN FINANCIAL LOSSES AND HARM TO OUR REPUTATION

     We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and
actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk
of class action lawsuits. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include
proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices
in the industries in which we operate. In connection with our insurance
operations, plaintiffs' lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and
individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or
underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design,
disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a
periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other
duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us
may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble
damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable
liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. See
"Legal Proceedings" and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and
the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may be
inherently impossible to ascertain with any degree of certainty. Inherent
uncertainties can include how fact finders will view individually and in their
totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of witnesses'
testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context
of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial
or on appeal. Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how
opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence
and applicable law.

     On a quarterly and yearly basis, we review relevant information with
respect to liabilities for litigation and contingencies to be reflected in our
consolidated financial statements. The review includes senior legal and
financial personnel. Unless stated elsewhere herein, estimates of possible
additional losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the
ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty. See "Legal
Proceedings" and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred
and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
established for a number of the matters noted in "Legal Proceedings" and Note 12
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. It is possible that some of the
matters could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish
accruals in amounts that could not be estimated as of December 31, 2005.

                                        37


     Metropolitan Life and its affiliates are currently defendants in hundreds
of lawsuits raising allegations of improper marketing and sales of individual
life insurance policies or annuities. These lawsuits are generally referred to
as "sales practices claims." Metropolitan Life is also a defendant in thousands
of lawsuits seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries
allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing products. These
lawsuits principally have been based upon allegations relating to certain
research, publication and other activities of one or more of Metropolitan Life's
employees during the period from the 1920's through approximately the 1950's and
have alleged that Metropolitan Life learned or should have learned of certain
health risks posed by asbestos and, among other things, improperly publicized or
failed to disclose those health risks. Additional litigation relating to these
matters may be commenced in the future. The ability of Metropolitan Life to
estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty
due to numerous factors. The availability of data is limited and it is difficult
to predict with any certainty numerous variables that can affect liability
estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims,
the disease mix and severity of disease, the jurisdiction of claims filed, tort
reform efforts and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their
amounts. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate
amount of any liability that Metropolitan Life may ultimately incur is
uncertain. Accordingly, it is reasonably possible that our total exposure to
asbestos claims may be greater than the liability recorded by us in our
consolidated financial statements and that future charges to income may be
necessary. The potential future charges could be material in particular
quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded. In addition,
Metropolitan Life and MetLife, Inc. have been named as defendants in several
lawsuits brought in connection with Metropolitan Life's demutualization in 2000.

     We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information
requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal
regulators and other authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant
regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even if we
ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we
could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including
our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit
and retain employees. Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility
in the price of stocks of companies in our industry.

     Recently, the insurance industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny
by regulatory and law enforcement authorities. This scrutiny includes the
commencement of investigations and other proceedings by the New York State
Attorney General and other governmental authorities relating to allegations of
improper conduct in connection with the payment of, and disclosure with respect
to, contingent commissions paid by insurance companies to intermediaries, the
solicitation and provision of fictitious or inflated quotes, the use of
inducements in the sale of insurance products and the accounting treatment for
finite insurance and reinsurance or other non-traditional or loss mitigation
insurance and reinsurance products.

     One possible result of these investigations and attendant lawsuits is that
many insurance industry practices and customs may change, including, but not
limited to, the manner in which insurance is marketed and distributed through
independent brokers and agents. Our business strategy contemplates that we will
rely heavily on both intermediaries and our internal sales force to market and
distribute insurance products. We cannot predict how industry regulation with
respect to the use of intermediaries may change. Such changes, however, could
adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could
materially affect our growth and profitability.

     Recent industry-wide inquiries also include those regarding market timing
and late trading in mutual funds and variable insurance products and, generally,
the marketing of products. The SEC has commenced an investigation with respect
to market timing and late trading in a limited number of privately-placed
variable insurance contracts that were sold through our subsidiary, General
American Life Insurance Company ("General American"). As previously reported, in
May 2004, General American received a Wells Notice stating that the SEC staff is
considering recommending that the SEC bring a civil action alleging violations
of the U.S. securities laws against General American. Under SEC procedures,
General American can avail itself of the opportunity to respond to the SEC staff
before it makes a formal recommendation regarding whether

                                        38


any action alleging violations of the U.S. securities laws should be considered.
General American has responded to the Wells Notice. We are fully cooperating
with regard to this investigation.

     Other recent industry-wide inquiries include those relating to finite
insurance and reinsurance. We have received a subpoena from the Connecticut
Attorney General requesting information regarding our participation in any
finite reinsurance transactions. We have also received information requests
relating to finite insurance or reinsurance from other regulatory and
governmental entities. We believe we have appropriately accounted for
transactions of this type and intend to cooperate fully with these information
requests. We believe that a number of other industry participants have received
similar requests from various regulatory and governmental authorities. It is
reasonably possible that we may receive additional requests. We will fully
cooperate with all such requests.

     We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation, unasserted claims
probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us will not
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results
of operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation,
unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be
commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations
and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In
addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or
proceedings could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide
regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

CHANGES IN U.S. FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS AND REGULATIONS MAY AFFECT OUR
OPERATIONS AND OUR PROFITABILITY

     Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance
products that are also "securities," including variable annuity contracts and
variable life insurance policies. As a result, some of our subsidiaries and
their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and
policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. These
subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance
policies through separate accounts that are registered with the SEC as
investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Each
registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of
which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered
investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. In
addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies
issued by the separate accounts are registered with the SEC under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended. Other subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as
broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are
members of, and subject to, regulation by the NASD. Further, some of our
subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and are also registered as
investment advisers in various states, as applicable.

     Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to
ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the
securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients.
These laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking
and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of
business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. Changes
to these laws or regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations. In particular, changes in the regulations governing the registration
and distribution of variable insurance products, such as changes in the
regulatory standards under which the sale of a variable annuity contract or
variable life insurance policy is considered suitable for a particular customer,
could have such a material adverse effect.

CHANGES IN TAX LAWS COULD MAKE SOME OF OUR PRODUCTS LESS ATTRACTIVE TO CONSUMERS

     Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to
consumers. For example, reductions in the federal income tax that investors are
required to pay on long-term capital gains and on some dividends paid on stock
may provide an incentive for some of our customers and potential customers to
shift assets into mutual funds and away from products, including life insurance
and annuities, designed to defer

                                        39


taxes payable on investment returns. Because the income taxes payable on
long-term capital gains and some dividends paid on stock have been reduced,
investors may decide that the tax-deferral benefits of annuity contracts are
less advantageous than the potential after-tax income benefits of mutual funds
or other investment products that provide dividends and long-term capital gains.
A shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred
products would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the
assets upon which we earn investment income.

     We cannot predict whether any other legislation will be enacted, what the
specific terms of any such legislation will be or how, if at all, this
legislation or any other legislation could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

AS A HOLDING COMPANY, METLIFE, INC. DEPENDS ON THE ABILITY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES
TO TRANSFER FUNDS TO IT TO PAY DIVIDENDS AND MEET ITS OBLIGATIONS

     MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial
subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. Dividends
from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing
arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its
obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. If the cash the Holding
Company receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt
service and other holding company obligations, the Holding Company may be
required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of
additional equity or the sale of assets.

     The payment of dividends and other distributions to the Holding Company by
its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. In
general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed "special" and
require insurance regulatory approval. In addition, insurance regulators may
prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by its insurance
subsidiaries to the Holding Company if they determine that the payment could be
adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. See "Business --
Regulation -- Insurance Regulation," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital
Resources -- The Holding Company" and Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

     The maximum amount of dividends which could be paid to the Holding Company
by Metropolitan Life, TIC, MPC and Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company
("MTL"), in 2005, without prior regulatory approval, was $880 million, $0
million, $187 million and $119 million, respectively. During the year ended
December 31, 2005, Metropolitan Life paid $880 million in ordinary dividends for
which prior insurance regulatory approval was not required and $2,320 million in
special dividends as approved by the Superintendent. TIC has not paid any
dividends since its acquisition by the Holding Company and may not make dividend
payments for a two-year period following the date of acquisition without
regulatory approval. MPC paid $400 million in special dividends, as approved by
the Rhode Island Superintendent of Insurance, during the year ended December 31,
2005. MTL paid $54 million in ordinary dividends for which prior insurance
regulatory approval was not required and $873 million in special dividends as
approved by the Delaware Superintendent of Insurance during the year ended
December 31, 2005. MetLife Mexico, S.A. paid dividends to the Holding Company of
$276 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, various
subsidiaries paid $19 million in total to the Holding Company for the year ended
December 31, 2005. The maximum amount of dividends which Metropolitan Life, TIC,
MPC and MTL may pay to us in 2006 without prior regulatory approval is $863
million, $0 million, $178 million, and $85 million, respectively. If paid before
a specified date in 2006, some or all of an otherwise ordinary dividend may be
deemed special by the relevant regulatory authority and require approval.

     Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our
foreign subsidiaries to the Holding Company could be subject to taxation or
other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable
law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in
the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate.

                                        40


WE MAY NEED TO FUND DEFICIENCIES IN OUR CLOSED BLOCK; ASSETS ALLOCATED TO THE
CLOSED BLOCK BENEFIT ONLY THE HOLDERS OF CLOSED BLOCK POLICIES

     The plan of reorganization entered into in connection with Metropolitan
Life's 2000 demutualization required that we establish and operate an accounting
mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend
expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of
Metropolitan Life are met. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. We allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will
produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies
included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to
support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but
not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and
taxes, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales
in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for
appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. We cannot
provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the
closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in
the closed block will be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under
these policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. Even if
they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support
policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds.

     The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block
assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in the closed block will
benefit only the holders of those policies. In addition, to the extent that
these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed
block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the
closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block.
Any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed
block policyholders.

THE CONTINUED THREAT OF TERRORISM AND ONGOING MILITARY ACTIONS MAY ADVERSELY
AFFECT THE LEVEL OF CLAIM LOSSES WE INCUR AND THE VALUE OF OUR INVESTMENT
PORTFOLIO

     The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States and
abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in
response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global
financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional
disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our
investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets
and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We
cannot predict whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain
investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic
disruptions, or how any such disruptions might affect the ability of those
companies to pay interest or principal on their securities. The continued threat
of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced
insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we
otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices.
Terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the United States
or abroad. In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in
higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated.

THE OCCURRENCE OF EVENTS UNANTICIPATED IN OUR DISASTER RECOVERY SYSTEMS AND
MANAGEMENT CONTINUITY PLANNING COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT BUSINESS
EFFECTIVELY

     In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial
accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated
problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact
on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and
financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based
data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy
valuable data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable
service. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our
servers could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and similar
disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition,
in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the
event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be
severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers'
ability to provide goods and services and our employees ability to perform their
job responsibilities.
                                        41


WE FACE UNFORESEEN LIABILITIES ARISING FROM OTHER POSSIBLE ACQUISITIONS AND
DISPOSITIONS OF BUSINESSES

     We have engaged in numerous dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in
the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. There could be
unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the businesses that we may
sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. In addition, there may
be liabilities that we fail, or we are unable, to discover in the course of
performing due diligence investigations on each business that we have acquired
or may acquire.

ITEM 1B