Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Difficult
    Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy
    Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and
    Results of Operations and These Conditions May Not Improve in
    the Near Future


 


    Our business and results of operations are materially affected
    by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy
    generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world.
    Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global
    capital markets or in particular markets or financial asset
    classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we
    have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities
    are sensitive to changing market factors. Disruptions in one
    market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset
    classes. Although the disruption in the global financial markets
    that began in late 2007 has moderated, not all global financial
    markets are functioning normally, and some remain reliant upon
    government intervention and liquidity. Upheavals in the
    financial markets can also affect our business through their
    effects on general levels of economic activity, employment and
    customer behavior. Although the recent recession in the U.S.
    ended in June of 2009, the recovery from the recession has been
    below historic averages and the unemployment rate is expected to
    remain high for some time. In addition, inflation is expected to
    remain at low levels for some time. Some economists believe that
    some level of disinflation and deflation risk remains in the
    U.S. economy. The global recession and disruption of the
    financial markets has led to concerns over capital markets
    access and the solvency of certain European Union member states,
    including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain. The
    Japanese economy, to which we face increased exposure as a
    result of the Acquisition, continues to experience low nominal
    growth, a deflationary environment, and weak consumer spending.


 


    Our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain
    under pressure in such circumstances and our profit margins
    could erode. Also, in the event of extreme prolonged market
    events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur
    significant capital
    and/or
    operating losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we
    are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.


 


    We are a significant writer of variable annuity products. The
    account values of these products decrease as a result of
    downturns in capital markets. Decreases in account values reduce
    the fees generated by our variable annuity products, cause the
    amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
    (“DAC”) to accelerate and could increase the level of
    insurance liabilities we must carry to support those variable
    annuities issued with any associated guarantees.


 


    Factors such as consumer spending, business investment,
    government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital
    markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic
    environment and, ultimately, the amount and





    
    28



Table of Contents





    profitability of our business. In an economic downturn
    characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower
    corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer
    spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products
    could be adversely affected. Group insurance, in particular, is
    affected by the higher unemployment rate. In addition, we may
    experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or
    surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer
    paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums
    altogether. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings
    negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition. The
    recent market turmoil has precipitated, and may continue to
    raise the possibility of, legislative, regulatory and
    governmental actions. We cannot predict whether or when such
    actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could
    have on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition. See “— Actions of the
    U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Other
    Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and
    Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended
    Effect or Could Adversely Affect MetLife’s Competitive
    Position,” “— Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank
    Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth,” “— Our
    Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Heavily
    Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth” and
    “— Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability.”


 



    Adverse
    Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect
    Our Ability to Meet Liquidity Needs, Access to Capital and Cost
    of Capital


 


    The capital and credit markets are sometimes subject to periods
    of extreme volatility and disruption. Such volatility and
    disruption could cause liquidity and credit capacity for certain
    issuers to be limited.


 


    We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our
    debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities
    lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities.
    Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our
    operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources
    of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations,
    deposit funds, and cash flow from our investment portfolio and
    assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily
    convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets
    also include short-term instruments such as funding agreements
    and commercial paper. Sources of capital in normal markets
    include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term debt,
    junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and
    equity securities.


 


    In the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact
    on our capital and liquidity beyond expectations and our current
    resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek
    additional financing. The availability of additional financing
    will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions,
    regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit,
    the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of
    credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings
    and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers
    or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or
    short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment
    losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to
    a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be
    impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take
    negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity
    may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be
    able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable
    terms, or at all.


 


    Our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we
    are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on
    short notice under securities lending agreements.


 


    Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit
    markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate
    our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such
    market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely
    manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy regulatory capital
    requirements (under both insurance and banking laws); and access
    the capital necessary to grow our business. See
    “Business — U.S. Regulation —
    Financial Holding Company Regulation” for information
    relating to the possible impact of Basel II and
    Basel III on the Company. As such, we may be forced to
    delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than
    we would otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue
    shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive
    cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and
    significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of
    operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory
    capital position could be materially adversely affected by
    disruptions in the financial markets.




    
    29



Table of Contents






    Actions
    of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York and
    Other Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and
    Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended
    Effect or Could Adversely Affect MetLife’s Competitive
    Position


 


    In recent years, Congress, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
    the FDIC, the U.S. Treasury and other agencies of the
    U.S. federal government took a number of increasingly
    aggressive actions (in addition to continuing a series of
    interest rate reductions that began in the second half of
    2007) intended to provide liquidity to financial
    institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor confidence
    in particular troubled institutions, to prevent or contain the
    spread of the financial crisis and to spur economic growth. Most
    of these programs have largely run their course or been
    discontinued. More likely to be relevant to MetLife, Inc. is the
    monetary policy implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, as
    well as Dodd-Frank, which will significantly change financial
    regulation in the U.S. in a number of areas that could
    affect MetLife. Given the large number of provisions that must
    be implemented through regulatory action, we cannot predict what
    impact this could have on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.


 


    It is not certain what effect the enactment of Dodd-Frank will
    have on the financial markets, the availability of credit, asset
    prices and MetLife’s operations. See
    “— Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our
    Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and
    Limit Our Growth.” In addition, the U.S. federal
    government (including the FDIC) and private lenders have
    instituted programs to reduce the monthly payment obligations of
    mortgagors
    and/or
    reduce the principal payable on residential mortgage loans. As a
    result of such programs or of any legislation requiring loan
    modifications, we may need to maintain or increase our
    engagement in similar activities in order to comply with program
    or statutory requirements and to remain competitive. We cannot
    predict whether the funds made available by the
    U.S. federal government and its agencies will be enough to
    continue stabilizing or to further revive the financial markets
    or, if additional amounts are necessary, whether the Federal
    Reserve Board will make funds available, whether Congress will
    be willing to make the necessary appropriations, what the
    public’s sentiment would be towards any such
    appropriations, or what additional requirements or conditions
    might be imposed on the use of any such additional funds.


 


    The choices made by the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve
    Board and the FDIC in their distribution of funds under EESA and
    any future asset purchase programs, as well as any decisions
    made regarding the imposition of additional regulation on large
    financial institutions may have, over time, the effect of
    supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services
    industry more than others. Some of our competitors have
    received, or may in the future receive, benefits under one or
    more of the federal government’s programs. This could
    adversely affect our competitive position. See
    “— Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability.” See also
    “— New and Impending Compensation and Corporate
    Governance Regulations Could Hinder or Prevent Us From
    Attracting and Retaining Management and Other Employees with the
    Talent and Experience to Manage and Conduct Our Business
    Effectively” and “— Our Insurance, Brokerage
    and Banking Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth.”


 



    Our
    Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Heavily
    Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth


 


    Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of
    insurance and other laws and regulations. See
    “Business — U.S. Regulation —
    Insurance Regulation.” State insurance laws regulate most
    aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance
    subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the
    states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they
    are licensed. Our
    non-U.S. insurance
    operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory
    authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled or
    operate. See “Business — International
    Regulation.”


 


    State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities
    broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    licensing companies and agents to transact business;




 



     
        • 

    
    calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with
    statutory requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    mandating certain insurance benefits;







    
    30



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    regulating certain premium rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    reviewing and approving policy forms;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through
    the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices,
    distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating advertising;




 



     
        • 

    
    protecting privacy;




 



     
        • 

    
    establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and
    solvency standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and
    minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance
    policies and annuity contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    approving changes in control of insurance companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions
    between affiliates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.





 


    State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess
    insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
    policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an
    assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have
    currently established for these potential liabilities may not be
    adequate. See “Business —
    U.S. Regulation — Insurance
    Regulation — Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements.”


 


    State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly reexamine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies
    and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly
    regulate the business of insurance. However,
    Dodd-Frank
    allows federal regulators to compel state insurance regulators
    to liquidate an insolvent insurer under some circumstances if
    the state regulators have not acted within a specific period. It
    also establishes the Federal Insurance Office which has the
    authority to participate in the negotiations of international
    insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S. The
    Federal Insurance Office also is authorized to collect
    information about the insurance industry and recommend
    prudential standards.


 


    Federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas
    can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies.
    These areas include financial services regulation, securities
    regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy,
    tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms
    of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been
    proposed from time to time, including proposals for the
    establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance
    companies. Other aspects of our insurance operations could also
    be affected by Dodd-Frank. For example, Dodd-Frank imposes new
    restrictions on the ability of affiliates of insured depository
    institutions (such as MetLife Bank) to engage in proprietary
    trading or sponsor or invest in hedge funds or private equity
    funds. See “— Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could
    Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth.”


 


    As a federally chartered national association, MetLife Bank is
    subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and
    guidelines. Federal banking laws regulate most aspects of the
    business of MetLife Bank, but certain state laws may apply as
    well. MetLife Bank is principally regulated by the OCC, the
    Federal Reserve and the FDIC.


 


    Federal banking laws and regulations address various aspects of
    MetLife Bank’s business and operations with respect to,
    among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    chartering to carry on business as a bank;




 



     
        • 

    
    the permissibility of certain activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintaining minimum capital ratios;







    
    31



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    capital management in relation to the bank’s assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    dividend payments;




 



     
        • 

    
    safety and soundness standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    loan loss and other related liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    liquidity;




 



     
        • 

    
    financial reporting and disclosure standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    counterparty credit concentration;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions;




 



     
        • 

    
    lending limits (and, in addition, Dodd-Frank includes the credit
    exposures arising from securities lending by MetLife Bank within
    lending limits otherwise applicable to loans);




 



     
        • 

    
    payment of interest;




 



     
        • 

    
    unfair or deceptive acts or practices;




 



     
        • 

    
    privacy; and




 



     
        • 

    
    bank holding company and bank change of control.





 


    Federal and state banking regulators regularly re-examine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and their
    products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the bank and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on the financial condition and results
    of operations of MetLife Bank.


 


    In addition, Dodd-Frank establishes a new Bureau of Consumer
    Financial Protection that supervises and regulates institutions
    providing certain financial products and services to consumers.
    Although the consumer financial services to which this
    legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in
    which we engage, the new Bureau has authority to regulate
    consumer services provided by MetLife Bank and non-insurance
    consumer services provided elsewhere throughout MetLife.
    Dodd-Frank established a statutory standard for Federal
    pre-emption of state consumer financial protection laws, which
    standard will require national banks to comply with many state
    consumer financial protection laws that previously were
    considered preempted by Federal law. As a result, the regulatory
    and compliance burden on MetLife Bank may increase and could
    adversely affect its business and results of operations.
    Dodd-Frank also includes provisions on mortgage lending,
    anti-predatory lending and other regulatory and supervisory
    provisions that could impact the business and operations of
    MetLife Bank.


 


    Dodd-Frank also authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of
    conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing
    personalized investment advice to retail and other customers.
    This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of
    the customer without regard to the financial or other interest
    of the broker or dealer providing the advice. See
    “Business — U.S. Regulation —
    Banking Regulation” and “— Changes in
    U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and
    State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity
    Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our
    Profitability.”


 


    In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
    published Basel III for banks and bank holding companies,
    such as MetLife, Inc. Assuming regulators in the U.S. endorse
    and adopt Basel III, it will require banks and bank holding
    companies to hold greater amounts of capital, to comply with
    requirements for short-term liquidity and to reduce reliance on
    short-term funding sources. See “Business —
    U.S. Regulation — Financial Holding Company
    Regulation — Capital” and “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Industry Trends — Financial and
    Economic Environment.” It is not clear how these new
    requirements will compare to the enhanced prudential standards
    that may apply to us under Dodd-Frank. See
    “— Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our
    Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and
    Limit Our Growth.”




    
    32



Table of Contents





    As a bank holding company, MetLife, Inc.’s ability to pay
    dividends may be restricted by the Federal Reserve Bank of
    New York. In addition, the ability of MetLife Bank and
    MetLife, Inc. to pay dividends could be restricted by any
    additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a
    result of the enactment of Dodd-Frank
    and/or the
    endorsement and adoption by the U.S. of Basel III.


 


    The FDIC has the right to assess FDIC-insured banks for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to depositors.
    Because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our
    control, the liabilities that we have currently established for
    these potential liabilities may not be adequate. In addition,
    Dodd-Frank will result in increased assessment for banks with
    assets of $10.0 billion or more, which includes MetLife
    Bank.


 


    Our international operations are subject to regulation in the
    jurisdictions in which they operate, as described further under
    “Business — International Regulation.” A
    significant portion of our revenues are generated through
    operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in
    early stages of economic and political development. Our
    international operations may be materially adversely affected by
    foreign authorities and regulators, such as through
    nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of
    limits on foreign ownership, changes in laws or their
    interpretation or application, political instability, dividend
    limitations, price controls, currency exchange controls or other
    restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these
    operations out of the countries in which they operate or
    converting local currencies we hold to U.S. dollars or
    other currencies, as well as adverse actions by foreign
    governmental authorities and regulators. This may also impact
    many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries.
    Changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may
    affect our business relationships with them and their ability to
    purchase or distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.


 


    Our international operations are subject to local laws and
    regulations, and we expect the scope and extent of regulation
    outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally
    to continue to increase. The authority of our international
    operations to conduct business is subject to licensing
    requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations
    are subject to modification and revocation. The regulatory
    environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in
    laws could have a material adverse effect on us and our foreign
    operations. See “— Our International Operations
    Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including
    Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, that Could
    Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability”
    and “Business — International Regulation.”


 


    Furthermore, the increase in our international operations as a
    result of the acquisition of ALICO may also subject us to
    increased supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, since the
    size of a bank holding company’s foreign activities is
    taken as an indication of the holding company’s complexity.
    It may also have an effect on the manner in which MetLife, Inc.
    is required to calculate its RBC.


 


    Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time
    consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
    regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect
    compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations
    or audits of MetLife, Inc.’s regulated subsidiaries that
    could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We
    cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken
    that could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the
    interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and
    statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in
    areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements.


 


    We are also subject to other regulations and may in the future
    become subject to additional regulations. See
    “Business — U.S. Regulation” and
    “Business — International Regulation.”




    
    33



Table of Contents






    Various
    Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations,
    Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth


 


    On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed Dodd-Frank.
    Various provisions of Dodd-Frank could affect our business
    operations and our profitability and limit our growth. For
    example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    As a large, interconnected bank holding company with assets of
    $50 billion or more, or possibly as an otherwise
    systemically important financial company, MetLife, Inc. will be
    subject to enhanced prudential standards imposed on systemically
    significant financial companies. Enhanced standards will be
    applied to RBC, liquidity, leverage (unless another, similar,
    standard is appropriate), resolution plan and credit exposure
    reporting, concentration limits, and risk management.
    Off-balance sheet activities are required to be accounted for in
    meeting capital requirements. In addition, if it were determined
    that MetLife posed a substantial threat to U.S. financial
    stability, the applicable federal regulators would have the
    right to require it to take one or more other mitigating actions
    to reduce that risk, including limiting its ability to merge
    with or acquire another company, terminating activities,
    restricting its ability to offer financial products or requiring
    it to sell assets or off-balance sheet items to unaffiliated
    entities. Enhanced standards would also permit, but not require,
    regulators to establish requirements with respect to contingent
    capital, enhanced public disclosures and short-term debt limits.
    These standards are described as being more stringent than those
    otherwise imposed on bank holding companies; however, the
    Federal Reserve Board is permitted to apply them on an
    institution-by-institution
    basis, depending on its determination of the institution’s
    riskiness. In addition, under Dodd-Frank, all bank holding
    companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding
    companies, such as MetLife, Inc. will be required to be
    “well capitalized” and “well managed” as
    defined by the Federal Reserve Board, on a consolidated basis
    and not just at their depository institution(s), a higher
    standard than was applicable to financial holding companies
    before
    Dodd-Frank.




 



     
        • 

    
    MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company, will have to meet
    minimum leverage ratio and RBC requirements on a consolidated
    basis to be established by the Federal Reserve Board that are
    not less than those applicable to insured depository
    institutions under so-called prompt corrective action
    regulations as in effect on the date of the enactment of
    Dodd-Frank. One consequence of these new rules will ultimately
    be the inability of bank holding companies to include
    trust-preferred securities as part of their Tier 1 capital.
    Because of the phase-in period for these new rules, they should
    have little practical effect on MetLife’s ability to treat
    its currently outstanding trust-preferred securities as part of
    its Tier 1 capital, but they do prevent MetLife, Inc. from
    treating the common equity units issued as part of the
    consideration for the Acquisition as Tier I capital, since
    the new rules apply immediately to instruments issued after
    May 19, 2010.




 



     
        • 

    
    Under the provisions of Dodd-Frank relating to the resolution or
    liquidation of certain types of financial institutions,
    including bank holding companies, if MetLife, Inc. were to
    become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its
    obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with
    the FDIC as receiver. For this new regime to be applicable, a
    number of determinations would have to be made, including that a
    default by the affected company would have serious adverse
    effects on financial stability in the U.S. If the FDIC were to
    be appointed as the receiver for such a company, the liquidation
    of that company would occur under the provisions of the new
    liquidation authority, and not under the Bankruptcy Code. In
    such a liquidation, the holders of such company’s debt
    could in certain a respects be treated differently than under
    the Bankruptcy Code. In particular, unsecured creditors and
    shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company
    being liquidated. The FDIC is authorized to establish rules for
    the priority of creditors’ claims and, under certain
    circumstances, to treat similarly situated creditors
    differently. These provisions could apply to some financial
    institutions whose outstanding debt securities we hold in our
    investment portfolios. Dodd-Frank also provides for the
    assessment of bank holding companies with assets of
    $50.0 billion or more, non-bank financial companies
    supervised by the Federal Reserve Bank, and other financial
    companies with assets of $50.0 billion or more to cover the
    costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new
    liquidation authority. Although it is not possible to assess the
    full impact of the liquidation authority at this time, it could
    affect the funding costs of large bank holding companies or
    financial companies that might be viewed as systemically
    significant. It could also lead to an increase in secured
    financings.




 



     
        • 

    
    Dodd-Frank also includes a new framework of regulation of the
    OTC derivatives markets which will require clearing of certain
    types of transactions currently traded OTC and could potentially
    impose additional costs,








    
    34



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    including new capital, reporting and margin requirements and
    additional regulation on the Company. Increased margin
    requirements on MetLife, Inc.’s part and a smaller universe
    of securities that will qualify as eligible collateral could
    reduce its liquidity and require an increase in its holdings of
    cash and government securities with lower yields causing a
    reduction in income. However, increased margin requirements and
    the expanded ability to transfer trades between MetLife,
    Inc.’s counterparties could reduce MetLife, Inc.’s
    exposure to its counterparties’ default. MetLife, Inc. uses
    derivatives to mitigate a wide range of risks in connection with
    its businesses, including the impact of increased benefit
    exposures from our annuity products that offer guaranteed
    benefits. The derivative clearing requirements of
    Dodd-Frank
    could increase the cost of our risk mitigation and expose us to
    the risk of a default by a clearinghouse or one of its members.
    In addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other
    management procedures prove ineffective in reducing the risks to
    which insurance policies expose us or that unanticipated
    policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market
    events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk
    management techniques employed. Any such losses could be
    increased by any higher costs of writing derivatives (including
    customized derivatives) that might result from the enactment of
    Dodd-Frank.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Dodd-Frank restricts the ability of insured depository
    institutions and of companies, such as MetLife, Inc., that
    control an insured depository institution and their affiliates,
    to engage in proprietary trading and to sponsor or invest in
    funds (hedge funds and private equity funds) that rely on
    certain exemptions from the Investment Company Act. Dodd-Frank
    provides an exemption for investment activity by a regulated
    insurance company or its affiliate solely for the general
    account of such insurance company if such activity is in
    compliance with the insurance company investments laws of the
    state or jurisdiction in which such company is domiciled and the
    appropriate Federal regulators after consultation with relevant
    insurance commissioners have not jointly determined such laws to
    be insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the
    institution or the financial stability of the U.S.
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the appropriate Federal
    regulatory authorities are permitted under the legislation to
    impose, as part of rulemaking, additional capital requirements
    and other restrictions on any exempted activity. Dodd-Frank
    provides for a period of study and rule making during which the
    effects of the statutory language may be clarified. Among other
    considerations, the study is to assess and include
    recommendations so as to appropriately accommodate the business
    of insurance within an insurance company subject to regulation
    in accordance with relevant insurance company investments laws.
    While these provisions of Dodd-Frank are supposed to accommodate
    the business of insurance, until the related study and
    rulemaking are complete, it is unclear whether MetLife, Inc. may
    have to alter any of its future investment activities to comply.




 



     
        • 

    
    Until various studies are completed and final regulations are
    promulgated pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the full impact of
    Dodd-Frank on the investments and investment activities and
    insurance and annuity products of MetLife, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries remains unclear. For example, besides directly
    limiting our future investment activities, Dodd-Frank could
    potentially negatively impact the market for, the returns from,
    or liquidity in, primary and secondary investments in private
    equity funds and hedge funds that are connected to (either
    through a fund sponsorship or investor relationship) an insured
    depository institution. The number of sponsors of such funds
    going forward may diminish, which may impact our available fund
    investment opportunities. Although Dodd-Frank provides for
    various transition periods for coming into compliance, fund
    sponsors that are subject to Dodd-Frank, and whose funds we have
    invested in, may have to spin off their funds business or reduce
    their ownership stakes in their funds, thereby potentially
    impacting our related investments in such funds. In addition,
    should such funds be required or choose to liquidate or sell
    their underlying assets, the market value and liquidity of such
    assets or the broader related asset classes could negatively be
    affected, including securities and real estate assets that
    MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries hold or may plan to sell.
    Secondary sales of fund interests at significant discounts by
    banking institutions and their affiliates, which are not fund
    sponsors but nevertheless are subject to the divestment
    requirements of
    Dodd-Frank,
    could reduce the returns realized by investors such as MetLife,
    Inc. and its subsidiaries seeking to access liquidity by selling
    their fund interests. In addition, our existing derivatives
    counterparties and the financial institutions subject to
    Dodd-Frank in which we have invested also could be negatively
    impacted by Dodd-Frank. See also “— New and
    Impending Compensation and Corporate Governance Regulations
    Could Hinder or Prevent Us From Attracting and Retaining
    Management and Other Employees with the Talent and Experience to
    Manage and Conduct Our Business Effectively.”







    
    35



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In addition, Dodd-Frank statutorily imposes the requirement that
    MetLife, Inc. serve as a source of strength for MetLife Bank.





 


    The addition of a new regulatory regime over MetLife, Inc. and
    its subsidiaries, the likelihood of additional regulations, and
    the other changes discussed above could require changes to
    MetLife, Inc.’s operations. Whether such changes would
    affect our competitiveness in comparison to other institutions
    is uncertain, since it is possible that at least some of our
    competitors, for example insurance holding companies that
    control thrifts, rather than banks, will be similarly affected.
    Competitive effects are possible, however, if MetLife, Inc. were
    required to pay any new or increased assessments and capital
    requirements are imposed, and to the extent any new prudential
    supervisory standards are imposed on MetLife, Inc. but not on
    its competitors. We cannot predict whether other proposals will
    be adopted, or what impact, if any, the adoption of Dodd-Frank
    or other proposals and the resulting studies and regulations
    could have on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations or on our dealings with other financial companies.
    See also “— Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
    Businesses are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May
    Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” and
    “— New and Impending Compensation and Corporate
    Governance Regulations Could Hinder or Prevent Us From
    Attracting and Retaining Management and Other Employees with the
    Talent and Experience to Manage and Conduct Our Business
    Effectively.”


 


    Moreover, Dodd-Frank potentially affects such a wide range of
    the activities and markets in which MetLife, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries engage and participate that it may not be possible
    to anticipate all of the ways in which it could affect us. For
    example, many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are
    based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or
    statistics based on historical models. Historical market
    behavior may be altered by the enactment of Dodd-Frank. As a
    result of this enactment and otherwise, these methods may not
    fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly
    greater than our historical measures indicate.


 



    The
    Resolution of Several Issues Affecting the Financial Services
    Industry Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Reported Results or
    on Our Relations with Current and Potential
    Customers


 


    We will continue to be subject to legal and regulatory actions
    in the ordinary course of our business, both in the U.S. and
    internationally. This could result in a review of business sold
    in the past under previously acceptable market practices at the
    time. Regulators are increasingly interested in the approach
    that product providers use to select third-party distributors
    and to monitor the appropriateness of sales made by them. In
    some cases, product providers can be held responsible for the
    deficiencies of third-party distributors.


 


    As a result of publicity relating to widespread perceptions of
    industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries
    and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms.


 


    In Asia, where MetLife derives and will continue to derive a
    significant portion of its income, regulatory regimes are
    developing at different speeds, driven by a combination of
    global factors and local considerations. New requirements may be
    introduced that are retrospectively applied to sales made prior
    to their introduction.


 



    We Are
    Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which
    May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial
    Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income
    to Vary from Period to Period


 


    We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets
    risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads,
    equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange
    rates, market volatility, the performance of the global economy
    in general, the performance of the specific obligors, including
    governments, included in our portfolio and other factors outside
    our control.


 


    Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the
    market price and cash flow variability associated with changes
    in interest rates. Changes in interest rates will impact the net
    unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income investment
    portfolio. If long-term interest rates rise dramatically within
    a six to twelve month time period, certain of our life insurance
    businesses and fixed annuity business may be exposed to
    disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the
    risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a
    rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate
    fixed income investments in an unrealized loss position. Due to
    the long-term





    
    36



Table of Contents





    nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our life
    insurance businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities,
    and structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term
    interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and
    increased hedging costs. In other situations, declines in
    interest rates may result in increasing the duration of certain
    life insurance liabilities, creating asset-liability duration
    mismatches.


 


    Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive
    instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be
    adversely affected by changes in interest rates from
    governmental monetary policies, domestic and international
    economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our
    control. Changes in interest rates will impact both the net
    unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income portfolio
    and the rates of return we receive on funds invested. Our
    mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are
    primarily focused towards maintaining an investment portfolio
    with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration
    that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated
    liability cash flow profile. However, our estimate of the
    liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and we may be
    forced to liquidate fixed income investments prior to maturity
    at a loss in order to cover the cash flow profile of the
    liability. Although we take measures to manage the economic
    risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we
    may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed
    income investments relative to our liabilities. See also
    “— Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability.”


 


    Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price
    volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in
    credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads will adversely
    impact both the net unrealized gain or loss position of the
    fixed-income investment portfolio, will increase losses
    associated with credit-based non-qualifying derivatives where we
    assume credit exposure, and, if issuer credit spreads increase
    significantly or for an extended period of time, will likely
    result in higher
    other-than-temporary
    impairments. Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment
    income associated with new purchases of fixed maturity
    securities. In addition, market volatility can make it difficult
    to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less
    frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or
    estimates that may have significant period to period changes
    which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations or financial condition. Credit spreads on both
    corporate and structured securities widened significantly during
    2008, resulting in continuing depressed pricing. As a result of
    improved conditions, credit spreads narrowed in 2009 and changed
    to a lesser extent in 2010. If there is a resumption of
    significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in
    credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency
    which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations, financial condition,
    liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses,
    impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions.


 


    Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for
    lower earnings associated with certain of our insurance
    businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated
    fair value of the assets under management. Downturns and
    volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect
    on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and
    investment products and services. Because these products and
    services generate fees related primarily to the value of assets
    under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce
    our revenues from the reduction in the value of the investments
    we manage. The retail variable annuity business in particular is
    highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in
    the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings in
    variable annuity products. Furthermore, certain of our variable
    annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our
    potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline.
    MetLife, Inc. uses derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the
    impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. We are
    also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the
    discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions
    associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit
    obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or
    equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded
    status of these plans. Lastly, we invest a portion of our
    investments in public and private equity securities, leveraged
    buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds and
    the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by
    downturns or volatility in equity markets.


 


    Our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial
    and agricultural real estate. Our exposure to commercial and
    agricultural real estate risk stems from various factors. These
    factors include, but are not limited to, market conditions
    including the demand and supply of leasable commercial space,
    creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets
    volatility and the inherent interest rate movement. In addition,
    our real estate joint venture development program is subject to
    risks, including, but not limited to, reduced property sales and
    decreased availability of financing which could adversely impact
    the joint venture developments
    and/or
    operations. The state of the economy





    
    37



Table of Contents





    and speed of recovery in fundamental and capital market
    conditions in the commercial and agricultural real estate
    sectors will continue to influence the performance of our
    investments in these sectors. These factors and others beyond
    our control could have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows
    through net investment income, realized investment losses and
    levels of valuation allowances.


 


    Our investment portfolio contains investments in government
    bonds issued by European nations. Recently, the European Union
    member states have experienced above average public debt,
    inflation and unemployment as the global economic downturn has
    developed. A number of member states are significantly impacted
    by the economies of their more influential neighbors, such as
    Germany. In addition, financial troubles of one nation can
    trigger a domino effect on others. In particular, a number of
    large European banks hold significant amounts of sovereign
    financial institution debt of other European nations and could
    experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in
    the value of such debt. Our investment portfolio also contains
    investments in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of
    U.S. states and municipalities and a limited amount of
    general obligation bonds of U.S. states and municipalities
    (collectively, “Municipal Bonds”). Recently, certain
    U.S. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits
    and financial difficulties. There can be no assurance that the
    financial difficulties of such U.S. states and
    municipalities would not have an adverse impact on our Municipal
    Bond portfolio.


 


    Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under
    “— Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange
    Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability.” Changes
    in these factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect
    our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be
    substantial.


 


    A portion of our investments are made in leveraged buy-out
    funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds, many of which
    make private equity investments. The amount and timing of net
    investment income from such investment funds tends to be uneven
    as a result of the performance of the underlying investments,
    including private equity investments. The timing of
    distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events
    relating to the underlying investments, as well as the
    funds’ schedules for making distributions and their needs
    for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount
    of net investment income that we record from these investments
    can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Recovering
    private equity markets and stabilizing credit and real estate
    markets during 2010 had a positive impact on returns and net
    investment income on private equity funds, hedge funds and real
    estate joint ventures, which are included within other limited
    partnership interests and real estate and real estate joint
    venture portfolios. Although volatility in most global financial
    markets has moderated, if there is a resumption of significant
    volatility, it could adversely impact returns and net investment
    income on these alternative investment classes.


 


    Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the
    U.S. real estate market and increased residential mortgage
    loan and other consumer loan delinquencies, investor anxiety
    over the U.S. and European economies, rating agency
    downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers,
    unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and
    monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging of financial
    institutions and hedge funds and the continuing recovery in the
    inter-bank market. If there is a resumption of significant
    volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in interest
    rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or
    weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar
    which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations, financial condition,
    liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses,
    impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in
    unrealized gain or loss positions.


 



    Changes
    in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our
    Profitability


 


    Some of our products, principally traditional whole life
    insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts,
    expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce
    our investment margin or “spread,” or the difference
    between the amounts that we are required to pay under the
    contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are
    able to earn on general account investments intended to support
    obligations under the contracts. Our spread is a key component
    of our net income.


 


    As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be
    forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured
    or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our
    investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the
    fixed income securities, commercial or agricultural mortgage
    loans and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio
    with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates,
    which exacerbates this risk.





    
    38



Table of Contents





    Lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in
    investment margins on some products. However, our ability to
    lower these rates could be limited by competition or
    contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the
    timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. As a result, our
    spread could decrease or potentially become negative. Our
    expectation for future spreads is an important component in the
    amortization of DAC and value of business acquired
    (“VOBA”), and significantly lower spreads may cause us
    to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the
    affected reporting period. In addition, during periods of
    declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products
    may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers,
    resulting in increased premium payments on products with
    flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and
    increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance
    policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period
    when our new investments carry lower returns. A decline in
    market interest rates could also reduce our return on
    investments that do not support particular policy obligations.
    Accordingly, declining interest rates may materially affect our
    results of operations, financial position and cash flows and
    significantly reduce our profitability. We recognize that a low
    interest rate environment will adversely affect our earnings,
    but we do not believe any such impact will be material in 2011.


 


    The sufficiency of our life insurance statutory reserves in
    Taiwan is highly sensitive to interest rates and other related
    assumptions. This is due to the sustained low interest rate
    environment in Taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate
    guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health
    contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of
    long-duration investments in the Taiwanese capital markets to
    match such long-duration liabilities. The key assumptions
    include current Taiwan government bond yield rates increasing
    approximately 1% from current levels over the next ten years,
    lapse rates, mortality and morbidity levels remaining consistent
    with recent experience, and U.S. dollar-denominated
    investments making up to 35% of total assets backing life
    insurance statutory reserves. Current reserve adequacy analysis
    shows that provisions are adequate; however, adverse changes in
    key assumptions for interest rates, lapse experience and
    mortality and morbidity levels could lead to a need to
    strengthen reserves.


 


    Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect
    our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest
    rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the
    investments in MetLife’s general account with higher
    yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates
    necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. We,
    therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower
    profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of
    existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy
    loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as
    policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as
    interest rates rise. This process may result in cash outflows
    requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of
    those investments are adversely affected by the increase in
    market interest rates, which may result in realized investment
    losses. Unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us
    to accelerate the amortization of DAC, VOBA and negative VOBA,
    which reduces net income. An increase in market interest rates
    could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our
    investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated
    fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a
    substantial portion of our investment portfolio. Lastly, an
    increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income
    associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity
    account balances invested in fixed income funds.


 



    Some
    of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid and Are in Asset
    Classes That Have Been Experiencing Significant Market
    Valuation Fluctuations


 


    We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as
    privately-placed fixed maturity securities; mortgage loans;
    policy loans and leveraged leases; equity real estate, including
    real estate joint ventures and funds; and other limited
    partnership interests. These asset classes represented 26.6% of
    the carrying value of our total cash and investments at
    December 31, 2010. In recent years, even some of our very
    high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during
    periods of market volatility or disruption. If we require
    significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal
    cash requirements or are required to post or return cash
    collateral in connection with our investment portfolio,
    derivatives transactions or securities lending program, we may
    have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be
    forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been
    able to realize, or both. The reported value of our relatively
    illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset
    classes described above and, at times, our high quality,
    generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the
    lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to
    sell certain of our investments in the global market, there can
    be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices
    at which we have recorded them and we could be forced to sell
    them at significantly lower prices.




    
    39



Table of Contents






    Our
    Participation in a Securities Lending Program Subjects Us to
    Potential Liquidity and Other Risks


 


    We participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of
    securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and
    short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily
    brokerage firms and commercial banks. We generally obtain
    collateral in an amount equal to 102% of the estimated fair
    value of the loaned securities, which is obtained at the
    inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or
    equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. Returns of loaned
    securities by the third parties would require us to return the
    collateral associated with such loaned securities. In addition,
    in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested
    collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with cash
    collateral received from the third parties) may exceed the term
    of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value
    may fall below the amount of cash received as collateral and
    invested. If we are required to return significant amounts of
    cash collateral on short notice and we are forced to sell
    securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty
    selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a
    timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or
    illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able
    to realize under normal market conditions, or both. In addition,
    under stressful capital market and economic conditions,
    liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our
    ability to sell securities. If we decrease the amount of our
    securities lending activities over time, the amount of net
    investment income generated by these activities will also likely
    decline. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Investments — Securities Lending.”


 



    Our
    Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to
    Declines in Estimated Fair Value of Specified Assets May
    Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Expose Us to Counterparty
    Credit Risk


 


    Some of our transactions with financial and other institutions
    specify the circumstances under which the parties are required
    to pledge collateral related to any decline in the estimated
    fair value of the specified assets. In addition, under the terms
    of some of our transactions, we may be required to make payments
    to our counterparties related to any decline in the estimated
    fair value of the specified assets. The amount of collateral we
    may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to
    make under these agreements may increase under certain
    circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity
    and Capital Sources — Collateral Financing
    Arrangements” and Note 12 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Gross
    Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities May Be
    Realized or Result in Future Impairments, Resulting in a
    Reduction in Our Net Income


 


    Fixed maturity and equity securities classified as
    available-for-sale
    are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized gains or
    losses on
    available-for-sale
    securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive
    income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. Our
    gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities
    available for sale at December 31, 2010 were
    $6.9 billion. The portion of the $6.9 billion of gross
    unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities where
    the estimated fair value has declined and remained below
    amortized cost or cost by 20% or more for six months or greater
    was $2.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The accumulated
    change in estimated fair value of these
    available-for-sale
    securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is
    realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the
    decline in estimated fair value is determined to be
    other-than-temporary
    and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. Realized losses
    or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net
    income in a particular quarterly or annual period.


 



    The
    Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken
    on Our Investments is Highly Subjective and Could Materially
    Impact Our Results of Operations or Financial
    Position


 


    The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments
    varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic
    evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated
    with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and
    assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
    becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly and
    reflect changes in allowances and impairments in net investment
    losses as such evaluations are revised. Additional impairments
    may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future.
    Furthermore, historical trends may not be indicative of future
    impairments or allowances.




    
    40



Table of Contents





    For example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity
    securities is adjusted for impairments deemed to be
    other-than-temporary.
    The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on
    our
    case-by-case
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The review of our fixed maturity and
    equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the
    total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities:
    (i) securities where the estimated fair value has declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%;
    (ii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for
    less than six months; and (iii) securities where the
    estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.


 


    Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the
    security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent
    in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates
    about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings
    potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process
    include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and
    the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost
    or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of
    securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial
    difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an
    entire industry sector or
    sub-sector;
    (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically
    depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for
    impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or
    industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has
    exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed
    maturity securities, whether we have the intent to sell or will
    more likely than not be required to sell a particular security
    before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below
    amortized cost; (vii) with respect to equity securities,
    whether we have the ability and intent to hold a particular
    security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the
    recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount at least equal
    to its cost; (viii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash
    flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities
    (“ABS”); and (ix) other subjective factors,
    including concentrations and information obtained from
    regulators and rating agencies.


 



    Defaults
    on Our Mortgage Loans and Volatility in Performance May
    Adversely Affect Our Profitability


 


    Our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally
    collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential
    properties. We establish valuation allowances for estimated
    impairments at the balance sheet date. Such valuation allowances
    are based on the excess carrying value of the loan over the
    present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the
    loan’s original effective interest rate, the estimated fair
    value of the loan’s collateral if the loan is in the
    process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or the
    loan’s observable market price. We also establish valuation
    allowances for loan losses for pools of loans with similar risk
    characteristics, such as property types, or loans having similar
    loan-to-value
    ratios and debt service coverage ratios, when based on past
    experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred and
    the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These
    valuation allowances are based on loan risk characteristics,
    historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market
    fundamentals and outlook as well as other relevant factors. At
    December 31, 2010, mortgage loans that were either
    delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled less than
    0.6% of our mortgage loan investments. The performance of our
    mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future.
    In addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans
    held-for-investment
    have balloon payment maturities. An increase in the default rate
    of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition through realized investment losses or increases in our
    valuation allowances.


 


    Further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage
    loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and
    consequently on our results of operations or financial
    condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a
    broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have
    a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector
    may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios
    to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Moreover,
    our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of
    related assets may be limited if other market participants are
    seeking to sell at the same time. In addition, legislative
    proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms
    of mortgage loans could be enacted. We cannot predict whether
    these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such
    proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business
    or investments. See “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Investments — Mortgage
    Loans.”




    
    41



Table of Contents






    The
    Impairment of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely
    Affect Us


 


    We have exposure to many different industries and
    counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with
    counterparties in the financial services industry, including
    brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge
    funds and other investment funds and other institutions. Many of
    these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of
    default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to
    secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when
    the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at
    prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or
    derivative exposure due to us. We also have exposure to these
    financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt
    instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities,
    derivative transactions, joint venture, hedge fund and equity
    investments. Further, potential action by governments and
    regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting
    the global banking system and financial markets, such as
    investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and
    other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or
    any new authority that may be created, could negatively impact
    these instruments, securities, transactions and investments.
    There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to
    the carrying value of these investments would not materially and
    adversely affect our business and results of operations.


 



    We
    Face Unforeseen Liabilities, Asset Impairments or Rating Actions
    Arising from Acquisitions, Including ALICO, and Dispositions of
    Businesses or Difficulties Integrating and Managing Growth of
    Such Businesses


 


    We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses
    in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future.
    Acquisition and disposition activity exposes us to a number of
    risks.


 


    There could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments,
    including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with
    the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may
    acquire in the future.


 


    In addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that
    we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing
    due diligence investigations on each business that we have
    acquired or may acquire. Furthermore, even for obligations and
    liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence
    process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual
    protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us
    from losses. For example, in connection with the acquisition of
    ALICO, we may be exposed to obligations and liabilities of ALICO
    that are not adequately covered, in amount, scope or duration,
    by the indemnification provisions in the Stock Purchase
    Agreement or reflected or reserved for in ALICO’s
    historical financial statements. Although we have rights to
    indemnification from ALICO Holdings under the Stock Purchase
    Agreement for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival
    periods for bringing claims and monetary limitations on the
    amount we may recover, and we cannot be certain that
    indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or
    sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss
    we may suffer.


 


    Furthermore, the use of our own funds as consideration in any
    acquisition would consume capital resources that would no longer
    be available for other corporate purposes. We also may not be
    able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if,
    for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close
    related bridge credit facilities. Moreover, as a result of
    uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and
    dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain
    actions with respect to the ratings assigned to MetLife, Inc.
    and/or its
    subsidiaries.


 


    Our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any
    acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our
    ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an
    efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to integrate
    such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may
    take longer than expected. The integration of operations and
    differences in operational culture may require the dedication of
    significant management resources, which may distract
    management’s attention from
    day-to-day
    business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the
    operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to
    realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such
    acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be
    less than expected.




    
    42



Table of Contents





    The success with which we are able to integrate acquired
    operations, will depend on our ability to manage a variety of
    issues, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition
    rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired
    business and our ability to integrate it successfully.




 



     
        • 

    
    Customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer
    decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a
    result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the
    consummation of the acquisition, including, for example,
    potential unfamiliarity with the MetLife brand in regions where
    MetLife did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition.




 



     
        • 

    
    If the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to
    distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to
    generate the same volume of business for MetLife after the
    acquisition. Independent distributors may reexamine the scope of
    their relationship with the acquired business or MetLife as a
    result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate
    distribution of our products.




 



     
        • 

    
    Integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may
    require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations,
    address possible differences in corporate culture and management
    philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance
    procedures, combine separate information technology platforms
    and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to
    the former parent of the acquired business or other service
    providers.




 



     
        • 

    
    In cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain
    markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the
    continued success and prospects of the joint venture. Our
    ability to exercise management control or influence over these
    joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend
    on the continued cooperation between the joint venture
    participants and on the terms of the joint venture agreements,
    which allocate control among the joint venture participants. We
    may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of
    these joint venture partners fail to meet their obligations
    under the joint venture, encounter financial difficulty or elect
    to alter, modify or terminate the relationship.




 



     
        • 

    
    We may incur significant costs in connection with any
    acquisition and the related integration. The costs and
    liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition
    and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated.





 


    All of these challenges are present in our integration of ALICO,
    which we expect to extend over a substantial period.


 


    The prospects of our business also may be materially and
    adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of
    any acquired business successfully. For example, the life
    insurance markets in many of the international markets in which
    ALICO operates have experienced significant growth in recent
    years. Management of ALICO’s growth to date has required
    significant management and operational resources and is likely
    to continue to do so. Future growth of our combined business
    will require, among other things, the continued development of
    adequate underwriting and claim handling capabilities and
    skills, sufficient capital base, increased marketing and sales
    activities, and the hiring and training of new personnel.


 


    There can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing
    future growth of any acquired business, including ALICO. In
    particular, there may be difficulties in hiring and training
    sufficient numbers of customer service personnel and agents to
    keep pace with any future growth in the number of customers in
    our developing or developed markets. In addition, we may
    experience difficulties in upgrading, developing and expanding
    information technology systems quickly enough to accommodate any
    future growth. If we are unable to manage future growth, our
    prospects may be materially and adversely affected.


 



    There
    Can Be No Assurance That the Closing Agreement American Life
    Entered Into With the IRS Will Achieve Its Intended Effect, or
    That American Life Will Be Able to Comply with the Related
    Agreed Upon Plan


 


    On March 4, 2010, American Life entered into a closing
    agreement with the Commissioner of the IRS with respect to a
    U.S. withholding tax issue arising from payments by foreign
    branches of a life insurance company





    
    43



Table of Contents





    incorporated under U.S. law. IRS Revenue Ruling
    2004-75,
    effective January 1, 2005, requires foreign branches of
    U.S. life insurance companies in certain circumstances to
    withhold U.S. income taxes on payments of taxable income
    made with respect to certain insurance and annuity products paid
    to customers resident in a foreign country. The closing
    agreement provides transitional relief under
    Section 7805(b) of the Code to American Life, such that
    American Life’s foreign branches will not be required to
    withhold U.S. income tax on the income portion of payments
    made pursuant to American Life’s life insurance and annuity
    contracts (“Covered Payments”) under IRS Revenue
    Ruling
    2004-75 for
    any tax periods beginning on January 1, 2005 and ending on
    December 31, 2013 (the “Deferral Period”). In
    accordance with the closing agreement, American Life submitted a
    plan to the IRS indicating the steps American Life will take (on
    a country by country basis) to ensure that no substantial amount
    of U.S. withholding tax will arise from Covered Payments
    made by American Life’s foreign branches to foreign
    customers after the Deferral Period. In addition, the closing
    agreement requires that such plan be updated in quarterly
    filings with the IRS. The closing agreement is final and binding
    upon American Life and the IRS; provided, however,
    that the agreement can be reopened in the event of malfeasance,
    fraud or a misrepresentation of a material fact, and is subject
    to change of law risk that occurs after the effective date of
    the closing agreement (with certain exceptions). In addition,
    the closing agreement provides that no legislative amendment to
    Section 861(a)(1)(A) of the Code shall shorten the Deferral
    Period, regardless of when such amendment is enacted. The plan
    American Life delivered to the IRS involves the transfer of
    businesses from certain of the foreign branches of American Life
    to one or more existing or newly-formed foreign affiliates of
    American Life; however, the plan is subject to change pursuant
    to the quarterly updates that American Life will provide to the
    IRS. An estimate of the costs to comply with the plan has been
    recorded in the financial statements. Also the achievement of
    the plan presented to the IRS within the required time frame of
    December 31, 2013 is contingent upon regulatory approvals
    and other requirements. Failure to achieve the plan in a timely
    manner could cause American Life to be required to withhold
    U.S. income taxes on the taxable portion of payments made
    by American Life’s foreign branches after December 31,
    2013 to customers resident in a foreign country, which could put
    American Life at a competitive disadvantage with its competitors
    that sell similar products through foreign entities and could
    have a material adverse effect on American Life’s future
    revenues or expenses or both.


 



    There
    Can Be No Assurance That Any Incremental Tax Benefit Will Result
    From the Currently Planned Elections Under Section 338 of
    the Code


 


    MetLife, Inc. currently plans to make Section 338 Elections
    with respect to ALICO and certain of its subsidiaries, and
    MetLife, Inc. believes that ALICO and such subsidiaries should
    have additional amortizable basis in their assets for
    U.S. tax purposes as a result of such elections. No
    assurance can be given, however, as to the incremental tax
    benefit, if any, that will result from any such elections,
    if made.


 



    The
    Issuance of Certain Equity Securities to ALICO Holdings in
    Connection with the Acquisition Will Have a Dilutive Impact on
    MetLife, Inc.’s Stockholders


 


    As part of the consideration paid to ALICO Holdings pursuant to
    the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, MetLife, Inc. issued
    to ALICO Holdings (A) 78,239,712 shares of its common
    stock, (B) 6,857,000 shares of the Series B
    Contingent Convertible Junior Participating Non-Cumulative
    Perpetual Preferred Stock (the “Convertible Preferred
    Stock”), which will be convertible into approximately
    68,570,000 shares of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock
    (subject to anti-dilution adjustments) upon a favorable vote of
    MetLife, Inc.’s common stockholders, and
    (C) $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of MetLife,
    Inc.’s common equity units, which initially consist of
    (x) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a
    variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock
    on each of three specified future settlement dates
    (approximately two, three and four years after the closing of
    the Acquisition, subject to deferral under certain
    circumstances) for a fixed amount per purchase contract (an
    aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) (the
    “Stock Purchase Contracts”) and (y) an interest
    in each of three series of debt securities of MetLife, Inc. The
    aggregate amount of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock expected
    to be issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the
    Acquisition (including shares of common stock issuable upon
    conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock and shares of
    common stock issuable upon settlement of the Stock Purchase
    Contracts) is expected to be approximately 214,600,000 to
    231,500,000 shares.




    
    44



Table of Contents





    As a result of the issuance of these securities, more shares of
    common stock will be outstanding and each existing stockholder
    will own a smaller percentage of our common stock then
    outstanding.


 



    Subject
    to Certain Limitations, ALICO Holdings Will Be Able to Sell
    MetLife, Inc.’s Equity Securities at Any Time From and
    After the Date 270 Days After the Closing of the Acquisition,
    Which Could Cause MetLife, Inc.’s Stock Price to
    Decrease


 


    ALICO Holdings agreed in the Investor Rights Agreement entered
    into in connection with the Acquisition, not to transfer any of
    MetLife, Inc.’s securities received pursuant to the terms
    of the Stock Purchase Agreement, at any time up to the date
    270 days after the closing of the Acquisition, without the
    consent of MetLife, Inc. However, from and after such date,
    ALICO Holdings will be able to transfer up to half of such
    equity securities, and from and after the first anniversary of
    the closing of the Acquisition, ALICO Holdings will be able to
    transfer all of such securities, subject in each case to certain
    limited volume and timing restrictions set forth in the Investor
    Rights Agreement. Moreover, ALICO Holdings will agree to use
    commercially reasonable efforts to transfer, and it will cause
    its affiliates to so transfer, all of MetLife, Inc.’s
    securities received in connection with the Acquisition prior to
    the later of (i) the fifth anniversary of the closing of
    the Acquisition, and (ii) the first anniversary of the
    third stock purchase date under the Stock Purchase Contracts.
    Subject to certain conditions, we have agreed to register the
    resale of MetLife, Inc.’s equity and other securities to be
    issued to ALICO Holdings under the Securities Act. The sale or
    transfer of a substantial number of these securities within a
    short period of time could cause MetLife, Inc.’s stock
    price to decrease, make it more difficult for us to raise funds
    through future offerings of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock or
    acquire other businesses using MetLife, Inc.’s common stock
    as consideration.


 



    If
    MetLife, Inc.’s Stockholders Do Not Vote to Approve the
    Conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock Into Common Stock,
    MetLife, Inc. Will Be Required to Pay Approximately $300 Million
    to ALICO Holdings


 


    ALICO Holdings received shares of the Convertible Preferred
    Stock upon completion of the Acquisition. Each share of
    Convertible Preferred Stock will convert into 10 shares of
    MetLife, Inc.’s common stock (subject to anti-dilution
    adjustments) if conversion is approved by MetLife, Inc.’s
    common stockholders. If we fail to obtain such approval prior to
    the first anniversary of the closing of the Acquisition,
    November 1, 2011, MetLife, Inc. will be required to pay
    approximately $300 million to ALICO Holdings, assuming no
    purchase price adjustments, and, upon request, register the
    Convertible Preferred Stock for sale by ALICO Holdings in a
    public offering and list the Convertible Preferred Stock on the
    NYSE.


 



    Fluctuations
    in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our
    Profitability


 


    We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting
    from our holdings of
    non-U.S. dollar
    denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and
    net income from foreign operations and issuance of
    non-U.S. dollar
    denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts
    and funding agreements. These risks relate to potential
    decreases in estimated fair value and income resulting from a
    strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the
    U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign
    currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the
    estimated fair value of our
    non-U.S. dollar
    denominated investments, our investments in foreign
    subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations.
    Although we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to
    mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide
    assurance that these methods will be effective or that our
    counterparties will perform their obligations. See
    “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk.”


 


    From time to time, various emerging market countries have
    experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including
    significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to
    foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in
    certain emerging markets.


 


    Historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign
    currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with
    investments denominated in their respective foreign currency,
    which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on
    local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates
    affect the translation of these results into our
    U.S. dollar basis consolidated financial statements.
    Although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign





    
    45



Table of Contents





    currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely
    affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the
    failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See
    “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk.”


 


    The Acquisition has increased our exposure to risks associated
    with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the
    U.S. dollar and increased our exposure to emerging markets.
    Fluctuations in the yen/ U.S. dollar exchange rate can have
    a significant effect on our reported financial position and
    results of operations because ALICO has substantial operations
    in Japan and a significant portion of its premiums and
    investment income are received in yen. Claims and expenses are
    also paid in yen and ALICO primarily purchases yen-denominated
    assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and
    other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however,
    translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting
    purposes. Accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/U.S. dollar
    exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported
    financial position and results of operations.


 


    Due to our significant international operations, during periods
    when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues (such
    as the Japanese yen) weakens, translating amounts expressed in
    that currency into U.S. dollars causes fewer
    U.S. dollars to be reported. When the relevant foreign
    currency strengthens, translating such currency into
    U.S. dollars causes more U.S. dollars to be reported.
    Between September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010, the
    Japanese yen has strengthened against the U.S. dollar,
    which fluctuated from a low point of ¥80.40 to the
    U.S. dollar on October 29, 2010 to a high point of
    ¥84.26 to the U.S. dollar on November 29, 2010,
    which has been somewhat offset by the weakening of the euro,
    which fluctuated from a high point of 0.7702 euro to the
    U.S. dollar on November 30, 2010, to 0.7039 euro to
    the U.S. dollar on November 4, 2010. Any unrealized
    foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The weakening of
    a foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar will
    generally adversely affect the value of investments in
    U.S. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves
    denominated in that currency.


 



    Our
    International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and
    Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic
    Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability


 


    Our international operations face political, legal, operational
    and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations.
    We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization
    or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls
    or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds
    from these operations out of the countries in which they operate
    or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or
    other currencies. Some of our foreign insurance operations are,
    and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where
    these risks are heightened. See “Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” In addition, we
    rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter
    labor problems resulting from workers’ associations and
    trade unions in some countries. In several countries, including
    Japan, China and India, we operate with local business partners
    with the resulting risk of managing partner relationships to the
    business objectives. If our business model is not successful in
    a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment
    in building and training the sales force in that country. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Executive
    Summary” and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.


 


    We are expanding our international operations in certain markets
    where we operate and in selected new markets. This may require
    considerable management time, as well as
    start-up
    expenses for market development before any significant revenues
    and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets
    may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in
    existing markets may be affected by local economic and market
    conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not
    achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations
    may be negatively impacted.


 


    In addition, in recent years, the operating environment in
    Argentina has been very challenging. In Argentina, we were
    formerly principally engaged in the pension business. In
    December 2008, the Argentine government nationalized private
    pensions and seized the pension funds’ investments,
    eliminating the private pensions business in Argentina. As a
    result, we have experienced and will continue to experience
    reductions in the operation’s revenues and cash flows. The
    Argentine government now controls all assets which previously
    were managed by our





    
    46



Table of Contents





    Argentine pension operations. Further governmental or legal
    actions related to our operations in Argentina could negatively
    impact our operations in Argentina and result in future losses.


 


    We have market presence in over 60 different countries and
    increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic
    conditions. Europe has recently experienced a deep recession and
    countries such as Italy, Spain, Portugal and, in particular,
    Greece and Ireland, have been particularly affected by the
    recession, resulting in increased national debts and depressed
    economic activity. We have significant operations and
    investments in these countries which could be adversely affected
    by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing
    inflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment
    and currency instability.


 


    In addition to fluctuations in the yen/U.S. dollar exchange
    rate discussed above, we face increased exposure to the Japanese
    markets as a result of ALICO’s considerable presence there.
    Deterioration in Japan’s economic recovery could have an
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    We also have operations in the Middle East where the legal and
    political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to
    instability and disruptions. Lack of legal certainty and
    stability in the region exposes our operations to increased risk
    of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by
    regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our
    contracts, which may negatively impact our business in this
    region. See also “— Changes in Market Interest
    Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability” regarding
    the impact of low interest rates on our Taiwanese operations.


 



    As a
    Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its
    Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and
    Pay Dividends


 


    MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and
    financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant
    operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and
    permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with
    its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its
    obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. If
    the cash MetLife, Inc. receives from its subsidiaries is
    insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding
    company obligations, MetLife, Inc. may be required to raise cash
    through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional
    equity or the sale of assets.


 


    The payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife,
    Inc. by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance
    laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of
    prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In
    addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of
    dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to
    MetLife, Inc. if they determine that the payment could be
    adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The payment of
    dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also
    influenced by business conditions and rating agency
    considerations. See “Business —
    U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation” and
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — The Holding Company —
    Liquidity and Capital Sources — Dividends from
    Subsidiaries.” The ability of MetLife Bank to pay dividends
    is also subject to regulation by the OCC.


 


    Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or
    advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to MetLife,
    Inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on
    dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law,
    monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange
    regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign
    subsidiaries operate. See “Business —
    International Regulation” and “— Our
    International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and
    Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic
    Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability.”


 



    A
    Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or
    Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations


 


    Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized
    Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSRO”) publish as
    indicators of an insurance company’s ability to meet
    contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to
    maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to
    market our products and our competitive position.




    
    47



Table of Contents





    Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations in many ways, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other
    investment products;




 



     
        • 

    
    adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and
    independent sales intermediaries;




 



     
        • 

    
    materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders
    and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and
    services to remain competitive; and




 



     
        • 

    
    adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at
    reasonable prices or at all.





 


    In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance
    subsidiaries, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings for
    MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries. Credit ratings
    are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms
    of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors
    in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain
    types of liquidity. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations in many ways, including adversely limiting our
    access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of
    debt, and requiring us to post collateral. For example, with
    respect to derivative transactions with credit ratings downgrade
    triggers, a one-notch downgrade would have increased our
    derivative collateral requirements by $99 million at
    December 31, 2010. Also, $375 million of liabilities
    associated with funding agreements and other capital market
    products were subject to credit ratings downgrade triggers that
    permit early termination subject to a notice period of
    90 days.


 


    In view of the difficulties experienced during 2008 and 2009 by
    many financial institutions, including our competitors in the
    insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs
    will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply
    to such institutions, will continue to increase the frequency
    and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request
    additional information from the companies that they rate, and
    may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in
    the NRSRO models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.
    Rating agencies use an “outlook statement” of
    “positive,” “stable,” “negative”
    or “developing” to indicate a medium- or long-term
    trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a
    ratings change. A rating may have a “stable” outlook
    to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however,
    a “stable” rating does not preclude a rating agency
    from changing a rating at any time, without notice. Certain
    rating agencies assign rating modifiers such as
    “CreditWatch” or “Under Review” to indicate
    their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating.
    These ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection
    with certain events such as potential mergers and acquisitions,
    or material changes in a company’s results, in order for
    the rating agencies to perform their analyses to fully determine
    the rating implications of the event. Certain rating agencies
    have recently implemented rating actions, including downgrades,
    outlook changes and modifiers, for MetLife, Inc.’s and
    certain of its subsidiaries’ insurer financial strength and
    credit ratings.


 


    Based on the announcement in February 2010 that MetLife was in
    discussions to acquire ALICO, in February 2010, S&P and
    A.M. Best placed the ratings of MetLife, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries on “CreditWatch with negative
    implications” and “under review with negative
    implications,” respectively. Also in connection with the
    announcement, in March 2010, Moody’s changed the ratings
    outlook of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries from
    “stable” to “negative” outlook. Upon
    completion of the public financing transactions related to the
    Acquisition, in August 2010, S&P affirmed the ratings of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries with a “negative”
    outlook, and removed them from “CreditWatch.” On
    November 1, 2010, upon closing of the Acquisition, S&P
    changed the rating outlook of ALICO to “positive” from
    “negative” and affirmed its financial strength rating;
    the ratings of MetLife, Inc. and its other subsidiaries were
    unaffected by this ratings action. Also on November 1,
    2010, Fitch Ratings upgraded by one notch (and changed the
    rating outlook from “Rating Watch Positive” to
    “stable”) the financial strength rating of American
    Life and affirmed all existing ratings for MetLife, Inc. and its
    other subsidiaries. On November 4, 2010, A.M. Best
    upgraded by one notch the financial strength rating of American
    Life and changed the rating outlook from “under review with
    positive implications” to “negative.”
    A.M. Best also changed the outlook for MetLife, Inc. and
    certain of its other subsidiaries to “negative” from
    “under review with negative implications.” Effective
    as of January in 2011, MetLife withdrew the American Life
    financial strength ratings by A.M. Best and Fitch Ratings
    as once it became a subsidiary of MetLife it was not deemed
    necessary to maintain stand-alone ratings.




    
    48



Table of Contents





    On July 1, 2010, Moody’s published revised guidance
    called “Revisions to Moody’s Hybrid Tool Kit”
    (the “Guidance”) for assigning equity credit to
    so-called hybrid securities, i.e., securities with both debt and
    equity characteristics (“Hybrids”). Moody’s
    evaluates Hybrids using certain specified criteria and then
    places each such security into a “basket,” with a
    specific percentage of debt and equity being associated with
    each basket, which is then used to adjust full sets of financial
    statements for purposes of, among other things, calculating the
    issuing company’s financial leverage. Under the Guidance,
    Hybrids are one element that Moody’s considers within the
    context of an issuer’s overall credit profile. As of
    December 31, 2010, we have approximately $11.1 billion
    of Hybrids outstanding, which includes approximately
    $6.2 billion of debt securities and $4.9 billion of
    equity securities. Application of the Guidance has resulted in
    Moody’s significantly reducing the amount of equity credit
    it assigns to these securities, including the common equity
    units issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the
    Acquisition. We do not expect at this time, as a result of the
    Guidance, that a reduction in Moody’s equity treatment of
    our Hybrids, including the common equity units, would result in
    any material negative impact on MetLife, Inc.’s credit
    rating or the financial strength ratings of its insurance
    company subsidiaries. However, if we decided to increase our
    adjusted capital as a result of the application of the Guidance,
    we may seek to (i) issue additional common equity or higher
    equity content Hybrids satisfying the Guidance’s revised
    rating criteria,
    and/or
    (ii) redeem, repurchase or restructure existing Hybrids.
    Any sale of additional common equity would have a dilutive
    effect on our common stockholders.


 


    We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what
    actions we may take in response to the actions of rating
    agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with
    other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings
    could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any
    NRSRO.


 



    An
    Inability to Access Our Credit Facilities Could Result in a
    Reduction in Our Liquidity and Lead to Downgrades in Our Credit
    and Financial Strength Ratings


 


    In October 2010, we entered into two senior unsecured credit
    facilities: a three-year $3 billion facility and a
    364-day
    $1 billion facility. We also have other facilities which we
    enter into in the ordinary course of business. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity
    and Capital Sources — Credit and Committed
    Facilities” and Notes 11 and 24 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    We rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of
    liquidity. The availability of these facilities could be
    critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our
    ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market
    when alternative sources of credit are tight. The credit
    facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and
    financial covenants. We must comply with covenants under our
    credit facilities, including a requirement to maintain a
    specified minimum consolidated net worth.


 


    Our right to make borrowings under these facilities is subject
    to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including
    our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow
    under these facilities is also subject to the continued
    willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the
    facilities to provide funds. Our failure to comply with the
    covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to
    borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending
    commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other
    reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the
    facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit
    facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Defaults,
    Downgrades or Other Events Impairing the Carrying Value of Our
    Fixed Maturity or Equity Securities Portfolio May Reduce Our
    Earnings


 


    We are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of
    fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and
    interest payments they owe us. We are also subject to the risk
    that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities,
    including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal
    and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows.
    Fixed maturity securities represent a significant portion of our
    investment portfolio. The occurrence of a major economic
    downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads,
    or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or
    underlying collateral of these securities could cause the
    estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio
    and our earnings to decline and the default rate of the





    
    49



Table of Contents





    fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to
    increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of
    particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the
    credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of
    securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a
    similar effect. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of
    issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a
    ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate
    the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could
    increase the capital we must hold to support that security to
    maintain our RBC levels. Any event reducing the estimated fair
    value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition. Levels of writedowns or
    impairments are impacted by our assessment of intent to sell, or
    whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to
    sell, fixed maturity securities and the intent and ability to
    hold equity securities which have declined in value until
    recovery. If we determine to reposition or realign portions of
    the portfolio so as not to hold certain equity securities, or
    intend to sell or determine that it is more likely than not that
    we will be required to sell, certain fixed maturity securities
    in an unrealized loss position prior to recovery, then we will
    incur an
    other-than-temporary
    impairment charge in the period that the decision was made not
    to hold the equity security to recovery, or to sell, or the
    determination was made it is more likely than not that we will
    be required to sell the fixed maturity security.


 



    Our
    Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to
    Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Business


 


    Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and
    procedures to record properly and verify a large number of
    transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources
    to develop our risk management policies and procedures and
    expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our
    policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. Many of our
    methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use
    of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on
    historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully
    predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater
    than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management
    methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding
    markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that
    is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This
    information may not always be accurate, complete,
    up-to-date
    or properly evaluated. See “Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk.”


 



    Reinsurance
    May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us
    Against Losses


 


    As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase
    reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
    business segments. See “Business — Reinsurance
    Activity.” While reinsurance agreements generally bind the
    reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally
    fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine
    the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new
    business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for
    business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any
    increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we
    may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or
    may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable
    terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future
    business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect
    to those policies we issue.


 



    If the
    Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification
    Arrangements or to the Derivative Instruments We Use to Hedge
    Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed
    to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations


 


    We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments
    to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general,
    reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our
    policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.
    Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers
    and indemnitors. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers
    will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that
    indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or
    that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A
    reinsurer’s or indemnitor’s insolvency, inability or
    unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance
    agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.




    
    50



Table of Contents





    In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various
    business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative
    instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit
    default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations —
    Investments.” If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor
    their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges
    of the related risk will be ineffective. This is a more
    pronounced risk to us in view of the stresses suffered by
    financial institutions over the past few years. Such failure
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    Differences
    Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving
    Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial
    Results


 


    Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our
    actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we
    use in setting prices for our products and establishing
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Our
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are
    established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will
    need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance
    and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on
    many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to
    be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of
    the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of
    benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the
    investments we make with the premiums we receive. We establish
    liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based
    on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities
    incurred. To the extent that actual claims experience is less
    favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in
    establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase
    our liabilities.


 


    Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for
    future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely
    the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our
    liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts,
    particularly when those payments may not occur until well into
    the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on
    accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the
    assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our
    actual experience. We charge or credit changes in our
    liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are
    established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally
    established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we
    must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings
    negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Catastrophes
    May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and
    Reinsurance Availability


 


    Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of
    catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that
    causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics
    have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the
    likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be
    predicted. A significant pandemic could have a major impact on
    the global economy or the economies of particular countries or
    regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system,
    food supply, consumption, overall economic output and,
    eventually, on the financial markets. In addition, a pandemic
    that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors
    or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt
    our business operations. The effectiveness of external parties,
    including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in
    combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have
    a material impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group
    insurance operations, a localized event that affects the
    workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could
    cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims.
    These events could cause a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations in any period and, depending on their
    severity, could also materially and adversely affect our
    financial condition.


 


    Our Auto & Home business has experienced, and will
    likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may
    have a material adverse impact on the business, results of
    operations and financial condition of the Auto & Home
    segment. Although Auto & Home makes every effort to
    manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility
    management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not
    eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various
    events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail,
    tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow,
    freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made
    events such as terrorist attacks. Historically, substantially
    all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners
    coverages.





    
    51



Table of Contents





    However, catastrophes may also affect other Auto &
    Home coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the
    incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. In addition,
    changing climate conditions, primarily rising global
    temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase,
    the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as
    hurricanes.


 


    Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our
    homeowners coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include
    coastal sections of the northeastern U.S. (including lower New
    York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts), the Gulf
    Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas) and
    Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along
    the New Madrid fault line in the central U.S. and in the Pacific
    Northwest.


 


    The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both
    the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the
    event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are
    restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes,
    earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce significant
    damage or loss of life in larger areas, especially those that
    are heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made
    catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our
    financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could
    materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial
    condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial
    condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability
    of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new
    business could also be affected. It is possible that increases
    in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other
    factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could
    increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the
    future.


 


    Most of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries
    are admitted to transact business require life and property and
    casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to
    participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay
    contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued
    by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations
    levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member
    insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate
    share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of
    business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is
    engaged. In addition, certain states have government owned or
    controlled organizations providing life and property and
    casualty insurance to their citizens. The activities of such
    organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy
    of guaranty fund assessments. Many of these organizations also
    have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the
    guaranty associations described above. Some states permit member
    insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial
    premium tax offsets. See “Business —
    U.S. Regulation — Insurance
    Regulation — Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements” and “Business — International
    Regulation.”


 


    While in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied
    against MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries have not
    been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event
    could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called
    upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material
    impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a
    particular period. We have established liabilities for guaranty
    fund assessments that we consider adequate for assessments with
    respect to insurers that are currently subject to insolvency
    proceedings, but additional liabilities may be necessary. See
    Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.


 


    Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we
    establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only
    after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We
    cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will
    be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to
    time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of
    limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as
    legislation restricting an insurer’s ability to withdraw
    from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our
    exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed
    by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or
    multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our
    property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in
    part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may
    not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future.
    See “— Reinsurance May Not Be Available,
    Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses.”




    
    52



Table of Contents






    Our
    Statutory Reserve Financings May Be Subject to Cost Increases
    and New Financings May Be Subject to Limited Market
    Capacity


 


    To support statutory reserves for several products, including,
    but not limited to, our level premium term life and universal
    life with secondary guarantees and MLIC’s closed block, we
    currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a
    portion of our statutory reserve requirements. While we have
    financing facilities in place for our previously written
    business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to
    support writings through the end of 2010 or later, certain of
    these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the
    occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of MetLife or are
    subject to periodic repricing. Any resulting cost increases
    could negatively impact our financial results.


 


    Future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures
    in the marketplace is not guaranteed. If capacity becomes
    unavailable for a prolonged period of time, hindering our
    ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability
    to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be
    impacted.


 



    Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability


 


    Our segments are subject to intense competition. We believe that
    this competition is based on a number of factors, including
    service, product features, scale, price, financial strength,
    claims-paying ratings, credit ratings,
    e-business
    capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
    number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial
    services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset
    managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group
    customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and
    investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader
    array of products, have more competitive pricing or more
    attractive features in their products or, with respect to other
    insurers, have higher claims paying ability ratings. Some may
    also have greater financial resources with which to compete.
    National banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers
    in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for
    financial services products. Many of our group insurance
    products are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a
    risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable
    terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us.
    The effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the
    persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability
    to sell products in the future.


 


    In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage
    businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually
    attract new entrants. See “Business —
    Competition.”


 


    Finally, the new requirements imposed on the financial industry
    by Dodd-Frank could similarly have differential effects. See
    “— Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our
    Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and
    Limit Our Growth.”


 



    Industry
    Trends Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our
    Businesses


 


    Our segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends
    that affect the insurance industry, including competition with
    respect to product features, price, distribution capability,
    customer service and information technology. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Industry
    Trends.” The impact on our business and on the life
    insurance industry generally of the volatility and instability
    of the financial markets is difficult to predict, and our
    business plans, financial condition and results of operations
    may be negatively impacted or affected in other unexpected ways.
    In addition, the life insurance industry is subject to state
    regulation, and, as complex products are introduced, regulators
    may refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving
    standards. Dodd-Frank, Basel III and the market environment
    in general may also lead to changes in regulation that may
    benefit or disadvantage us relative to some of our competitors.
    See “Business — Competition,”
    “— Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May
    Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth” and
    “— Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability.”




    
    53



Table of Contents






    Consolidation
    of Distributors of Insurance Products May Adversely Affect the
    Insurance Industry and the Profitability of Our
    Business


 


    The insurance industry distributes many of its individual
    products through other financial institutions such as banks and
    broker-dealers. An increase in bank and broker-dealer
    consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry’s
    sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for
    access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses
    and impair our ability to market insurance products to our
    current customer base or to expand our customer base.
    Consolidation of distributors
    and/or other
    industry changes may also increase the likelihood that
    distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing
    selling agreements to terms less favorable to us.


 



    Our
    Valuation of Fixed Maturity, Equity and Trading and Other
    Securities and Short-Term Investments May Include Methodologies,
    Estimations and Assumptions Which Are Subject to Differing
    Interpretations and Could Result in Changes to Investment
    Valuations That May Materially Adversely Affect Our Results of
    Operations or Financial Condition


 


    Fixed maturity, equity, and trading and other securities and
    short-term investments which are reported at estimated fair
    value on the consolidated balance sheets represent the majority
    of our total cash and investments. We have categorized these
    securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority
    of the inputs to the respective valuation technique.


 


    The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted
    prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
    (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable
    inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability’s
    classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the
    lowest level of significant input to its valuation. The input
    levels are as follows:


 




    
    
    



     
        Level 1 — 

    
    Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. We define active markets based on average
    trading volume for equity securities. The size of the bid/ask
    spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed
    maturity securities.




 



     
        Level 2 — 

    
    Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other significant inputs that are
    observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data for substantially the full term of the
    assets or liabilities.




 



     
        Level 3 — 

    
    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the estimated fair value of the
    assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity’s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of the estimated
    fair value requires significant management judgment or
    estimation.





 


    At December 31, 2010, 7.0%, 85.8% and 7.2% of these
    securities represented Level 1, Level 2 and
    Level 3, respectively. The Level 1 securities
    primarily consist of certain U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed fixed maturity securities; certain foreign
    government fixed maturity securities; exchange-traded common
    stock; certain trading securities; certain fair value option
    securities and certain short-term investments. The Level 2
    assets include fixed maturity and equity securities priced
    principally through independent pricing services using
    observable inputs. These fixed maturity securities include most
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities,
    as well as the majority of U.S. and foreign corporate
    securities, RMBS, CMBS, state and political subdivision
    securities, foreign government securities, and ABS. Equity
    securities classified as Level 2 primarily consist of
    non-redeemable preferred securities and certain equity
    securities where market quotes are available but are not
    considered actively traded and are priced by independent pricing
    services. We review the valuation methodologies used by the
    independent pricing services on an ongoing basis and ensure that
    any changes to valuation methodologies are justified.
    Level 3 assets include fixed maturity securities priced
    principally through independent non-binding broker quotations or
    market standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are
    not





    
    54



Table of Contents





    market observable or cannot be derived principally from or
    corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 consists of
    less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading
    activity or where less price transparency exists around the
    inputs to the valuation methodologies including: U.S. and
    foreign corporate securities — including below
    investment grade private placements; RMBS; CMBS; and
    ABS — including all of those supported by
    sub-prime
    mortgage loans. Equity securities classified as Level 3
    securities consist principally of nonredeemable preferred stock
    and common stock of companies that are privately held or
    companies for which there has been very limited trading activity
    or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the
    valuation.


 


    Prices provided by independent pricing services and independent
    non-binding broker quotations can vary widely even for the same
    security.


 


    The determination of estimated fair values by management in the
    absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation
    methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable;
    and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the
    circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific
    point in time, based on available market information and
    judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of
    the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the
    credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors
    considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate,
    maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund
    requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and
    quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of
    different methodologies and assumptions may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts. During periods of
    market disruption including periods of significantly rising or
    high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or
    illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our
    securities, for example
    sub-prime
    mortgage-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities where the
    underlying loans are Alt-A and CMBS, if trading becomes less
    frequent
    and/or
    market data becomes less observable. In times of financial
    market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active
    markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. In
    such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus
    require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such,
    valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less
    observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation
    methods which are more sophisticated or require greater
    estimation thereby resulting in estimated fair values which may
    be greater or less than the amount at which the investments may
    be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented
    credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the
    valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated
    financial statements and the
    period-to-period
    changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly.
    Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations or financial condition.


 



    If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well, We May Be Required to Recognize
    an Impairment of Our Goodwill or Other Long-Lived Assets or to
    Establish a Valuation Allowance Against the Deferred Income Tax
    Asset, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or
    Financial Condition


 


    Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire
    subsidiaries and other businesses over the estimated fair value
    of their net assets at the date of acquisition. As of
    December 31, 2010, our goodwill was $11,781, of which
    $6,959 of goodwill was established in connection with the
    acquisition of ALICO. We test goodwill at least annually for
    impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates
    of the estimated fair value of the “reporting unit” to
    which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating
    segment or a business one level below that operating segment if
    discrete financial information is prepared and regularly
    reviewed by management at that level. The estimated fair value
    of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the
    business. The performance of our businesses may be adversely
    impacted by prolonged market declines. If it is determined that
    the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill
    by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to
    net income. Such writedowns could have an adverse effect on our
    results of operation or financial position. For example, our
    goodwill has increased substantially as a result of the
    Acquisition. Market factors, the failure of ALICO to perform
    well, or issues relating to the integration of ALICO could
    result in the reporting units containing parts of ALICO having
    fair values lower than their respective carrying values, which
    would result in a writedown of goodwill and, consequently, it
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates —
    Goodwill.”


 


    Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also
    require impairment testing to determine whether changes in
    circumstances indicate that MetLife will be unable to recover
    the carrying amount of the asset group





    
    55



Table of Contents





    through future operations of that asset group or market
    conditions that will impact the estimated fair value of those
    assets. Such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations or financial position.


 


    Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences
    between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities.
    Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to
    determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s
    determination include the performance of the business including
    the ability to generate future taxable income. If based on
    available information, it is more likely than not that the
    deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation
    allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net
    income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations or financial position.


 



    If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus
    Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC, Deferred Sales
    Inducements (“DSI”) and VOBA Vary Significantly, We
    May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization and/or Impair the
    DAC, DSI and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of
    Operations or Financial Condition


 


    We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
    renewal business. Those costs that vary with and are primarily
    related to the production of new and renewal business are
    deferred and referred to as DAC. Bonus amounts credited to
    certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a
    deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are
    referred to as DSI. The recovery of DAC and DSI is dependent
    upon the future profitability of the related business. The
    amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on
    investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to
    policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest
    crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to
    administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance
    counterparties and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, we anticipate that investment
    returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of
    such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into
    management’s estimates of gross profits or margins, which
    generally are used to amortize such costs.


 


    If the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated,
    then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the
    period the actual experience is known and would result in a
    charge to income. Significant or sustained equity market
    declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the
    DAC and DSI related to variable annuity and variable universal
    life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such
    adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations or financial condition.


 


    VOBA is an intangible asset that represents the excess of book
    value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance,
    annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the
    acquisition date. The estimated fair value of the acquired
    liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by
    each block of business, of future policy and contract charges,
    premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance,
    surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns,
    nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual
    experience on the purchased business may vary from these
    projections. Revisions to estimates result in changes to the
    amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions
    are made and could result in a charge to income. Also, as VOBA
    is amortized similarly to DAC and DSI, an acceleration of the
    amortization of VOBA would occur if the estimates of gross
    profits or margins were overstated. Accordingly, the
    amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in
    which the actual experience is known and would result in a
    charge to net income. Significant or sustained equity market
    declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the
    VOBA related to variable annuity and variable universal life
    contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations or financial condition. See “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates — Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and
    Value of Business Acquired” for further consideration of
    DAC and VOBA.


 



    Changes
    in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board or Other Standard- Setting Bodies May Adversely
    Affect Our Financial Statements


 


    Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP,
    which is periodically revised
    and/or
    expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to
    adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized
    authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting
    standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets
    or seeks to revise accounting





    
    56



Table of Contents





    pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or
    transactions, as well as to issue new standards expanding
    disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have
    been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in this annual
    and quarterly reports on
    Form 10-K
    and
    Form 10-Q.
    An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such
    proposals are subject to change through the exposure process
    and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot
    be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting
    standards we are required to adopt could change the current
    accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial
    statements and that such changes could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Changes
    in Our Discount Rate, Expected Rate of Return and Expected
    Compensation Increase Assumptions for Our Pension and Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plans May Result in Increased Expenses
    and Reduce Our Profitability


 


    We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan
    costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience.
    These assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount
    rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected
    increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation.
    Changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses
    and reduce our profitability. See Note 17 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on how changes
    in these assumptions would affect plan costs.


 



    Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Products that Protect Policyholders
    Against Significant Downturns in Equity Markets May Decrease Our
    Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results if Hedging or
    Risk Management Strategies Prove Ineffective, Result in Higher
    Hedging Costs and Expose Us to Increased Counterparty
    Risk


 


    Certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed
    benefits. These include guaranteed death benefits, guaranteed
    withdrawal benefits, lifetime withdrawal guarantees, guaranteed
    minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income
    benefits. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in
    equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest
    rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future
    policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities
    associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net
    income. We use reinsurance in combination with derivative
    instruments to mitigate the liability exposure and the
    volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and
    while we believe that these and other actions have mitigated the
    risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the
    guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative
    counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. In addition, we
    are subject to the risk that hedging and other management
    procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder
    behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events,
    produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management
    techniques employed. These, individually or collectively, may
    have a material adverse effect on net income, financial
    condition or liquidity. We are also subject to the risk that the
    cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases as
    implied volatilities increase
    and/or
    interest rates decrease, resulting in a reduction to net income.


 


    The valuation of certain of the foregoing liabilities (carried
    at fair value) includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk
    that reflects the credit standing of the issuing entity. This
    adjustment, which is not hedged, is based in part on publicly
    available information regarding credit spreads related to the
    Holding Company’s debt, including credit default swaps. In
    periods of extreme market volatility, movements in these credit
    spreads can have a significant impact on net income.


 



    Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Life and Annuity Products May Increase Our
    Exposure to Foreign Exchange Risk, and Decrease Our
    Earnings


 


    Certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign
    exchange risk. Payments under these contracts may be required to
    be made in different currencies, depending on the circumstances.
    Therefore, payments may be required in a different currency than
    the currency upon which the liability valuation is based. If the
    currency upon which expected future payments are made
    strengthens relative to the currency upon which the liability
    valuation is based, the liability valuation may increase,
    resulting in a reduction of net income.




    
    57



Table of Contents






    We May
    Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets
    Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed
    Block Policies


 


    MLIC’s plan of reorganization, as amended (the
    “Plan”), required that we establish and operate an
    accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that
    the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own
    certain individual insurance policies of MLIC are met. See
    Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. We allocated assets to the closed block in an amount
    that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated
    revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are
    reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and
    liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not
    limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain
    expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the
    policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the
    experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate
    adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. We cannot
    provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows
    generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue
    from the policies included in the closed block will be
    sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these
    policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the
    shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for
    competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments
    with our general account funds.


 


    The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of those
    policies. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are
    greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block
    was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies
    included in the closed block may be greater than they would be
    in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be
    available for distribution over time only to closed block
    policyholders.


 



    Litigation
    and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our
    Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and/or
    Harm to Our Reputation


 


    We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory
    investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating
    our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our
    pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings
    specific to us and others generally applicable to business
    practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection
    with our insurance operations, plaintiffs’ lawyers may
    bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits
    alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or
    underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product
    design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits
    and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers.
    Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may
    seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and
    treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any
    probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for
    substantial periods of time. See Note 16 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain.
    Uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate
    documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of
    witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply
    the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented,
    whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.


 


    On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information
    with respect to litigation and contingencies to be reflected in
    our consolidated financial statements. The review includes
    senior legal and financial personnel. Estimates of possible
    losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the
    ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty.
    Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
    been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
    estimated.


 


    Liabilities have been established for a number of matters noted
    in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. It is possible that some of the matters could
    require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or
    establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated at
    December 31, 2010.




    
    58



Table of Contents





    MLIC and its affiliates are currently defendants in numerous
    lawsuits including class actions and individual suits, alleging
    improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance
    policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products.


 


    In addition, MLIC is a defendant in a large number of lawsuits
    seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries
    allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. These lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC’s employees during the
    period from the 1920’s through approximately the
    1950’s and have alleged that MLIC learned or should have
    learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among
    other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those
    health risks. Additional litigation relating to these matters
    may be commenced in the future. The ability of MLIC to estimate
    its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable
    uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be
    dynamic and subject to change. The availability of reliable data
    is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty the
    numerous variables that can affect liability estimates,
    including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve
    claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and
    future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a
    particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the
    jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of
    tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow
    plaintiffs to pursue claims against MLIC when exposure took
    place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known,
    and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their
    amounts. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the
    aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the
    total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain
    and may vary significantly from year to year. Accordingly, it is
    reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims
    may be materially greater than the liability recorded by us in
    our consolidated financial statements and that future charges to
    income may be necessary. The potential future charges could be
    material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which
    they are recorded.


 


    We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as
    information requests, subpoenas and books and record
    examinations, from state and federal regulators and other
    authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant
    regulatory action against us could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the
    litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer
    significant reputational harm, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations, including our ability to attract new customers,
    retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees.
    Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the
    price of stocks of companies in our industry.


 


    The New York Attorney General announced on July 29, 2010
    that his office had launched a major fraud investigation into
    the life insurance industry for practices related to the use of
    retained asset accounts as a settlement option for death
    benefits and that subpoenas requesting comprehensive data
    related to retained asset accounts have been served on MetLife
    and other insurance carriers. We received the subpoena on
    July 30, 2010. We also have received requests for documents
    and information from U.S. congressional committees and
    members as well as various state regulatory bodies, including
    the New York Insurance Department. It is possible that other
    state and federal regulators or legislative bodies may pursue
    similar investigations or make related inquiries. We cannot
    predict what effect any such investigations might have on our
    earnings or the availability of our retained asset account known
    as the Total Control Account (“TCA”), but we believe
    that our financial statements taken as a whole would not be
    materially affected. We believe that any allegations that
    information about the TCA is not adequately disclosed or that
    the accounts are fraudulent or violate state or federal laws are
    without merit.


 


    We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation,
    unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and
    other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated
    claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion,
    investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future,
    and we could become subject to further investigations and have
    lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In
    addition, increased regulatory





    
    59



Table of Contents





    scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could
    result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide
    regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    We May
    Not be Able to Protect Our Intellectual Property and May be
    Subject to Infringement Claims


 


    We rely on a combination of contractual rights with third
    parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws
    to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we
    endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or
    misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to
    litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks,
    patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope,
    validity or enforceability. This would represent a diversion of
    resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove
    successful. The inability to secure or protect our intellectual
    property assets could have a material adverse effect on our
    business and our ability to compete.


 


    We may be subject to claims by third parties for
    (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement,
    (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage
    rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any
    such claims and any resulting litigation could result in
    significant expense and liability for damages. If we were found
    to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or
    other intellectual property right, we could in some
    circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or
    services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from
    certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade
    secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to
    enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or
    implement a costly work around. Any of these scenarios could
    have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.


 



    New
    and Impending Compensation and Corporate Governance Regulations
    Could Hinder or Prevent Us From Attracting and Retaining
    Management and Other Employees with the Talent and Experience to
    Manage and Conduct Our Business Effectively


 


    The compensation and corporate governance practices of financial
    institutions have become and will continue to be subject to
    increasing regulation and scrutiny. Dodd-Frank includes new
    requirements that will affect our corporate governance and
    compensation practices, including some that have resulted in (or
    are likely to lead to) shareholders having the limited right to
    use MetLife, Inc.’s proxy statement to solicit proxies to
    vote for their own candidates for director, impose additional
    requirements for membership on Board committees, requirements
    for additional shareholder votes on compensation matters,
    requirements for policies to recover compensation previously
    paid to certain executives under certain circumstances,
    elimination of broker discretionary voting on compensation
    matters, requirements for additional performance and
    compensation disclosure, and other requirements. See
    “— Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our
    Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and
    Limit Our Growth.” In addition, the Federal Reserve Board,
    the FDIC and other U.S. bank regulators have released
    guidelines on incentive compensation that may apply to or impact
    MetLife, Inc. as a bank holding company. These requirements and
    restrictions, and others Congress or regulators may propose or
    implement, could hinder or prevent us from attracting and
    retaining management and other employees with the talent and
    experience to manage and conduct our business effectively.


 


    Although AIG has received assurances from the Troubled Asset
    Relief Program Special Master for Executive Compensation that
    neither we nor ALICO will be subject to compensation related
    requirements and restrictions under programs established in
    whole or in part under EESA, there can be no assurance that the
    Acquisition will not lead to greater public or governmental
    scrutiny, regulation, or restrictions on our compensation
    practices as a result of the Acquisition and expansion into new
    markets outside the U.S., whether in connection with AIG’s
    having received U.S. government funding or as a result of
    other factors.


 



    Legislative
    and Regulatory Activity in Health Care and Other Employee
    Benefits Could Increase the Costs or Administrative Burdens of
    Providing Benefits to Our Employees or Hinder or Prevent Us From
    Attracting and Retaining Employees, or Affect our Profitability
    As a Provider of Life Insurance, Annuities, and Non-Medical
    Health Insurance Benefit Products


 


    The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law
    on March 23, 2010, and The Health Care and Education
    Reconciliation Act of 2010, signed into law on March 30,
    2010 (together, the “Health Care Act”), may





    
    60



Table of Contents





    lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including
    us, provide health care benefits, other benefits, and other
    forms of compensation to their employees and former employees.
    Among other changes, and subject to various effective dates, the
    Health Care Act generally restricts certain limits on benefits,
    mandates coverage for certain kinds of care, extends the
    required coverage of dependent children through age 26,
    eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions or limitations,
    requires cost reporting and, in some cases, requires premium
    rebates to participants under certain circumstances, limits
    coverage waiting periods, establishes several penalties on
    employers who fail to offer sufficient coverage to their
    full-time employees, and requires employers under certain
    circumstances to provide employees with vouchers to purchase
    their own health care coverage. The Health Care Act also
    provides for increased taxation of “high cost”
    coverage, restricts the tax deductibility of certain
    compensation paid by health insurers, reduces the tax
    deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any
    retiree prescription drug benefit subsidy provided to the
    employer by the federal government, increases Medicare taxes on
    certain high earners, and establishes health insurance
    “exchanges” for individual purchases of health
    insurance.


 


    The impact of the Health Care Act on us as an employer and on
    the benefit plans we sponsor for employees or retirees and their
    dependents, whether those benefits remain competitive or
    effective in meeting their business objectives, and our costs to
    provide such benefits and our tax liabilities in connection with
    benefits or compensation, cannot be predicted. Furthermore, we
    cannot predict the impact of choices that will be made by
    various regulators, including the U.S. Treasury, the IRS, the
    U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and state
    regulators, to promulgate regulations or guidance, or to make
    determinations under or related to the Health Care Act. Either
    the Health Care Act or any of these regulatory actions could
    adversely affect our ability to attract, retain, and motivate
    talented associates. They could also result in increased or
    unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm
    our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties,
    tax provisions or other limitations in the Health Care Act and
    our competitors are not.


 


    The Health Care Act also imposes requirements on us as a
    provider of non-medical health insurance benefit products,
    subject to various effective dates. It also imposes requirements
    on the purchasers of certain of these products and has
    implications for certain other MLIC products, such as annuities.
    We cannot predict the impact of the Act or of regulations,
    guidance or determinations made by various regulators, on the
    various products that we offer. Either the Health Care Act or
    any of these regulatory actions could adversely affect our
    ability to offer certain of these products in the same manner as
    we do today. They could also result in increased or
    unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm
    our competitive position if the Health Care Act has a disparate
    impact on our products compared to products offered by our
    competitors.


 


    The Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries
    and Pension Relief Act of 2010 also includes certain provisions
    for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. These
    provisions may impact the likelihood
    and/or
    timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans
    and/or
    engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension
    obligations to an insurance company. As part of our Corporate
    Benefit Funding segment, we offer general account and separate
    account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to
    transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination
    of defined benefit pension plans. Consequently, this legislation
    could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer
    closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and
    adversely impact our results of operations.


 



    Changes
    in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and
    State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity
    Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our
    Profitability


 


    Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to
    insurance products that are also “securities,”
    including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance
    policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiaries
    and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance
    contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under
    these securities laws. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity
    contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate
    accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered
    separate account is generally divided into
    sub-accounts,
    each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is
    itself a registered investment company under the Investment
    Company Act. In addition, the variable annuity contracts and
    variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts
    are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act. Other
    subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as





    
    61



Table of Contents





    broker-dealers under the Exchange Act, and are members of and
    subject to regulation by FINRA. Further, some of our
    subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC
    under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and are also
    registered as investment advisers in various states, as
    applicable.


 


    Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to
    protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect
    investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and
    regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking
    and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict
    the conduct of business for failure to comply with the
    securities laws and regulations. A number of changes have
    recently been suggested to the laws and regulations that govern
    the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our
    distributors that could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations. For example,
    Dodd-Frank authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of conduct
    applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized
    investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard
    of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer
    without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker
    or dealer providing the advice. Further, proposals have been
    made that the SEC establish a self-regulatory organization with
    respect to registered investment advisers, which could increase
    the level of regulatory oversight over such investment advisers.


 


    In addition, state insurance regulators are becoming more active
    in adopting and enforcing suitability standards with respect to
    sales of annuities, both fixed and variable. In particular, the
    NAIC has adopted a revised Suitability in Annuity Transactions
    Model Regulation (“SAT”), that will, if enacted by the
    states, place new responsibilities upon issuing insurance
    companies with respect to the suitability of annuity sales,
    including responsibilities for training agents. Several states
    have already enacted laws based on the SAT.


 


    We also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the
    foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other
    activities similar to those described above. See
    “Business — International Regulation.”


 



    Changes
    in Tax Laws, Tax Regulations, or Interpretations of Such Laws or
    Regulations Could Increase Our Corporate Taxes; Changes in Tax
    Laws Could Make Some of Our Products Less Attractive to
    Consumers


 


    Changes in tax laws, Treasury and other regulations promulgated
    thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could
    increase our corporate taxes. The Obama Administration has
    proposed corporate tax changes. Changes in corporate tax rates
    could affect the value of deferred tax assets and deferred tax
    liabilities. Furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could
    be impacted by future earnings levels.


 


    Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less
    attractive to consumers. A shift away from life insurance and
    annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce
    our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets
    upon which we earn investment income. The Obama Administration
    has proposed certain changes to individual income tax rates and
    rules applicable to certain policies.


 


    We cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting
    corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the
    specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at
    all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Changes
    to Regulations Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
    of 1974 Could Adversely Affect Our Distribution Model by
    Restricting Our Ability to Provide Customers With
    Advice


 


    The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Internal
    Revenue Code generally restrict the provision of investment
    advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual Retirement
    Accounts (“IRAs”) if the investment recommendation
    results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm
    or their affiliates that vary according to the investment
    recommendation chosen. In March 2010, the DOL issued proposed
    regulations which provide limited relief from these investment
    advice restrictions. If the proposed rules are issued in final
    form and no additional relief is provided regarding these
    investment advice restrictions, the ability of our affiliated
    broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide
    investment advice to ERISA plans and participants, and with
    respect to IRAs, would likely be significantly restricted. Also,
    the fee and revenue arrangements of certain advisory





    
    62



Table of Contents





    programs may be required to be revenue neutral, resulting in
    potential lost revenues for these broker-dealers and their
    affiliates.


 


    Other proposed regulatory initiatives under ERISA also may
    negatively impact the current business model of our
    broker-dealers. In particular, the DOL issued a proposed
    regulation in October 2010 that would, if adopted as proposed,
    significantly broaden the circumstances under which a person or
    entity providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans
    or IRAs would be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Internal
    Revenue Code. If adopted, the proposed regulations may make it
    easier for the DOL in enforcement actions, and for
    plaintiffs’ attorneys in ERISA litigation, to attempt to
    extend fiduciary status to advisors who would not be deemed
    fiduciaries under current regulations.


 


    In addition, the DOL has issued a number of regulations recently
    that increase the level of disclosure that must be provided to
    plan sponsors and participants, and may issue additional such
    regulations in 2011. These ERISA disclosure requirements will
    likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon
    MetLife, resulting in increased costs.


 



    We May
    Be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our
    Products


 


    We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with
    demonstrated ability. In addition, there is competition for
    representatives with other types of financial services firms,
    such as independent broker-dealers.


 


    We compete with other insurers for sales representatives
    primarily on the basis of our financial position, support
    services and compensation and product features. We continue to
    undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force
    while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our
    existing sales force. We cannot provide assurance that these
    initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new agents.
    Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products
    and our results of operations and financial condition could be
    materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in
    attracting and retaining agents. See “Business —
    Competition.”


 



    MetLife,
    Inc.’s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of
    Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions
    of the MetLife Policyholder Trust


 


    Under the Plan, we established the MetLife Policyholder Trust
    (the “Trust”) to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc.
    common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving
    cash or policy credits under the plan. As of February 18,
    2011, the Trust held 220,255,199 shares, or 22.3%, of the
    outstanding shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock. Because of the
    number of shares held in the Trust and the voting provisions of
    the Trust, the Trust may affect the outcome of matters brought
    to a stockholder vote.


 


    Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions
    described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of
    common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the
    recommendations given by MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    to its stockholders or, if the Board gives no such
    recommendations, as directed by the Board. As a result of the
    voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may be
    able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of
    stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so
    long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common
    stock.


 


    If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified
    in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the
    Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in
    proportion to the instructions it receives. These actions
    include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has
    properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a
    nominee or nominees of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    or a vote on a stockholder’s proposal to oppose a Board
    nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a
    vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders,
    subject to certain conditions;







    
    63



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or
    substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or
    dissolution, of MetLife, Inc., in each case requiring a vote of
    stockholders under applicable Delaware law;




 



     
        • 

    
    any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion
    of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities
    or other property; and




 



     
        • 

    
    any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    to amend or redeem the rights under MetLife, Inc.’s
    stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to
    which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal
    counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject
    for stockholder action under Delaware law. MetLife, Inc. does
    not currently have a stockholder rights plan.





 


    If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions,
    the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by
    the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which
    will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually
    given by Trust beneficiaries.


 


    ALICO Holdings has agreed to vote all shares of MetLife, Inc.
    common stock acquired by it in connection with the Acquisition
    in proportion to the votes cast by all other stockholders of
    MetLife, Inc., including the Trust.


 



    State
    Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and Our
    By-Laws May Delay, Deter or Prevent Takeovers and Business
    Combinations that Stockholders Might Consider in Their Best
    Interests


 


    State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may
    delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders
    might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may
    prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium
    over the market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock
    offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence
    of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may
    adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife,
    Inc.’s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging
    takeover attempts in the future.


 


    Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would
    face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or
    prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of MetLife, Inc.
    might consider in their best interests. First, the insurance
    laws and regulations of the various states in which MetLife,
    Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or
    impede a business combination involving us. State insurance laws
    prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance
    company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance
    regulator. Under most states’ statutes, an entity is
    presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns,
    directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that
    insurance company or its parent company. We are also subject to
    banking regulations, and may in the future become subject to
    additional regulations. Dodd-Frank contains provisions that
    could restrict or impede consolidation, mergers and acquisitions
    by systemically significant firms
    and/or large
    bank holding companies. See “Business — U.S.
    Regulation — Financial Holding Company
    Regulation — Change of Control and Restrictions on
    Mergers and Acquisitions.” In addition, the Investment
    Company Act would require approval by the contract owners of our
    variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of
    any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying
    our variable contracts. Finally, FINRA approval would be
    necessary for a change of control of any FINRA registered
    broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of
    MetLife, Inc.


 


    In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law may affect the ability of an “interested
    stockholder” to engage in certain business combinations,
    including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional
    shares, for a period of three years following the time that the
    stockholder becomes an “interested stockholder.” An
    “interested stockholder” is defined to include persons
    owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding
    voting stock of a corporation.


 


    MetLife, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws
    also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a
    takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best
    interests. These provisions may adversely affect prevailing
    market prices for MetLife, Inc.’s common stock and include:
    classification of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors into
    three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings
    by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of
    candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals
    to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority
    voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of
    the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.




    
    64



Table of Contents






    The
    Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May
    Adversely Affect the Level of Claim Losses We Incur and the
    Value of Our Investment Portfolio


 


    The continued threat of terrorism, both within the U.S. and
    abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened
    security measures in response to these types of threats may
    cause significant volatility in global financial markets and
    result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions
    to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in
    our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines
    in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity
    caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We cannot predict
    whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain
    investments may suffer losses as a result of financial,
    commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions
    might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or
    principal on their securities or mortgage loans. The continued
    threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance
    prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us
    to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were
    able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist actions
    also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad.
    In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in
    higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. See
    “— Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital
    Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely
    Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and These
    Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future.”


 



    The
    Occurrence of Events Unanticipated in Our Disaster Recovery
    Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Impair Our
    Ability to Conduct Business Effectively


 


    In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an
    epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus,
    a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our
    disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact
    on our ability to conduct business and on our results of
    operations and financial position, particularly if those
    problems affect our computer-based data processing,
    transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable
    data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide
    reliable service. Despite our implementation of a variety of
    security measures, our computer systems could be subject to
    physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from
    unauthorized tampering. In addition, in the event that a
    significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event
    of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could
    be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere
    with our suppliers’ ability to provide goods and services
    and our employees’ ability to perform their job
    responsibilities.


 



    Our
    Associates May Take Excessive Risks Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Financial Condition and Business


 


    As an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of being paid
    to accept certain risks. The associates who conduct our
    business, including executive officers and other members of
    management, sales managers, investment professionals, product
    managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by
    making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk.
    These include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines
    and standards, product design and pricing, determining what
    assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which
    business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. Although
    we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our
    compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our
    associates incentives to take excessive risks, associates may
    take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation
    programs and practices. Similarly, although we employ controls
    and procedures designed to monitor associates’ business
    decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, there can
    be no assurance that these controls and procedures are or may be
    effective. If our associates take excessive risks, the impact of
    those risks could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition or business operations.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B