Item 1A.Risk FactorsCertain Factors affecting the Company’s PerformanceIn addition to the other information provided in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the Company’s Common Stock.  If any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.The floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. The downturn in the U.S. and global economies, along with the residential and commercial markets in such economies, negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the Company’s business. Although these difficult economic conditions have improved, there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate further. Further, significant or prolonged declines in such economies or in spending for replacement floor covering products or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.The floor covering industry in which the Company participates is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. The Company derives a majority of its sales from the replacement segment of the market. Therefore, economic changes that result in a significant or prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.The floor covering industry is highly dependent on construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature and recently experienced a downturn. The downturn in the U.S. and global economies, along with the residential and commercial markets in such economies, negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the Company’s business. Although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities lagged during the downturn. Although the difficult economic conditions have improved, there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate in the foreseeable future. A significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.In periods of rising costs, the Company may be unable to pass raw materials, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.The prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary significantly with market conditions. Although the Company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the Company’s ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the Company’s products. There have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. During such periods of time, the Company’s business may be materially adversely affected.The Company faces intense competition in the flooring industry that could decrease demand for the Company’s products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.The floor covering industry is highly competitive. The Company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger and have greater resources and access to capital than the Company does. Maintaining the Company’s competitive position may require substantial investments in the Company’s product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the Company’s products or force the Company to lower prices. Any of these factors or others may impact demand which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.Uncertainty in the credit market or downturns in the global economy and the Company’s business could affect the Company’s overall availability and cost of credit.Uncertainty in the credit markets could affect the overall availability and cost of credit.  Despite recent improvement in overall economic conditions, market conditions could impact the Company’s ability to obtain financing in the future, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness, and the cost and terms of it, remains uncertain.  These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for the Company’s products and on its financial condition and operating results. Further, these generally negative economic and business conditions may factor into the Company’s periodic 9Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statementscredit ratings assessment by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's"), Standard & Poor’s Financial Services, LLC ("S&P") and Fitch, Inc.  A rating agency’s evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include scale and diversification, brand strength, profitability, leverage, liquidity and interest coverage. Any future downgrades in the Company’s credit ratings could increase the cost of its existing credit and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. A downgrade of the Company’s credit rating by Moody's or S&P would increase interest expense on the Company’s senior unsecured $900.0 million notes by 25 basis points per downgrade. The Company can provide no assurances that downgrades will not occur.If the Company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in its existing credit facilities, it may be required to repay borrowings under the credit facilities prior to their maturity and may lose access to the credit facilities for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.   On July 8, 2011, the Company entered into a $900.0 million five-year, senior, secured revolving credit facility (the “Senior Credit Facility”). On January 20, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment to the Senior Credit Facility that provides for an incremental term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $150.0 million.  As of December 31, 2012, the amount utilized under the Senior Credit Facility including the term loan was $251.2 million resulting in a total of $793.1 million available under the Senior Credit Facility. The amount utilized included $153.9 million of borrowings, $46.8 million of standby letters of credit guaranteeing the Company’s industrial revenue bonds and $50.5 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments.  In addition, on December 19, 2012, the Company entered into a three-year on-balance sheet U.S. trade accounts receivable securitization agreement (the "Securitization Facility") that allows the Company to borrow up to $300 million based on available accounts receivable and is secured by the Company's U.S. trade accounts receivable. At December 31, 2012, the amount utilized under the Securitization Facility was $280.0 million.During the term of the credit facilities, if the Company’s cash flow is worse than expected or the U.S. trade accounts receivables are lower than expected, the Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness through a public and/or private debt offering or a new bank facility and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. If the Company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, it could materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to repay its indebtedness and otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.Additionally, the credit facilities include certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the Company’s financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, indebtedness, investments, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, payments and modifications of certain existing debt, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the Company’s business. Many of these limitations are subject to numerous exceptions. The Company is also required to maintain a Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a Consolidated Net Leverage Ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0 for the Senior Credit Facility, each as of the last day of any fiscal quarter and as defined in the Senior Credit Facility.  A failure to comply with the obligations contained in our current or future credit facilities or indentures relating to our outstanding public debt could result in an event of default or an acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. We cannot be certain that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments.The Company may be unable to obtain raw materials or sourced product on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.The principal raw materials used in the Company’s manufacturing operations include nylon, polypropylene, triexta and polyester resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the Company’s carpet and rugs business; clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used exclusively in the Company’s ceramic tile business; and wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the Company’s laminate flooring business. In addition, the Company sources finished goods as well. For certain of such raw materials and sourced products, the Company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. An adverse change in the Company’s relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier’s ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials or sourced products to the Company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the Company to purchase more expensive alternatives. An extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or sourced products used in the Company’s business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt the Company’s operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the Company’s financial periods.10Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsThe results of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into U.S. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect as of the balance sheet date and for the statement of operations accounts using, principally, the Company’s average rates during the period. The exchange rates between some of these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. The Company may not be able to manage effectively the Company’s currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the Company’s results between financial periods.The Company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments.The Company has typically grown its business through acquisitions. Growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the Company after the acquisition. The Company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the Company expects. The combination of an acquired company’s business with the Company’s existing businesses involves risks. The Company cannot be assured that reported earnings will meet expectations because of goodwill and intangible asset impairment, other asset impairments, increased interest costs and issuance of additional securities or incurrence of debt. The Company may also face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the Company’s organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. These challenges may result in:•maintaining executive offices in different locations;•manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels;•conducting business from various locations;•maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and•providing different employment and compensation arrangements for employees.The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, level of expenses and operating results.Failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the Company’s existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity, or otherwise perform as expected, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. The controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture.A failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.As part of the Company’s business strategy, the Company intends to continue to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. Although the Company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the Company may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities, to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions, to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the Company’s existing businesses, or to manage profitably acquired businesses or strategic investments.The Company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally.The Company's international activities are significant to its manufacturing capacity, revenues and profits, and the Company is further expanding internationally. The Company increasingly sells products, operates plants and invests in companies in other 11Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statementsparts of the world.  Currently, the Company has significant operations in Europe, Malaysia and Australia for its Unilin division (including Belgium, Netherlands, France, Sweden and Russia) and Mexico for its ceramic tile business, which will expand to Western Europe and Russia following the acquisition of the Marazzi Group.  In addition, the Company has invested in joint ventures in Brazil and China related to laminate flooring and ceramic tile, respectively. The business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the U.S.  The Company’s international sales, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including: •changes in foreign country regulatory requirements;•differing business practices associated with foreign operations;•various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses;•imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers;•political, legal and economic instability;•foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;•foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws;•inflation;•differing labor laws and changes in those laws;•work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products;•government price controls;•extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; •tax inefficiencies and currency exchange controls that may adversely impact its ability to repatriate cash from non-U.S. subsidiaries; and •compliance with laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials.  The Company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the Company does business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or upon its financial condition and results of operations.Negative tax consequences could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. We are subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate.  The tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation.  In calculating the provision for income taxes, we must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws.  Our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of profit before tax among these many jurisdictions.  However, it also includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets.  Our future results of operations and tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of our tax exposures. The Company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.The Company and its customers and suppliers are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements. The Company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with and enforcement of increasingly numerous and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations. In addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the U.S. or abroad that may require the Company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare legislation in the United States.Further, the Company’s operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and 12Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statementsfinished product. The applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. The Company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. For example, enactment of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by the U.S. Congress or various states, or the adoption of regulations by the Environmental Protection Agency and analogous state or foreign governmental agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which the Company conducts business could have an adverse effect on its operations and demand for its products. The Company’s manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. Increased regulation of energy use to address the possible emission of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.The nature of the Company’s business and operations, including the potential discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. The Company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such claims.The Company’s business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events.Many of the Company’s business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. These facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. The Company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations.The Company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business relating to its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to the Company. Such matters could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition if the Company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgmentsagainst the Company or settlements relating to these matters. Although the Company has product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the Company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. Further, the Company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. Moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the Company, even if the claims are not successful, could adversely affect the Company’s reputation or the reputation and sales of its products.The Company’s inability to protect its intellectual property rights or collect license revenues, particularly with respect to the Company’s patented laminate flooring technology and its registered trademarks, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.The future success and competitive position of certain of the Company’s businesses, particularly the Company’s laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the Company’s ability to obtain, maintain and license proprietary technology used in the Company’s principal product families. The Company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the U.S. and countries in Europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the Company’s employees, to protect that technology.The Company has obtained a number of patents relating to the Company’s products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the UNICLIC and Pergo family of patents, which protects its interlocking laminate flooring technology. The Company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the Company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the Company’s pending patent applications will be approved. In addition, patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of the Company’s filings, could render the Company’s intellectual property less valuable.Furthermore, despite the Company’s efforts, the Company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the Company’s technology without the Company’s authorization through license agreements, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the Company or designing around the Company’s patents. The use of theCompany’s technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the Company has developed, cause the Company to lose sales or otherwise harm the Company’s business. In addition, if the Company does not 13Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statementsobtain sufficient protection for the Company’s intellectual property, the Company’s competitiveness in the markets it serves could be significantly impaired, which could have a material effect on the Company’s business.The Company has obtained and applied for numerous U.S. and Foreign Service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. The Company cannot guarantee that any of the Company’s pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. Moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the registrations. A failure to obtain trademark registrations in the U.S. and in other countries could limit the Company’s ability to protect the Company’s trademarks and impede the Company’s marketing efforts in those jurisdictions and could have a material effect on the Company’s business.The Company generates license revenue from certain patents in the UNICLIC and Pergo families that are not expected to expire until 2017 and 2021, respectively. The Company continues to develop new sources of revenue to offset the expiration in its UNICLIC and Pergo family of patents. The failure to develop alternative revenues could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company generally requires third parties with access to the Company’s trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. While such measures are intended to protect the Company’s trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the Company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the Company’s confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. In any of these circumstances, the Company’s competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the Company’s growth and future revenue.Companies may claim that the Company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the Company’s products.In the past, companies have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the Company’s products infringe their patent rights. There can be no assurance that the Company will not receive notices in the future from parties asserting that the Company’s products infringe, or may infringe, those parties’ intellectual property rights. The Company cannot be certain that the Company’s products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Historically, patent applications in the U.S. and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the Company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the Company’s products or processes. If patents are later issued on these applications, the Company may be liable for infringement.Furthermore, the Company may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of the Company’s proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights of others. Likewise, the Company may have similar claims brought against it by competitors. Litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to the Company and divert the efforts of the Company’s technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in the Company’s favor. In the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the Company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney’s fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses authorizing the use of infringing technology. There can be no assurance that licenses for disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. In the event of a successful claim against the Company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.The long-term performance of the Company’s business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management.To be successful, the Company must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design and innovation and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. The Company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. The failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the Company’s competitive position and its operating results.The Company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance.14Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsThe Company’s stock is publicly traded. As a result, the Company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. The Company’s efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities.Declines in the Company’s business conditions may result in an impairment of the Company’s tangible and intangible assets which could result in a material non-cash charge.A significant or prolonged decrease in the Company’s market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its tangible and intangible assets which results when the carrying value of the Company’s assets exceed their fair value.Forward-Looking InformationCertain of the statements in this Form 10-K, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, and similar matters, and those that include the words “could,” “should,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects” and “estimates” or similar expressions constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. For those statements, Mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. The following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; inflation in raw material prices and other input costs; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the Company’s products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; international operations; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; tax, product and other claims; litigation; and other risks identified in Mohawk’s SEC reports and public announcements.Item 1B