Item 1a. Risk Factors

       
Certain Factors
affecting the Company's Performance



      In
addition to the other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment
in shares of Common Stock.



      If any of the events described in these risks
were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
business, financial condition and results of operations.






 
  <td valign=top align=left style='padding-top:0in;padding-right:0in;
  padding-bottom:0in;padding-left:0in'>
  9
  
 


























<br clear=all
style='page-break-before:always'>





















The floor covering industry
is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer
confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels
and demand for housing. A prolonged decline in spending for replacement floor
covering products or new construction activity could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business.  



      The floor covering industry in which the Company
participates is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as
consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending and interest
rate levels. The Company derives a majority of the Company's sales from the
replacement segment of the market. Therefore, economic changes that result in a
prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of
operations.  



      The floor covering industry is highly dependent on
construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature.
Although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically
accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, a prolonged
decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
 



      The construction industry has experienced significant
downturns in the past, which have adversely affected suppliers to the industry.
The industry could experience similar downturns in the future, which could have
a negative impact on the Company's business.



The Company
may be unable to pass increases in the costs of raw materials and fuel-related
costs on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's profitability.  



      The prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs
vary with market conditions. As a result of recent hurricanes and other general
economic factors, the Company's costs of carpet raw materials and fuel-related
costs are currently higher than historical averages and may remain so
indefinitely. Although the Company generally attempts to pass on increases in
the costs of raw materials and fuel-related costs to its customers, the
Company's ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any
increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the Company's
products. There have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of
time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. During such
periods of time, the Company's profitability may be materially adversely
affected.



The Company
faces intense competition in the industry, which could decrease demand for the
Company's products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's profitability.



      The floor covering industry is highly competitive. The
Company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors.
Some of the Company's competitors are larger and have greater resources and
access to capital than the Company does. Maintaining the Company's competitive
position may require substantial investments in the Company's product
development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales
and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased
demand for the Company's products or force the Company to lower prices. Any of
these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.



The Company
may not be able to successfully integrate Unilin or other acquisitions that the
Company may make in the future.



      The process of combining the businesses of Unilin with
the Company's existing businesses involves risks. The Company will face
challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the Company's organizations,
procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and
retaining key personnel. These challenges will result principally because the
two companies currently  




  



 maintain executive offices in
different locations;  



  
  



manufacture and sell different
types of products through different distribution channels;  



  
  

conduct business
from various locations;  

  
  

maintain different
operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and  

  
  

have different
employment and compensation arrangements for their employees.  

  





 
  <td valign=top align=left style='padding-top:0in;padding-right:0in;
  padding-bottom:0in;padding-left:0in'>
  10
  
 


























<br clear=all
style='page-break-before:always'>

























      In addition, the majority of Unilin's operating
facilities are located in Europe, where the Company has not previously operated
a manufacturing facility. As a result, the integration will be complex and will
require additional attention from members of management. The diversion of
management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration
process could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, level
of expenses and operating results. The Company may face similar challenges in
combining the Company's businesses with any other businesses that the Company
acquires in the future.



      Failure to successfully manage and integrate Unilin
with the Company's existing operations could lead to the potential loss of
customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be
vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or
other adverse consequences that could affect the Company's financial condition
and results of operations. Even if integration occurs successfully, failure of
the Unilin Acquisition or any future acquisition to achieve levels of
anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity or otherwise not
perform as expected, may adversely impact the Company's financial condition and
results of operations. The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur,
certain liabilities and expenses in connection with the Unilin Acquisition or
any future acquisitions.  



The Company
has not yet completed the testing of the adequacy of Unilin's internal control
over financial reporting, and it is possible that the Company's testing or that
of the Company's independent auditors in connection with the audit of the
Company's financial results for the year ended December 31, 2006, will
reveal material weaknesses in Unilin's internal control over financial
reporting.



      As part of the integration of Unilin, the Company is
in the process of documenting and testing of the Unilin's internal control over
financial reporting to allow management and the Company's independent
registered public accounting firm to report in 2006 on the effectiveness of the
internal control over financial reporting as it pertains to Unilin's
operations. The adequacy of Unilin's internal control over financial reporting
has not previously been attested to by any independent accounting firm, as no
such attestation was required by virtue of Unilin's status as a foreign,
privately-held company. The Company anticipates completing the testing of
Unilin's internal control over financial reporting by the end of 2006. The
Company's testing, or the subsequent testing by the Company's independent
registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in the Company's
internal control over financial reporting. In that event, the Company's
management may not be able to report that the Company's internal control over
financial reporting is effective, and the Company's auditors will not be able
to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial
reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
business.  



A failure to
identify suitable acquisition candidates and to complete acquisitions could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.  



      As part of the Company's business strategy, the
Company intends to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses.
Although the Company regularly evaluates acquisition opportunities, the Company
may not be able successfully to identify suitable acquisition candidates; to
obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund acquisitions; to
complete acquisitions; or to manage profitably acquired businesses.



The Company may be unable
to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business.  



      The
principal raw materials used in the Company's manufacturing operations include
nylon, polyester and polypropylene resins and fibers and carpet backings, which
are used primarily in the Company's carpet and rugs business; talc, clay,
nepheline syenite and various glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and
stains, which are used exclusively in the Company's ceramic tile business;
wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the Company's laminate
flooring business; and other materials. An extended interruption in the supply
of these or other raw materials used in the Company's business or in the supply
of suitable substitute materials would disrupt the Company's operations, which
could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.  












 
  <td valign=top align=left style='padding-top:0in;padding-right:0in;
  padding-bottom:0in;padding-left:0in'>
  11
  
 


























<br clear=all
style='page-break-before:always'>





















The Company
has been, and in the future may be, subject to claims and liabilities under
environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could be
significant.  



      The
Company's operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety
laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater
discharges, and the use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous
materials. The applicable requirements under these laws are subject to
amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing
interpretations of agencies or courts. The Company could incur material
expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and
penalties.  



      The
nature of the Company's operations, including the potential discovery of
presently unknown environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims
under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. The Company could
incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such claims.  



Changes in
international trade laws and in the business, political and regulatory
environment in Mexico and Europe could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business.  



      The Company's Monterrey, Mexico manufacturing facility
and the Company's manufacturing facilities in Europe represent a significant
portion of the Company's total manufacturing capacity for ceramic tile and
laminate flooring, respectively.  In addition, as a result of the Unilin
Acquisition, the Company now has more significant general operations abroad,
particularly in Europe. Accordingly, an event that has a material adverse
impact on the Company's Mexican operations could have a material adverse effect
on the Company's tile operations as a whole.  Similarly, an event that has a
material adverse impact on the Company's European operations could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's laminate flooring operations, as a
whole.  The business, regulatory and political environments in Mexico and in
Europe differ from those in the United States, and the Company's Mexican and
European operations are exposed to legal, currency, tax, political, and
economic risks specific to the countries in which they occur, particularly with
respect to labor regulations, which tend to be more stringent in Europe and, to
a lesser extent, Mexico.  The Company cannot assure investors that the Company
will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter
the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the Company does
business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's operations or upon the Company's financial
condition and results of operations.



The Company
could face increased competition as a result of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade ("GATT") and the North American Free Trade Agreement
("NAFTA").  



      The Company is uncertain what effect reduced import
duties under GATT may have on the Company's operations, although these reduced
rates may stimulate additional competition from manufacturers that export
ceramic tile to the United States.  



      Although NAFTA lowers the tariffs imposed on the
Company's ceramic tile manufactured in Mexico and sold in the United States and
will eliminate such tariffs entirely on January 1, 2008, it may also
stimulate competition in the United States and Canada from manufacturers
located in Mexico.  



Fluctuations
in currency exchange rates may impact the Company's financial condition and
results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the
Company's financial periods.  



      The results of the Company's foreign subsidiaries
reported in the local currency are translated into U.S. dollars for balance
sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for
the statement of earnings accounts using the Company's weighted average rates
during the period.  The exchange rates between some of these currencies and the
U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to
do so in the future. Although the Company has not yet experienced material
losses due to foreign currency fluctuation, the Company may not be able to
manage effectively the Company's currency translation risks, and volatility in
currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the carrying
value of the Company's debt and results of operations and affect comparability
of the Company's results between financial periods.  






 
  <td valign=top align=left style='padding-top:0in;padding-right:0in;
  padding-bottom:0in;padding-left:0in'>
  12
  
 


























<br clear=all
style='page-break-before:always'>





















If the
Company is unable to protect the Company's intellectual property rights,
particularly with respect to the Company's patented laminate flooring
technology and the Company's registered trademarks, the Company's business and
prospects could be harmed.  



      The future success and competitive position of certain
of the Company's businesses, particularly the Company's laminate flooring
business, depend in part upon the Company's ability to obtain and maintain
proprietary technology used in the Company's principal product families. The
Company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the
United States and countries in Europe, as
well as confidentiality agreements with
some of the Company's employees, to protect that technology.  



      The Company has obtained a number of patents relating
to the Company's products and associated methods and has filed applications for
additional patents, including the UNICLIC® family of
patents, which protects Unilin's interlocking laminate flooring panel
technology. The Company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or
issued to it will provide the Company with competitive advantages, that third
parties will not challenge these patents, or that the Company's pending patent
applications will be approved. In addition, patent filings by third parties,
whether made before or after the date of the Company's filings, could render
the Company's intellectual property less valuable.  



      Furthermore, despite the Company's efforts, the
Company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using
the Company's technology without the Company's authorization, independently
developing technology that is similar to that of the Company or designing
around the Company's patents. The use of the Company's technology or similar
technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the Company
has developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm the Company's business.
In addition, if the Company does not obtain sufficient protection for the
Company's intellectual property, the Company's competitiveness in the markets
it serves could be significantly impaired, which would limit the Company's
growth and future revenue.



      The Company has obtained and applied for numerous U.S.
and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to
evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as
appropriate. The Company cannot guarantee that any of the Company's pending or
future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental
authorities. Moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties
may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the registrations. A failure to
obtain trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries
could limit the Company's ability to protect the Company's trademarks and
impede the Company's marketing efforts in those jurisdictions.



      The Company requires third parties with access to the
Company's trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. While
such measures are intended to protect the Company's trade secrets, there can be
no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the Company will
have adequate remedies for any breach or that the Company's confidential and
proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by
or become otherwise known to third parties. In any of these circumstances, the
Company's competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit
the Company's growth and future revenue.



Companies
may claim that the Company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary
rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from
selling the Company's products.  



      The Company has in the past had companies claim that
certain technologies incorporated in the Company's products infringe their patent
rights. There can be no assurance that the Company will not receive notices in
the future from parties asserting that the Company's products infringe, or may
infringe, those parties' intellectual property rights. The Company cannot be
certain that the Company's products do not and will not infringe issued patents
or other intellectual property rights of others. Historically, patent
applications in the United States and some foreign countries have not been
publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until
18 months following submission), and the Company may not be aware of currently
filed patent applications that relate to the Company's products or processes.
If patents are later issued on these applications, the Company may be liable
for infringement.






 
  <td valign=top align=left style='padding-top:0in;padding-right:0in;
  padding-bottom:0in;padding-left:0in'>
  13
  
 


























<br clear=all
style='page-break-before:always'>





















      Furthermore, the Company may initiate claims or
litigation against parties for infringement of the Company's proprietary rights
or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the
proprietary rights of others. Likewise, the Company may have similar claims
brought against it by competitors. Litigation, either as plaintiff or
defendant, could result in significant expense to the Company and divert the
efforts of the Company's technical and management personnel from operations,
whether or not such litigation is resolved in the Company's favor. In the event
of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the Company might be required to
pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorneys fees),
discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant
resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing
technology. There can be no assurance that licenses to disputed technology or
intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms,
if at all. In the event of a successful claim against the Company along with
failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the Company's business,
financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely
affected.



Forward-Looking Information



      Certain
of the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those
anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating
strategies, proposed acquisitions, and similar matters, and those that include
the words "believes," "anticipates," "forecast,"
"estimates" or similar expressions constitute "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.  For those statements, Mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor
for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. There can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which
involve risks and uncertainties. The following important factors could cause
future results to differ: changes in industry conditions; competition; raw
material prices; energy costs; timing and level of capital expenditures;
integration of acquisitions; introduction of new products; rationalization of
operations; litigation; and other risks identified in Mohawk's SEC reports and
public announcements.



Item 1b