Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Certain
    Factors affecting the Company’s Performance


 


    In addition to the other information provided in this
    Form 10-K,
    the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating
    an investment in shares of Common Stock.


 


    If any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    The
    floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general
    economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income,
    corporate and government spending, interest rate levels,
    availability of credit and demand for housing. The current
    downturn in the U.S. and global economies, along with the
    residential and commercial markets in such economies, has
    negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the
    Company’s business. These difficult economic conditions may
    continue or deteriorate in the foreseeable future. Further,
    significant or prolonged declines in such economies or in
    spending for replacement floor covering products or new
    construction activity could have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s business.


 


    The floor covering industry in which the Company participates is
    highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as
    consumer confidence and income, corporate and government
    spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and
    demand for housing. The Company derives a majority of the
    Company’s sales from





    
    9



Table of Contents





    the replacement segment of the market. Therefore, economic
    changes that result in a significant or prolonged decline in
    spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s business and
    results of operations.


 


    The floor covering industry is highly dependent on residential
    and commercial construction activity, including new
    construction, which is cyclical in nature and currently in a
    downturn. The current downturn in the U.S. and global
    economies, along with the housing markets in such economies, has
    negatively impacted the floor covering industry and the
    Company’s business. Although the impact of a decline in new
    construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in
    remodeling and replacement activity, these activities have also
    lagged during the current downturn. The difficult economic
    conditions may continue or deteriorate in the foreseeable
    future. A significant or prolonged decline in residential or
    commercial construction activity could have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.


 



    Uncertainty
    in the credit market or downturns in the global economy and the
    Company’s business could affect the Company’s overall
    availability and cost of credit.


 


    Uncertainty in the credit markets could affect the overall
    availability and cost of credit. The impact of the current
    situation on our ability to obtain financing, including any
    financing necessary to refinance our existing senior unsecured
    notes, in the future, and the cost and terms of it, is
    uncertain. These and other economic factors could have a
    material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our
    financial condition and operating results. Further, these
    generally negative economic and business conditions may factor
    into our periodic credit ratings assessment by either or both
    Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and Standard &
    Poor’s Ratings Services. The rating agency’s
    evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include scale
    and diversification, brand strength, profitability, leverage,
    liquidity and interest coverage. During 2009, our senior
    unsecured notes were downgraded by the rating agencies, which
    will increase the Company’s interest expense by
    approximately $10.5 million per year and could adversely
    affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in
    the future. Additional downgrades in the Company’s credit
    ratings could further increase the cost of its existing credit
    and adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain
    additional credit in the future, and the Company can provide no
    assurances that additional downgrades will not occur.
    Additionally, our credit facilities require us to meet certain
    affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on
    our financial and business operations, including limitations
    relating to debt, investments, asset dispositions and changes in
    the nature of our business. We are also required to maintain a
    fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0 during any period that
    the unutilized amount available under the ABL Facility is less
    than 15% of the amount available under the ABL Facility. Failure
    to comply with these covenants could materially and adversely
    affect our ability to finance our operations or capital needs
    and to engage in other activities that may be in our best
    interest.


 



    The
    Company faces intense competition in the flooring industry,
    which could decrease demand for the Company’s products or
    force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s profitability.


 


    The floor covering industry is highly competitive. The Company
    faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent
    distributors. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger
    and have greater resources and access to capital than the
    Company does. Maintaining the Company’s competitive
    position may require substantial investments in the
    Company’s product development efforts, manufacturing
    facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing
    activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased
    demand for the Company’s products or force the Company to
    lower prices. Any of these factors or others may impact demand
    which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business.


 



    The
    Company may be unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis,
    which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business.


 


    The principal raw materials used in the Company’s
    manufacturing operations include nylon and polyester and
    polypropylene and triexta resins and fibers, which are used
    primarily in the Company’s carpet and rugs business; talc,
    clay, nepheline syenite and various glazes, including frit
    (ground glass), zircon and stains, which





    
    10



Table of Contents





    are used exclusively in the Company’s ceramic tile
    business; wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in
    the Company’s laminate flooring business; and other
    materials. For certain of such raw materials, the Company is
    dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. An adverse
    change in the Company’s relationship with such a supplier,
    the financial condition of such a supplier or such
    supplier’s ability to manufacture or deliver such raw
    materials to the Company could lead to an interruption of
    supply. An extended interruption in the supply of these or other
    raw materials used in the Company’s business or in the
    supply of suitable substitute materials would disrupt the
    Company’s operations, which could have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s business.


 



    In
    periods of rising costs, the Company may be unable to pass raw
    materials and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers,
    which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    profitability.


 


    The prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary with
    market conditions. Although the Company generally attempts to
    pass on increases in raw material and fuel-related costs to its
    customers, the Company’s ability to do so is dependent upon
    the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures
    and market conditions for the Company’s products. There
    have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time
    during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered.
    During such periods of time, the Company’s profitability
    may be materially adversely affected.


 



    Fluctuations
    in currency exchange rates may impact the Company’s
    financial condition and results of operations and may affect the
    comparability of results between the Company’s financial
    periods.


 


    The results of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries reported
    in the local currency are translated into U.S. dollars for
    balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect as of the
    balance sheet date and for the statement of operations accounts
    using, principally, the Company’s average rates during the
    period. The exchange rates between some of these currencies and
    the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated
    significantly and may continue to do so in the future. The
    Company may not be able to manage effectively the Company’s
    currency translation risks and volatility in currency exchange
    rates may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of
    the Company’s results between financial periods.


 



    The
    Company may experience certain risks associated with
    acquisitions.


 


    The Company has typically grown its business through
    acquisitions. Growth through acquisitions involves risks, many
    of which may continue to affect the Company after the
    acquisition. The Company cannot give assurance that an acquired
    company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and
    production that the Company expects. The combination of an
    acquired company’s business with the Company’s
    existing businesses involves risks. The Company cannot be
    assured that reported earnings will meet expectations because of
    goodwill and intangible asset impairment, increased interest
    costs and issuance of additional securities or incurrence of
    debt. The Company may also face challenges in consolidating
    functions, integrating the Company’s organizations,
    procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and
    efficient manner and retaining key personnel. These challenges
    may result in:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    maintaining executive offices in different locations;




 



     
        • 

    
    manufacturing and selling different types of products through
    different distribution channels;




 



     
        • 

    
    conducting business from various locations;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintaining different operating systems and software on
    different computer hardware; and




 



     
        • 

    
    providing different employment and compensation arrangements for
    employees.





 


    The diversion of management attention and any difficulties
    encountered in the transition and integration process could have
    a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, level
    of expenses and operating results.




    
    11



Table of Contents





    Failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with
    the Company’s existing operations could lead to the
    potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the
    potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new
    operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or
    other adverse consequences that could affect the Company’s
    financial condition and results of operations. Even if
    integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to
    achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or
    productivity or otherwise perform as expected, may adversely
    impact the Company’s financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    A
    failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to
    complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s business.


 


    As part of the Company’s business strategy, the Company
    intends to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary
    businesses. Although the Company regularly evaluates acquisition
    opportunities, the Company may not be able successfully to
    identify suitable acquisition candidates; to obtain sufficient
    financing on acceptable terms to fund acquisitions; to complete
    acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the
    Company’s existing businesses; or to manage profitably
    acquired businesses.


 



    The
    Company has been, and in the future may be, subject to claims
    and liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and
    regulations, which could be significant.


 


    The Company’s operations are subject to various
    environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including
    those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the
    use, storage, treatment and disposal of materials and finished
    product. The applicable requirements under these laws are
    subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional
    requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or
    courts. The Company could incur material expenditures to comply
    with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties.


 


    The nature of the Company’s operations, including the
    potential discovery of presently unknown environmental
    conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under
    environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. The
    Company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection
    with such claims.


 



    We may
    be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings in
    the ordinary course of business relating to our products, which
    could affect our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to a
    variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal
    proceedings, including those relating to product liability,
    product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other
    matters that are inherently subject to many uncertainties
    regarding the possibility of a loss to us. Such matters could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition if we are unable to
    successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if our
    insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments
    against us or settlements relating to these matters. Although we
    have product liability insurance, our policies may not provide
    coverage for certain claims against us or may not be sufficient
    to cover all possible liabilities. Moreover, adverse publicity
    arising from claims made against us, even if the claims were not
    successful, could adversely affect our reputation or the
    reputation and sales of our products.


 



    Regulatory
    decisions could cause the prices of fuel and energy to
    fluctuate, and any price increases that result may reduce
    results of operations.


 


    The Company’s manufacturing operations and shipping needs
    require high inputs of energy, including the use of substantial
    amounts of electricity, natural gas, and petroleum based
    products, which are subject to price fluctuations due to changes
    in supply and demand and are also affected by local, national
    and international regulatory decisions. Significant increases in
    the cost of these commodities, either as a result of changes in
    market prices due to regulatory decisions or as a result of
    additional costs in order to comply with regulatory decisions,
    may have adverse effects on the Company’s results of
    operations and cash flows if the Company is unable to pass such
    increases to its customers in a timely manner.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    Changes
    in laws or in the business, political and regulatory
    environments in which the Company operates could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s business.


 


    The Company’s manufacturing facilities in Mexico and Europe
    represent a significant portion of the Company’s capacity
    for ceramic tile and laminate flooring, respectively, and the
    Company’s European operations represent a significant
    source of the Company’s revenues and profits. Accordingly,
    an event that has a material adverse impact on either of these
    operations or that changes the current tax treatment of the
    results thereof could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company. The business, regulatory and political environments in
    Mexico and Europe differ from those in the U.S., and the
    Company’s Mexican and European operations are exposed to
    legal, currency, tax, political, and economic risks specific to
    the countries in which they occur, particularly with respect to
    labor regulations, which tend to be more stringent in Europe
    and, to a lesser extent, Mexico. The Company cannot assure
    investors that the Company will succeed in developing and
    implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing
    factors effectively in each location where the Company does
    business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have
    a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or
    upon the Company’s financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    If the
    Company is unable to protect the Company’s intellectual
    property rights, particularly with respect to the Company’s
    patented laminate flooring technology and the Company’s
    registered trademarks, the Company’s business and prospects
    could be harmed.


 


    The future success and competitive position of certain of the
    Company’s businesses, particularly the Company’s
    laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the
    Company’s ability to obtain and maintain proprietary
    technology used in the Company’s principal product
    families. The Company relies, in part, on the patent, trade
    secret and trademark laws of the U.S. and countries in
    Europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the
    Company’s employees, to protect that technology.


 


    The Company has obtained a number of patents relating to the
    Company’s products and associated methods and has filed
    applications for additional patents, including the
    UNICLIC®

    family of patents, which protects Unilin’s interlocking
    laminate flooring panel technology. The Company cannot assure
    investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide
    the Company with competitive advantages, that third parties will
    not challenge these patents, or that the Company’s pending
    patent applications will be approved. In addition, patent
    filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date
    of the Company’s filings, could render the Company’s
    intellectual property less valuable.


 


    Furthermore, despite the Company’s efforts, the Company may
    be unable to prevent competitors
    and/or third
    parties from using the Company’s technology without the
    Company’s authorization, independently developing
    technology that is similar to that of the Company or designing
    around the Company’s patents. The use of the Company’s
    technology or similar technology by others could reduce or
    eliminate any competitive advantage the Company has developed,
    cause the Company to lose sales or otherwise harm the
    Company’s business. In addition, if the Company does not
    obtain sufficient protection for the Company’s intellectual
    property, the Company’s competitiveness in the markets it
    serves could be significantly impaired, which would limit the
    Company’s growth and future revenue.


 


    The Company has obtained and applied for numerous U.S. and
    Foreign Service marks and trademark registrations and will
    continue to evaluate the registration of additional service
    marks and trademarks, as appropriate. The Company cannot
    guarantee that any of the Company’s pending or future
    applications will be approved by the applicable governmental
    authorities. Moreover, even if such applications are approved,
    third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the
    registrations. A failure to obtain trademark registrations in
    the U.S. and in other countries could limit the
    Company’s ability to protect the Company’s trademarks
    and impede the Company’s marketing efforts in those
    jurisdictions.


 


    The Company generally requires third parties with access to the
    Company’s trade secrets to agree to keep such information
    confidential. While such measures are intended to protect the
    Company’s trade secrets, there can be no assurance that
    these agreements will not be breached, that the Company will
    have adequate remedies for any breach or that the Company’s
    confidential and proprietary information and technology will not
    be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third
    parties. In any of these circumstances,





    
    13



Table of Contents





    the Company’s competitiveness could be significantly
    impaired, which would limit the Company’s growth and future
    revenue.


 



    Companies
    may claim that the Company infringed their intellectual property
    or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant
    expenses or prevent it from selling the Company’s
    products.


 


    In the past, companies have claimed that certain technologies
    incorporated in the Company’s products infringe their
    patent rights. There can be no assurance that the Company will
    not receive notices in the future from parties asserting that
    the Company’s products infringe, or may infringe, those
    parties’ intellectual property rights. The Company cannot
    be certain that the Company’s products do not and will not
    infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of
    others. Historically, patent applications in the U.S. and
    some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until
    the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until
    18 months following submission), and the Company may not be
    aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the
    Company’s products or processes. If patents are later
    issued on these applications, the Company may be liable for
    infringement.


 


    Furthermore, the Company may initiate claims or litigation
    against parties for infringement of the Company’s
    proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity,
    noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights
    of others. Likewise, the Company may have similar claims brought
    against it by competitors. Litigation, either as plaintiff or
    defendant, could result in significant expense to the Company
    and divert the efforts of the Company’s technical and
    management personnel from operations, whether or not such
    litigation is resolved in the Company’s favor. In the event
    of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the Company might
    be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive
    damages and attorney’s fees), discontinue the use and sale
    of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop
    non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing
    technology. There can be no assurance that licenses to disputed
    technology or intellectual property rights would be available on
    reasonable commercial terms, if at all. In the event of a
    successful claim against the Company along with failure to
    develop or license a substitute technology, the Company’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations would be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    The
    Company is subject to changing regulation of corporate
    governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs
    and the risk of noncompliance.


 


    The Company’s stock is publicly traded. As a result, the
    Company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and
    state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged
    with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies
    whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including
    the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and NYSE,
    frequently issue new requirements and regulations, such as the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company’s efforts to comply
    with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and
    are likely to continue to result in, increased general and
    administrative costs and diversion of management’s time and
    attention from revenue generating activities to compliance
    activities.


 



    Declines
    in the Company’s business conditions may result in an
    impairment of the Company’s tangible and intangible assets
    which could result in a material non-cash charge.


 


    A decrease in the Company’s market capitalization,
    including a short-term decline in stock price, or a negative
    long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of
    its tangible and intangible assets which results when the
    carrying value of the Company’s assets exceed their fair
    value. In 2008, the Company’s goodwill and other intangible
    assets suffered an impairment and additional impairment charges
    could occur in future periods.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Information


 


    Certain of the statements in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    particularly those anticipating future performance, business
    prospects, growth and operating strategies, proposed
    acquisitions, and similar matters, and those that include the
    words “believes,” “anticipates,”
    “forecast,” “estimates” or similar
    expressions





    
    14



Table of Contents





    constitute “forward-looking statements” within the
    meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended. For those statements, Mohawk claims the
    protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements
    contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995. There can be no assurance that the forward-looking
    statements will be accurate because they are based on many
    assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. The
    following important factors could cause future results to
    differ: changes in industry conditions; competition; raw
    material prices; energy costs; timing and level of capital
    expenditures; integration of acquisitions; legislative
    enactments and regulatory decisions; introduction of new
    products; rationalization of operations; litigation; and other
    risks identified in Mohawk’s SEC reports and public
    announcements.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B