Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Certain
    Factors affecting the Company’s Performance


 


    In addition to the other information provided in this
    Form 10-K,
    the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating
    an investment in shares of the Company’s Common Stock.


 


    If any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    The
    floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general
    economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income,
    corporate and government spending, interest rate levels,
    availability of credit and demand for housing. The downturn in
    the U.S. and global economies beginning in 2006, along with the
    residential and commercial markets in such economies, negatively
    impacted the floor covering industry and the Company’s
    business. While overall economic conditions and the housing and
    flooring industries have begun to show signs of recovering, this
    improvement may be temporary and economic conditions may
    deteriorate in the foreseeable future. Further, significant or
    prolonged declines in such economies or in spending for
    replacement floor covering products or new construction activity
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business.


 


    The floor covering industry in which the Company participates is
    highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as
    consumer confidence and income, corporate and government
    spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and
    demand for housing. The Company derives a majority of its sales
    from the





    
    9



Table of Contents





    replacement segment of the market. Therefore, economic changes
    that result in a significant or prolonged decline in spending
    for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of
    operations.


 


    The floor covering industry is highly dependent on residential
    and commercial construction activity, including new
    construction, which is cyclical in nature and currently in a
    downturn. The downturn in the U.S. and global economies,
    along with the housing markets in such economies, negatively
    impacted the floor covering industry and the Company’s
    business. Although the impact of a decline in new construction
    activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling
    and replacement activity, these activities have also lagged
    during the downturn. While overall economic conditions and the
    housing and flooring industries have begun to show signs of
    recovering, this improvement may be temporary and economic
    conditions may deteriorate in the foreseeable future. A
    significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial
    construction activity could have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s business and results of operations.


 



    In
    periods of rising costs, the Company may be unable to pass raw
    materials, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its
    customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s profitability.


 


    The prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs could vary
    significantly with market conditions. Although the Company
    generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, energy
    and fuel-related costs to its customers, the Company’s
    ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any
    increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the
    Company’s products. There have been in the past, and may be
    in the future, periods of time during which increases in these
    costs cannot be recovered. During such periods of time, the
    Company’s profitability may be materially adversely
    affected.


 



    Uncertainty
    in the credit market or downturns in the global economy and the
    Company’s business could affect the Company’s overall
    availability and cost of credit.


 


    Uncertainty in the credit markets could affect the overall
    availability and cost of credit. Despite recent improvement in
    overall economic conditions, the impact of the economic downturn
    on the Company’s ability to obtain financing, including any
    financing necessary to refinance its existing senior unsecured
    notes, in the future, and the cost and terms of it, remains
    uncertain. These and other economic factors could have a
    material adverse effect on demand for the Company’s
    products and on its financial condition and operating results.
    Further, these generally negative economic and business
    conditions may factor into the Company’s periodic credit
    ratings assessment by either or both Moody’s Investors
    Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor’s Ratings
    Services. A rating agency’s evaluation is based on a number
    of factors, which include scale and diversification, brand
    strength, profitability, leverage, liquidity and interest
    coverage. During 2009, the Company’s senior unsecured notes
    were downgraded by the rating agencies, which increased the
    Company’s interest expense by approximately
    $0.2 million per quarter per $100 million of
    outstanding notes and could adversely affect the cost of and
    ability to obtain additional credit in the future. Additional
    downgrades in the Company’s credit ratings could further
    increase the cost of its existing credit and adversely affect
    the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the
    future, and the Company can provide no assurances that
    additional downgrades will not occur.


 



    The
    Company has a significant level of indebtedness that must be
    repaid or refinanced. In addition, if the Company were unable to
    meet certain covenants contained in the ABL Facility, it may be
    required to repay borrowings under the ABL Facility prior to
    their maturity and may lose access to the ABL Facility for
    additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its
    operations.


 


    The Company’s outstanding 7.20% senior notes in the
    aggregate amount of $400.0 million are due April 15,
    2012. The Company’s $600.0 million four-year, senior,
    secured revolving credit facility (the “ABL Facility”)
    is scheduled to mature on September 2, 2013, but the
    maturity date will accelerate, including the acceleration of any
    unamortized deferred financing costs, to January 15, 2012,
    if the Company’s outstanding 7.20% senior notes due
    April 15, 2012 have not been repaid, refinanced, defeased
    or adequately reserved for by the Company, as reasonably
    determined by the Administrative Agent, prior to
    January 15, 2012. The Company believes it will be able to
    make adequate reserves for such senior notes with cash and cash





    
    10



Table of Contents





    equivalents, unutilized borrowing availability under the ABL
    Facility and other financing sources, including public debt
    markets or new bank facilities. As of December 31, 2010,
    the amount utilized under the ABL Facility was
    $387.1 million resulting in a total of $169.6 million
    available under the ABL Facility. The amount utilized included
    the reserved amount of $280.0 million related to the
    repayment of the Company’s outstanding 5.75% senior
    notes due January 15, 2011, $53.5 million of standby
    letters of credit guaranteeing the Company’s industrial
    revenue bonds and $53.5 million of standby letters of
    credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor
    commitments. Immediately following the repayment of the
    5.75% senior notes due January 15, 2011 at maturity, a
    total of $289.6 million was available under the ABL
    Facility. While the Company currently believes it has access to
    other uncommitted financing sources, including public debt
    markets, to satisfy the January 15, 2012 requirements under
    the ABL Facility and the subsequent repayment of the
    7.20% senior notes due April 15, 2012, there can be no
    assurances that the Company will be able to complete any
    necessary financing transactions prior to the relevant date
    under the ABL Facility or the April 15, 2012 maturity date.


 


    If the Company’s cash flow is worse than expected or the
    borrowing base on its ABL Facility declines, the Company may
    need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness in the
    public debt markets and may not be able to do so on terms
    acceptable to it, or at all. If the Company is unable to access
    debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due
    to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market
    disruption, or other factors, it could materially adversely
    affect the Company’s ability to repay its indebtedness and
    otherwise have a substantial adverse effect on the
    Company’s financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Additionally, the Company’s credit facilities require it to
    meet certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose
    restrictions on its financial and business operations, including
    limitations relating to debt, investments, asset dispositions
    and changes in the nature of its business. The Company is also
    required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0
    during any period that the unutilized amount available under the
    ABL Facility is less than 15% of the amount available under the
    ABL Facility. Failure to comply with these covenants could
    materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to
    finance its operations or capital needs and to engage in other
    activities that may be in the Company’s best interest.


 



    The
    Company faces intense competition in the flooring industry,
    which could decrease demand for the Company’s products or
    force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s profitability.


 


    The floor covering industry is highly competitive. The Company
    faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent
    distributors. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger
    and have greater resources and access to capital than the
    Company does. Maintaining the Company’s competitive
    position may require substantial investments in the
    Company’s product development efforts, manufacturing
    facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing
    activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased
    demand for the Company’s products or force the Company to
    lower prices. Any of these factors or others may impact demand
    which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business.


 



    The
    Company may be unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis,
    which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business.


 


    The principal raw materials used in the Company’s
    manufacturing operations include nylon, polypropylene, triexta
    and polyester resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the
    Company’s carpet and rugs business; clay, talc, nepheline
    syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and
    stains, which are used exclusively in the Company’s ceramic
    tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily
    in the Company’s laminate flooring business. For certain of
    such raw materials, the Company is dependent on one or a small
    number of suppliers. An adverse change in the Company’s
    relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of
    such a supplier or such supplier’s ability to manufacture
    or deliver such raw materials to the Company could lead to an
    interruption of supply or require the Company to purchase more
    expensive alternatives. An extended interruption in the supply
    of these or other raw materials used in the Company’s
    business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials would
    disrupt the Company’s operations, which could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s business.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    Fluctuations
    in currency exchange rates may impact the Company’s
    financial condition and results of operations and may affect the
    comparability of results between the Company’s financial
    periods.


 


    The results of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries reported
    in the local currency are translated into U.S. dollars for
    balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect as of the
    balance sheet date and for the statement of operations accounts
    using, principally, the Company’s average rates during the
    period. The exchange rates between some of these currencies and
    the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated
    significantly and may continue to do so in the future. The
    Company may not be able to manage effectively the Company’s
    currency translation risks and volatility in currency exchange
    rates may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of
    the Company’s results between financial periods.


 



    The
    Company may experience certain risks associated with
    acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic
    investments.


 


    The Company has typically grown its business through
    acquisitions. Growth through acquisitions involves risks, many
    of which may continue to affect the Company after the
    acquisition. The Company cannot give assurance that an acquired
    company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and
    production that the Company expects. The combination of an
    acquired company’s business with the Company’s
    existing businesses involves risks. The Company cannot be
    assured that reported earnings will meet expectations because of
    goodwill and intangible asset impairment, increased interest
    costs and issuance of additional securities or incurrence of
    debt. The Company may also face challenges in consolidating
    functions, integrating the Company’s organizations,
    procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and
    efficient manner and retaining key personnel. These challenges
    may result in:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    maintaining executive offices in different locations;




 



     
        • 

    
    manufacturing and selling different types of products through
    different distribution channels;




 



     
        • 

    
    conducting business from various locations;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintaining different operating systems and software on
    different computer hardware; and




 



     
        • 

    
    providing different employment and compensation arrangements for
    employees.





 


    The diversion of management attention and any difficulties
    encountered in the transition and integration process could have
    a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, level
    of expenses and operating results.


 


    Failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with
    the Company’s existing operations could lead to the
    potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the
    potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new
    operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or
    other adverse consequences that could affect the Company’s
    financial condition and results of operations. Even if
    integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to
    achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or
    productivity or otherwise perform as expected, may adversely
    impact the Company’s financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    In addition, we have made certain investments, including through
    joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and
    lack management and operational control. The controlling joint
    venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business
    interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours,
    and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the
    controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company
    may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the
    value of our investment in the joint venture.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    A
    failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners
    for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could
    have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business.


 


    As part of the Company’s business strategy, the Company
    intends to continue to pursue a wide array of potential
    strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary
    businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures.
    Although the Company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the
    Company may not be able successfully to identify suitable
    acquisition candidates or investment opportunities, to obtain
    sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic
    transactions, to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired
    businesses with the Company’s existing businesses, or to
    manage profitably acquired businesses or strategic investments.


 



    The
    Company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs,
    liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and
    regulations, which could be significant.


 


    The Company and its customers and suppliers are subject to
    various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing
    requirements. The Company faces risks and uncertainties related
    to compliance with and enforcement of increasingly numerous and
    complex federal, state and local laws and regulations. In
    addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the
    U.S. or abroad that may require the Company to incur
    additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on
    an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare
    legislation in the United States.


 


    Further, the Company’s operations are subject to various
    environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including
    those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the
    use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and
    finished product. The applicable requirements under these laws
    are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional
    requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or
    courts. The Company could incur material expenditures to comply
    with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties
    and increased costs of its operations. For example, enactment of
    climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by
    the U.S. Congress or various states, or the adoption of
    regulations by the EPA and analogous state or foreign
    governmental agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse
    gases in areas in which the Company conducts business could have
    an adverse effect on its operations and demand for its products.
    The Company’s manufacturing processes use a significant
    amount of energy, especially natural gas. Increased regulation
    of energy use to address the possible emission of greenhouse
    gases and climate change could materially increase the
    Company’s manufacturing costs.


 


    The nature of the Company’s business and operations,
    including the potential discovery of presently unknown
    environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under
    environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. The
    Company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection
    with such claims.


 



    The
    Company’s business operations could suffer significant
    losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other
    unexpected events.


 


    Many of the Company’s business activities involve
    substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many
    products are produced at a limited number of locations. These
    facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters,
    such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire
    or other unexpected events. The Company could incur uninsured
    losses and liabilities arising from such events, including
    damage to its reputation,
    and/or
    suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have
    a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    The
    Company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal
    proceedings in the ordinary course of business relating to its
    products, which could affect its results of operations and
    financial condition.


 


    In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to a
    variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal
    proceedings, including those relating to product liability,
    product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other
    matters that are inherently subject to many uncertainties
    regarding the possibility of a loss to the Company. Such matters
    could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of
    operations and financial condition if the Company is unable to
    successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its





    
    13



Table of Contents





    insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments
    against the Company or settlements relating to these matters.
    Although the Company has product liability insurance, the
    policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the
    Company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible
    liabilities. Further, the Company may not be able to maintain
    insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. Moreover,
    adverse publicity arising from claims made against the Company,
    even if the claims were not successful, could adversely affect
    the Company’s reputation or the reputation and sales of its
    products.


 



    The
    Company manufactures, sources and sells many products
    internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing
    business globally.


 


    The Company’s manufacturing facilities in Mexico and Europe
    represent a significant portion of the Company’s capacity
    for ceramic tile and laminate flooring, respectively, and the
    Company’s European operations represent a significant
    source of the Company’s revenues and profits. The business,
    regulatory and political environments in these countries differ
    from those in the U.S. In addition, the Company
    increasingly sells products, operates plants and invests in
    companies in other parts of the world. The Company’s
    international sales, operations and investments are subject to
    risks and uncertainties, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in foreign country regulatory requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing business practices associated with foreign operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    various import/export restrictions and the availability of
    required import/export licenses;




 



     
        • 

    
    imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers;




 



     
        • 

    
    political, legal and economic instability;




 



     
        • 

    
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in foreign country tax rules, regulations and other
    requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and
    judicial interpretations in tax laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    inflation;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing labor laws and changes in those laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and
    exported products;




 



     
        • 

    
    government price controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts
    receivable; and




 



     
        • 

    
    tax inefficiencies and currency exchange controls that may
    adversely impact its ability to repatriate cash from
    non-U.S. subsidiaries.





 


    The Company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in
    developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter
    the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the
    Company does business and therefore that the foregoing factors
    will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    operations or upon its financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    If the
    Company is unable to protect its intellectual property rights,
    particularly with respect to the Company’s patented
    laminate flooring technology and its registered trademarks, the
    Company’s business and prospects could be
    harmed.


 


    The future success and competitive position of certain of the
    Company’s businesses, particularly the Company’s
    laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the
    Company’s ability to obtain and maintain proprietary
    technology used in the Company’s principal product
    families. The Company relies, in part, on the patent, trade
    secret and trademark laws of the U.S. and countries in
    Europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the
    Company’s employees, to protect that technology.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    The Company has obtained a number of patents relating to the
    Company’s products and associated methods and has filed
    applications for additional patents, including the UNICLIC
    ®

    family of patents, which protects Unilin’s interlocking
    laminate flooring panel technology. The Company cannot assure
    investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide
    the Company with competitive advantages, that third parties will
    not challenge these patents, or that the Company’s pending
    patent applications will be approved. In addition, patent
    filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date
    of the Company’s filings, could render the Company’s
    intellectual property less valuable.


 


    Furthermore, despite the Company’s efforts, the Company may
    be unable to prevent competitors
    and/or third
    parties from using the Company’s technology without the
    Company’s authorization, independently developing
    technology that is similar to that of the Company or designing
    around the Company’s patents. The use of the Company’s
    technology or similar technology by others could reduce or
    eliminate any competitive advantage the Company has developed,
    cause the Company to lose sales or otherwise harm the
    Company’s business. In addition, if the Company does not
    obtain sufficient protection for the Company’s intellectual
    property, the Company’s competitiveness in the markets it
    serves could be significantly impaired, which would limit the
    Company’s growth and future revenue.


 


    The Company has obtained and applied for numerous U.S. and
    Foreign Service marks and trademark registrations and will
    continue to evaluate the registration of additional service
    marks and trademarks, as appropriate. The Company cannot
    guarantee that any of the Company’s pending or future
    applications will be approved by the applicable governmental
    authorities. Moreover, even if such applications are approved,
    third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the
    registrations. A failure to obtain trademark registrations in
    the U.S. and in other countries could limit the
    Company’s ability to protect the Company’s trademarks
    and impede the Company’s marketing efforts in those
    jurisdictions.


 


    The Company generally requires third parties with access to the
    Company’s trade secrets to agree to keep such information
    confidential. While such measures are intended to protect the
    Company’s trade secrets, there can be no assurance that
    these agreements will not be breached, that the Company will
    have adequate remedies for any breach or that the Company’s
    confidential and proprietary information and technology will not
    be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third
    parties. In any of these circumstances, the Company’s
    competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would
    limit the Company’s growth and future revenue.


 



    Companies
    may claim that the Company infringed their intellectual property
    or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant
    expenses or prevent it from selling the Company’s
    products.


 


    In the past, companies have claimed that certain technologies
    incorporated in the Company’s products infringe their
    patent rights. There can be no assurance that the Company will
    not receive notices in the future from parties asserting that
    the Company’s products infringe, or may infringe, those
    parties’ intellectual property rights. The Company cannot
    be certain that the Company’s products do not and will not
    infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of
    others. Historically, patent applications in the U.S. and
    some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until
    the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until
    18 months following submission), and the Company may not be
    aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the
    Company’s products or processes. If patents are later
    issued on these applications, the Company may be liable for
    infringement.


 


    Furthermore, the Company may initiate claims or litigation
    against parties for infringement of the Company’s
    proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity,
    noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights
    of others. Likewise, the Company may have similar claims brought
    against it by competitors. Litigation, either as plaintiff or
    defendant, could result in significant expense to the Company
    and divert the efforts of the Company’s technical and
    management personnel from operations, whether or not such
    litigation is resolved in the Company’s favor. In the event
    of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the Company might
    be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive
    damages and attorney’s fees), discontinue the use and sale
    of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop
    non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing
    technology. There can be no assurance that licenses to disputed
    technology or





    
    15



Table of Contents





    intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable
    commercial terms, if at all. In the event of a successful claim
    against the Company along with failure to develop or license a
    substitute technology, the Company’s business, financial
    condition and results of operations would be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    The
    Company is subject to changing regulation of corporate
    governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs
    and the risk of noncompliance.


 


    The Company’s stock is publicly traded. As a result, the
    Company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and
    state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged
    with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies
    whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including
    the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities
    and Exchange Commission and New York Stock Exchange, frequently
    issue new requirements and regulations. The Company’s
    efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have
    resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased
    general and administrative costs and diversion of
    management’s time and attention from revenue generating
    activities to compliance activities.


 



    Declines
    in the Company’s business conditions may result in an
    impairment of the Company’s tangible and intangible assets
    which could result in a material non-cash charge.


 


    A decrease in the Company’s market capitalization,
    including a short-term decline in stock price, or a negative
    long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of
    its tangible and intangible assets which results when the
    carrying value of the Company’s assets exceed their fair
    value. In 2008, the Company’s goodwill and other intangible
    assets suffered an impairment and additional impairment charges
    could occur in future periods.


 



    The
    long-term performance of the Company’s business relies on
    its ability to attract, develop and retain talented
    management.


 


    To be successful, the Company must attract, develop and retain
    highly qualified and talented personnel in management, sales,
    marketing, product design and innovation and operations, and as
    it considers entering new international markets, skilled
    personnel familiar with those markets. The Company competes with
    multinational firms for these employees and invests significant
    resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining
    them. The failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key
    employees could negatively affect the Company’s competitive
    position and its operating results.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Information


 


    Certain of the statements in this
    Form 10-K,
    particularly those anticipating future performance, business
    prospects, growth and operating strategies, proposed
    acquisitions, and similar matters, and those that include the
    words “believes,” “anticipates,”
    “forecast,” “estimates” or similar
    expressions constitute “forward-looking statements”
    within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
    1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. For those statements, Mohawk
    claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking
    statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform
    Act of 1995. There can be no assurance that the forward-looking
    statements will be accurate because they are based on many
    assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. The
    following important factors could cause future results to
    differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition;
    raw material prices; energy costs and supply; timing and level
    of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price
    increases for the Company’s products; impairment charges;
    integration of acquisitions; introduction of new products;
    rationalization of operations; claims; litigation; and other
    risks identified in Mohawk’s SEC reports and public
    announcements.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B