Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results, which could cause the trading price of our securities to decline.Risks Relating to Our BusinessOur success depends on sustaining the strength of our brands, particularly our Enfa family of brands.Our Enfa family of brands accounts for a significant portion of our net sales.  If we are unable to maintain the strength of our Enfa and other brands across our global markets, consumers may choose not to buy our products.  These circumstances could lead to a decrease in sales and profitability.We may experience liabilities or negative effects on our reputation as a result of real or perceived quality issues, including product recalls, injuries or other claims.We may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate, or are alleged to violate, applicable laws or regulations or in the event our products cause, or are alleged to cause, injury, illness or death.  Powder milk products are not sterile.  A risk of contamination or deterioration exists at each stage of the production cycle, including the purchase and delivery of raw food materials, the processing and packaging of food products and upon handling and use by health care professionals, hospital personnel and consumers.  In the event that our products are found, or are alleged, to have suffered contamination or deterioration, whether or not such products were under our control, our brand reputation and business could be materially adversely affected.  Furthermore, whether real or perceived, contamination or spoilage, product mislabeling or product tampering could result in product recalls.  To date, no such recall has been material to our global business.  However, a future product recall could be material and have a negative impact on our sales and profitability.Whether real or perceived, reports of inadequate quality control (with respect to either our products or those of other manufacturers in our segment) could adversely impact our business by contributing to a perceived safety risk throughout the industry.  The risk of reputational harm is magnified through rapid, electronic dissemination of information through news reports, social media or otherwise.  Federal, state and local governments and municipalities could also propose or pass legislation banning the use of such products.We are subject to extensive governmental regulations, and it can be costly to comply with these regulations. Changes in governmental regulations or other policies could harm our business. Our activities are subject to extensive regulation with respect to product manufacturing, the environment, employee health and safety, hygiene, quality control, advertising, marketing to health care professional and providers, privacy and tax laws. It can be costly to comply with these regulations.  A failure to comply with such laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties and other remedies.  In addition, changes in laws or regulations could further restrict our actions and significantly increase our cost of doing business, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected.  For example, government regulations impacting how and where we manufacture or source product (e.g. China’s food safety laws and related regulations) may cause unfavorable cost pressure, a significant change in our geographic earnings mix and an adverse effect on the related global tax liability.  Barriers or sanctions imposed by countries or international organizations limiting international trade may limit our cross-border activities and sales.  Governmental pricing actions may limit our ability to increase, or force us to reduce, prices in various jurisdictions throughout the world.  Moreover, regulations, public policy or decisions that restrict marketing, promotion, availability and sale of our products, continued access to health care professionals, product content (including the regulations related to genetically modified organisms), as well as the manufacture and labeling of our products, could have a material adverse impact on our business.  Certain advocates and governmental and non-governmental organizations have advocated against the marketing and sale of some pediatric nutrition products.  Such effort could result in increased governmental restrictions on our activities.We operate in an intensely competitive business.The infant and children’s milk formula category is intensely competitive.  Our primary competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources.  In most product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label and store brand products that are generally sold at lower prices.  We compete based on the following factors:  brand recognition and loyalty; product quality; effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences; product innovation; price; and distribution and availability of products.  Competitive pressures may lead us to reduce product prices.  Such pressures 6may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity, wage and other cost increases.  We may also need to increase spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to maintain or increase market share. The success of these initiatives is subject to risk, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts, market share loss and higher inventory levels.  If we are unable to compete effectively, our financial condition and operating results may suffer.Our success depends upon our ability to predict, identify, interpret and react to changes in consumer preferences.Our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes, dietary habits and nutritional needs of our broad spectrum of global consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences (including preferences for premium products).  Our success also depends on our ability to define the benefits of our products and to effectively communicate these benefits to our consumers. Moreover, our success depends on our ability to effectively identify and accommodate our consumers’ preferred sales channels.  If we do not succeed in offering innovative or premium products that consumers want to buy, if we are unable to effectively communicate our product benefits or if we are unable to sell through customers’ preferred channels, our sales and profitability or market share may deteriorate.Economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products.The willingness of consumers to purchase premium brand pediatric nutrition products depends in part on local economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers may shift their purchases from our higher-priced premium products to lower-priced products or delay having children.  During economic downturns, a decrease in the number of working mothers could constrict our customer base, further reducing our sales.  Our growth depends on certain demographic trends as well as scientific opinion regarding our products.Our growth plan relies on favorable demographic trends in various markets, including rising incomes in emerging markets, increasing number of working mothers, increasing consumer global awareness of the importance of pediatric nutrition and birth rates. If these demographic trends change in an adverse way, our business could be materially impacted. In addition, an adverse change in scientific opinion regarding our products, such as the health benefits of DHA, could materially adversely affect our business.Resources devoted to research and development may not yield new products that achieve commercial success.Our ability to develop new pediatric nutrition products depends on, among other factors, our ability to understand the composition and variation of breast milk and our ability to translate these insights into commercially viable new products.  This requires significant investment in research and development and testing of new ingredients, formulas and new production processes.  The research and development process is expensive, prolonged and entails considerable uncertainty.  Products may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected time frame, or at all.  Products also may fail to achieve commercial viability.  Development of a new product, from discovery through testing and registration to initial product launch, typically takes between five and seven years, but may require an even longer timeline. Each of these periods varies considerably from product to product and country to country. Because of the complexities, uncertainties and cost associated with research and development, products that we are currently developing may not complete the development process or obtain the regulatory approvals required for us to market such products successfully. In addition, new regulations or changes to existing regulations may have a negative effect on innovations in our pipeline, especially late-stage pipeline products.Commodity price increases raise our operating costs and may reduce our profitability.Our business is particularly vulnerable to commodity price increases in the cost of raw materials used to make our products (e.g. skim milk powder, whole milk powder, lactose and whey protein concentrate), the cost of inputs used to manufacture and ship our products (such as crude oil and energy) and the amount we pay to produce or purchase packaging for our products.  Commodity price volatility is caused by conditions such as fluctuating commodities markets, currency fluctuations, availability of supply, weather, consumer demand and changes in governmental agricultural programs.  Dairy costs are the largest component of our cost of goods sold.  Increases in commodity costs generally impact our gross margins if we are unable to offset such increases by raising prices, changing our product mix or other efforts.  Price increases, in turn, could weaken demand for our product.  We monitor our exposure to commodity prices as part of our risk management program and attempt to mitigate risk with commodity hedging activities; however, continued commodity price volatility and ineffective commodity risk management could lead to lower profitability.Our significant international operations are subject to extensive risk.For the year ended December 31, 2014, 76% of our net sales were generated outside of the United States.  Our significant international operations are subject to a number of risks related to doing business internationally, any of which could materially harm our business.  These risks include:•multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict our ability to manufacture, market or sell our products;7•compliance with anti-corruption regulations (as further described below);•trade protection measures, exchange controls and currency exchange rates;•price controls;•restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, including potentially negative tax consequences;•programs intended to discourage the use of our products;•differing local product preferences and product requirements;•political and economic instability;•changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; and•diminished protection of intellectual property.Our current and historical effective tax rate may not be indicative of future rates.In light of our global earnings mix, our current and historical effective tax rate may not be indicative of future rates due to changes in domestic and international tax laws, changes in our global earnings mix, the need to repatriate future earnings to the United States to satisfy U.S. cash needs, and changes to our tax positions by taxing authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we operate.  For example, at the present time, the United States generally taxes a company’s foreign earnings upon the repatriation of such earnings, and these tax rules may change in the foreseeable future.  Moreover, given the organization of our business and the locations of our manufacturing operations, cross border transactions among our affiliates are a significant part of the manner in which we operate.  Although we believe that we transact intercompany business in accordance with arms-length principles, taxing authorities may not view such transactions as satisfying such arms-length principles and our tax positions may not be upheld by taxing authorities upon audit of our results. Our operations and financial results face significant foreign currency exchange exposure.Our financial performance measured on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  These fluctuations could cause material variations in our results of operations, particularly as the U.S. dollar strengthens.  While we attempt to mitigate some of this risk with hedging and other activities, our business will nevertheless remain subject to substantial foreign exchange risk from foreign currency impacts on our financial statements.  Currency rates in some markets, such as Venezuela and Argentina, could impact our results due to high exchange rate volatility, potentially or actually requiring us to apply inflationary accounting.  For example, we apply highly inflationary accounting to our business in Venezuela, the impact of which on our consolidated financial statements is dependent upon movements in the exchange rate, including devaluations, between the Bolivares Fuertes and the U.S. dollar.  Operating in high inflationary environments could subject us to additional government actions, devaluations and other business restrictions (see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Venezuela Risk”).Moreover, foreign governments may restrict our ability to exchange local currencies for more marketable currencies and may limit our ability to pay dividends, to pay non-local currency accounts payable or to obtain currencies (other than the local currency) which may be more desirable to hold. Foreign governments may simultaneously restrict our ability to increase prices in inflationary environments where local currencies are under significant pressure. Without the ability to increase prices to offset the impact of local currency devaluation, our ability to manage foreign exchange risk may be further limited.Our global operations are subject to political and economic risks of developing countries, and special risks associated with doing business in corrupt environments.We operate our business and market our products internationally in more than 50 countries.  We are focusing on increasing our sales and operations in various regions throughout the world, which are less developed, have less stability in legal systems and financial markets, and are potentially more corrupt business environments than the United States, and therefore present greater political, economic and operational risks.  We have in place policies, procedures and certain ongoing training of employees with regard to business ethics and many key legal requirements, such as applicable anti-corruption laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which make it illegal for us to give anything of value to foreign officials in order to obtain or retain any business or other advantages; however, there can be no assurance that our employees will adhere to our standards of business conduct and ethics or any other of our policies, applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, or other legal requirements. If we fail to enforce our policies and procedures properly, detect violations in a timely manner or maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. If we believe or have reason to believe that our employees have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, or other laws or regulations, we investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances. If violations are suspected or found, we could face civil and criminal penalties, and significant costs for investigations, litigation, fees, settlements and judgments, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for further information regarding the Company’s ongoing investigation. In addition, some of our competitors may not be subject to the FCPA or other anticorruption laws.8Our China operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our revenue and profit is derived from operations in China.  Consequently, our overall financial results are dependent on this market, and our business is exposed to risks there. These risks include changes in economic conditions (including wage and cost inflation, currency exchange rates, consumer spending and employment levels), tax rates, laws, changes in the regulatory environment, increased competition and potential noncompliance with local laws and regulations.  Risks also include changing consumer product preferences and preferred sales channels, as well as our ability to accommodate such changing preferences.  Certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government, and Chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China.  Any significant or prolonged deterioration in China’s relations with the United States and other countries could adversely affect our China business.  There are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in China.  There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such risks and uncertainties on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.The consolidation of our retail customers and their reduction of inventory levels may put pressures on our profitability. Our retail customers, such as mass merchandisers, club stores, baby stores, grocery stores, drug stores and convenience stores, may further consolidate, resulting in fewer customers for our business.  Such consolidation produces large retail customers with increased buying power that are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases and demanding lower pricing, promotional programs and specifically tailored products. These large customers may also reallocate shelf space to favor their private label or store brand products.  Meeting demands from these customers may adversely affect our profitability.Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global manufacturing and sourcing activities.We manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale.  As such, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, such as:•raw material, product quality or safety issues, and related shortages or recalls by either us or our third-party suppliers;•supply chain disruptions due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, strikes, various contagious diseases, changes in government regulations or other factors over which we have no control;•loss or impairment of key global manufacturing sites or a failure to maintain compliant manufacturing practices at either our sites or third-party manufacturing sites;•inability to successfully expand our production and manufacturing capacity due to regulatory or other constraints;•limits on manufacturing capabilities due to physical capacity limitations, regulatory requirements, or export / import restrictions associated with the transport of raw goods or material;•significant difficulties with the highly exacting and complex processes required to manufacture our products, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and the related need to discard product batches; and•strikes, labor disputes, industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues.While we have business continuity plans in place for certain manufacturing sites and the supply of raw materials, significant disruption in global manufacturing and sourcing activities for any of the above reasons could interrupt our business and lead to increased costs, lost sales, reputational damage and expense.  If not remedied, these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Moreover, such significant disruptions may limit our ability to introduce and distribute products, including our existing pipeline of innovations and product improvements, or otherwise take advantage of opportunities in new and existing markets.We rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services in connection with the manufacturing and distribution of our products.Unaffiliated third-party suppliers provide us with materials necessary for commercial production of our products, including certain key raw materials and primary packaging materials (such as cans).  We may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely manner, or at all, if any of our third-party suppliers should cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply us or if the supply agreements are suspended, terminated or otherwise expire without renewal, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business.  We also use third-party distributors in many countries throughout the world, including in emerging markets.  If our third-party distributors fail to deliver on their commitments in a timely manner or at all, whether due to financial instability, non-compliance with applicable regulations, disruptions in local infrastructure or otherwise, we could experience disruptions that could lead to a loss of sales or claims against the Company.  Moreover, if our distribution agreements are suspended, terminated or otherwise expire without renewal, our sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected.Changes in WIC, or our participation in it, could materially adversely affect our business.Participation in WIC involves a competitive bidding process and is an important part of our U.S. business based on the volume of infant formula sold under the program.  As of December 31, 2014, we held the contracts that supply approximately 45% of WIC births in the United 9States.  As a result, our business strategy includes bidding for new WIC contracts and maintaining current WIC relationships.  Our failure to win bids for new contracts pursuant to the WIC program or our inability to maintain current WIC relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, any changes to how the WIC program is administered and any changes to the eligibility requirements and/or overall participation in the WIC program could also have a material adverse effect on our business.We are increasingly dependent on information technology.  Increased IT security threats could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions, services and data integrity.We rely on our information technology, administrative and outsourcing systems (including cloud or partner systems and third-party providers) to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment and other business processes.  We also rely on such systems to protect employee and, at times, customer data, including personally identifiable information, which we may collect and retain.  These systems may be susceptible to damage or interruption due to system failures, computer viruses, security breaches, telecommunication failures, user error, catastrophic events or other factors.  If our information technology, administrative and outsourcing systems suffer severe damage or interruption or intrusion, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issue in a timely manner, our business could suffer as we could experience business disruption, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, a loss of customer or employee data and a loss of sales or customers.  Moreover, increasing global security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data.  We invest in security technology to protect our data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack.  There can be no assurance, however, that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches that could adversely affect our business.  Such threats, if they materialize, could compromise confidential information or lead to the improper use of our systems and networks, the manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions.  If we are unable to prevent security breaches or disclosure of confidential information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage.Our sales and marketing practices may be challenged by consumers and competitors, which could harm our business.We participate in a variety of marketing activities, where permitted, including digital, print and television advertising, direct mail, internet and promotional programs. We work with external agencies to create strong marketing campaigns for consumers, health care professionals and retail sales organizations. Although our marketing is evidence-based and emphasizes our superior nutritional science, consumers and competitors may challenge, and have challenged, certain of our practices by claiming, among other things, false and misleading advertising.  A significant claim or judgment against us could result in monetary damages, limit our ability to maintain current sales and marketing practices and negatively impact our profitability.  Even if such claim is unsuccessful or unwarranted, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions could negatively impact our business.Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands.Given the importance of brand recognition to our business, we have invested considerable effort in trademark protection for our brands, including the Enfa family of brands.  In addition, we rely on a combination of security measures, confidentiality policies, contractual arrangements and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary formulas and other valuable trade secrets. We also rely on patent, copyright and trademark laws to further protect our intellectual property rights.  Uncertainties inherent in enforcing our intellectual property rights make the outcome and associated costs difficult to predict.  A failure to obtain or adequately protect intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other change that serves to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business.  In addition, some of the countries in which we operate offer less protection for these rights, and may subject these rights to higher risks than is the case in Europe or North America.  There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us or that any infringement claim will not result in costly litigation, substantial damages, the need to refrain from selling our products or the need to obtain a license to use third-party intellectual property (which license we may be unable to obtain on favorable terms, or at all).  Even if we prevail against such claims, intellectual property litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations.Labor disputes may cause work stoppages, strikes and disruptions.Our manufacturing workforces in Zeeland, Michigan (U.S.); Evansville, Indiana (U.S.); Guangzhou, China; Chonburi, Thailand and Singapore are not unionized. The manufacturing workforces in Delicias, Mexico, and São Bernardo do Campo, Brazil, are unionized and covered by collective bargaining agreements that are negotiated annually.  The manufacturing workforce and non-supervisory sales force in Makati, Philippines, are unionized and covered by a three-year collective bargaining agreement, which was renewed effective January 2014. In addition, European Works Councils represent the manufacturing workforce in Nijmegen, the Netherlands, and the commercial organizations in France and Spain.  Any labor disputes, including work stoppages, strikes and disruptions, could have a material adverse impact on our business.10We derive a significant percentage of our sales from two key customers, the loss of which could negatively impact our business.Our products are sold principally to distributors and retail customers, both nationally and internationally.  Sales to two customers, DKSH International Ltd. (including sales to its regional affiliates) and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (including sales to Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 16% and 11%, respectively, of our gross sales for the year ended December 31, 2014. If either of these customers ceases doing business with us or if we encounter any difficulties in our relationship with either of them, our business could be materially adversely affected.Failure to comply with our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness.As of December 31, 2014, we had total debt of $1.5 billion. There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in our debt instruments. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity and our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing may be adversely affected.  Further, we could incur substantial cost if we need to repatriate earnings to the United States in order to repay such debt.We may not successfully identify or complete acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives.From time to time, we evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives.  We may consider divesting businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or growth / profitability targets.  We may also consider expanding our product portfolio by adding new product categories.  These activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risk including diversion of management’s attention from our existing business, business integration challenges, effective control implementation across a diverse employee population, the failure to achieve anticipated synergies, unanticipated liabilities and potential disputes.  These activities may also include inherent risks associated with entering a geographic area which has less political, social or economic stability, less developed infrastructure and legal systems and in which we have no or limited prior operating experience.  In addition, we may not be able to complete desirable transactions or initiatives for various financial, regulatory, technological or other reasons.  Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.Risks Related to Our Relationship with Our Former ParentIf our split-off from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (“BMS”) fails to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss, we may in certain circumstances be required to indemnify BMS for any resulting taxes and related expenses.In connection with our split-off from BMS on December 23, 2009, BMS and its counsel have relied on certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters from us, as well as certain covenants by us regarding the future conduct of our business and other matters, the incorrectness or violation of which could affect the qualification for non-recognition of gain and loss of our split-off from BMS. As a result, we agreed, generally, to indemnify BMS for taxes and certain related expenses resulting from the failure of our split-off from BMS to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss to the extent attributable to (i) the failure of any of our representations to be true or the breach by us of any of our covenants, (ii) the application of Section 355(e) or Section 355(f) of the Internal Revenue Code to any acquisition of our stock or assets or any of our affiliates or (iii) certain other acts or omissions by us or our affiliates. To the extent we become obligated to make an indemnification payment to BMS through the relevant audit years, we believe that such payment could be material and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Item 1B