Item 1A.  Risk Factors

The
following are certain risk factors that could affect the Registrant’s business,
financial condition and results of operations. These risk factors should be
considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements
contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause
the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in
forward-looking statements. Before you buy the Registrant’s common stock, you
should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the
risks described below. The risks that are highlighted 


 5 





here are not the only ones that
the Registrant faces.  If any of the
risks actually occur, the Registrant’s business, financial condition or results
of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of
the Registrant’s securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your
investment.

Price Fluctuations In The Raw
Material Markets May Negatively Impact Us.

The
Registrant purchases certain raw materials which are subject to price volatility
caused by weather, market conditions, growing and harvesting conditions,
governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. The most significant
raw materials are cheese,
pepper, capsicums, garlic, onion and vanilla.
While future movements of raw
material costs are uncertain, the Registrant responds to this volatility in a
number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw
material for future delivery and customer price adjustments. The Registrant has
not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk.  Any actions the Registrant may take in
response to price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate its
exposure to a decline in operating results due to changes in raw material
prices. Therefore, the Registrant cannot assure you that future raw material
price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial
condition or operating results.

Fluctuations In The Foreign
Currency Markets May Negatively Impact Us.

The
Registrant is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows primarily
related to raw material purchases. The Registrant is also exposed to
fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and
unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these
investments. Additionally, the Registrant is exposed to volatility in the
translation of foreign currency earnings to U.S. dollars. Primary exposures
include the U.S. dollar versus the functional currencies of our major markets
(Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Mexican peso
and Chinese renminbi). On occasion, the Registrant may enter into forward and
option contracts to manage these foreign currency risks. However, these
contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate the Registrant’s exposure to a
decline in operating results due to foreign currency translation. Therefore,
the Registrant cannot assure you that future exchange rate fluctuations will
not have a negative impact on its business, financial position or operating
results.

Increases In Interest Rates May
Negatively Impact Us.

The
Registrant had total outstanding short-term borrowings of approximately $80.8
million at an average interest rate of approximately 5.5% on November 30, 2006.
The Registrant’s policy is to manage our interest costs using a mix of fixed
and variable rate debt. The Registrant also uses interest rate swaps to achieve
a desired proportion of fixed and variable rate debt. The Registrant utilizes
derivative financial instruments to enhance its ability to manage risk,
including interest rate exposures that exist as part of its ongoing business
operations. The Registrant does not enter into contracts for trading purposes,
nor is it a party to any leveraged derivative instrument. The Registrant’s use
of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication
with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. However, its
use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate its exposure to
a decline in operating results due to changes in interest rates. Therefore, the
Registrant cannot assure you that future interest rate increases will not have
a material negative impact on its business, financial position or operating
results.

Item 1B