Item 1A.  Risk Factors

 

The following are certain risk factors that could affect
the Registrant’s business, financial results and results of operations. These
risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the
forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ
materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you buy the
Registrant’s common stock, you should know that making such an investment
involves some risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have
highlighted here are not the only ones that the Registrant faces.  If any of the risks actually occur, the
Registrant’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be
negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of the Registrant’s stock
could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.

 

4












 

Fluctuations In The Foreign Currency Markets May Negatively Impact
Us.

 

The Registrant is exposed to fluctuations in foreign
currency cash flows primarily related to raw material purchases. The Registrant
is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in
subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to
repatriation of these investments. Additionally, the Registrant is exposed to
volatility in the translation of foreign currency earnings to U.S. dollars.
Primary exposures include the U.S. dollar versus the functional currencies of
our major markets (Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian
dollar, Mexican peso, Chinese renminbi and Japanese yen). On occasion, the
Registrant may enter into forward and option contracts to manage these foreign
currency risks. However, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate
the Registrant’s exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign
currency translation. Therefore, the Registrant cannot assure you that future
exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on its business,
financial position or operating results.

 

Increases In Interest Rates May Negatively Impact Us.

 

The Registrant has total outstanding short-term
borrowings of approximately $105.4 million at an average interest rate of
approximately 4.0% on November 30, 2005. The Registrant’s policy is to
manage our interest costs using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The
Registrant also uses interest rate swaps to achieve a desired proportion of
fixed and variable rate debt. The Registrant utilizes derivative financial
instruments to enhance its ability to manage risk, including interest rate
exposures that exist as part of its ongoing business operations. The Registrant
does not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor is it a party to any
leveraged derivative instrument. The Registrant’s use of derivative financial
instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management
and the utilization of written guidelines. However, its use of these
instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate its exposure to a decline in
operating results due to changes in interest rates. Therefore, the Registrant cannot
assure you that future interest rate increases will not have a material negative
impact on its business, financial position or operating results.

 

Price Fluctuations In The Commodity Markets May Negatively Impact
Us.

 

The Registrant purchases certain raw materials that are
subject to price volatility caused by weather and other unpredictable factors.
The most significant raw materials are cheese, packaging supplies, pepper,
capsicums, garlic and onion. While future movements of raw material costs are
uncertain, a variety of programs, including strategic raw material purchases,
purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments,
help it address this risk. Generally, the Registrant does not use derivatives
to manage the volatility related to this risk. Even if it did use such
instruments, however, their use might not effectively limit or eliminate its
exposure to a decline in operating results due to changes in commodity prices. Therefore,
the Registrant cannot assure you that future commodity price fluctuations will
not have a negative impact on its business, financial position or operating
results.

 

Item 1B