ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



     An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. You
should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in
this Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities.


     This Form 10-K and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the
Company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact,
constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. Investors are
cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on
assumptions that the Company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially
different from actual results. Investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do
not relate only to historic or current facts. The words “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,”
“anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,”
“scheduled,” and similar expressions in connection with future events or future operating or
financial performance are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any or all of the
Company’s forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K and in other publications may turn out to be
wrong.


     Statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic
trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost
estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the
risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual
performance.


     Factors that the Company currently believes could cause its actual results to differ
materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set
out below. In addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.


Our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry.



     The current market environment has hurt the economy, and we have considered the impact on our
business. Demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and residential construction
markets, could continue to fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit for
construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital
projects. State and federal budget issues may continue to hurt the
funding available for infrastructure spending.


16




Table of Contents





The lack of available credit has limited the
ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. Several of our top sales states
have stopped bidding projects in their transportation departments.


     We sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on
the strength of the construction industry. Since our business depends on construction spending,
which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic
conditions. The overall economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening
credit markets. Construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest
rates, demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state,
and local governments. If economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may
occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products, such as is occurring with the current
economic recession. Construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed
conflicts.


     While our aggregate operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the
strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our
products relative to their price. If economic conditions and construction spending decline
significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five revenue-generating states of North
Carolina, Texas, Georgia, Iowa and Florida, our profitability will decrease. We are experiencing
this situation with the current economic recession.


     Moreover, infrastructure spending in 2008 was hurt by the overall weakness in the economy,
which leads to lower tax revenues and state government budget deficits. Further, rising
construction and material prices are both constraining highway budgets. Additionally, lack of
access to the capital markets has precluded many state and local governments from issuing bonds
that would provide financing for construction projects.


     In
February 2009, President Obama signed into law an economic stimulus
plan, which will provide
billions of dollars in new funding for transportation infrastructure.
However, there will be a time delay of at least several months before
Congress can appropriate
such funds and each state can take appropriate measures to take advantage of such funding.
In addition, each state will have to approve various infrastructure projects to be funded through
the new federal stimulus plan. So while management believes the
federal stimulus plan
will increase the Company’s aggregates shipments in the latter half of 2009 and in 2010, we cannot
be assured of the full impact of the stimulus plan.


     Within the construction industry, we sell our aggregate products for use in both commercial
construction and residential construction. Commercial and residential construction levels generally
move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the
economy is weak, construction levels fall. The overall economy has been hurt by the changes in the
financial services sector, including failures of several large financial institutions, historical
merger and acquisition activity within that industry, and the resulting lack of credit
availability. The commercial construction market declined in 2008, notably from credit
availability and felt most significantly starting in September 2008. Also, continued weakness in
the residential construction market negatively affected the commercial construction market. The
residential construction market remained dismal in 2008 in connection with the housing market downtown. Further, the outlook reflects


17




Table of Contents





diminished demand, which is further exacerbated by the overall weakness in the economy and the
financial institutions crisis. Approximately 9% of our aggregates shipments in 2008 were to the
residential construction market.


     Our aggregate products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the
construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar
projects. So our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these
projects. We cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending
on these projects. For example, while the current federal highway law passed in 2005 provides
funding of $286.4 billion for highway, transit, and highway safety programs through September 30,
2009, Congress must pass an appropriations bill each year to approve spending these funds. We
cannot be assured that Congress will pass an appropriations bill each year to approve funding at
the level authorized in the federal highway law. Similarly, each state funds its infrastructure
spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes
and vehicle fees, along with voter-approved bond programs. Shortages in state tax revenues can
reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under
legislative bills. Delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. For example, we
expect delays in infrastructure spending in Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Texas will
continue in 2009, which will limit our business growth in those states until the level and timing
of spending improves.


Our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather.



     Since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, seasonal changes and other
weather-related conditions affect our business. Adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes
and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction
activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently transport
material, particularly by barge. Adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our
production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to
remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. Severe drought conditions can restrict
available water supplies, restrict production, and limit movement of barge traffic. The
construction aggregates business production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction
industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall. Because of the weather’s effect on
the construction industry’s activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary
by quarter. The second and third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter
is generally the least profitable.


Our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our
ability to mine them economically.



     Our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate
permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve
growing markets. As communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and
have imposed restrictions on mining. We try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting
sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our
mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that
transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that
allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical, but we can
give no assurances that we will be successful.




18




Table of Contents






Our aggregates business is a capital-intensive business.



     The property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. Therefore, we
require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. We believe that our cash on hand, along
with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to
give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. Our ability to
generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general
economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our
operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to
operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned
capital or operating expenditures.


Our businesses face many competitors.



     Our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we
do. Some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. Our results are affected by the
number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can
accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a
market. We also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. For example,
our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used
instead of our magnesia-based products. As another example, our aggregates business may compete
with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products.


Our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry.



     We expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. While the pace of
acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for
strategic businesses to acquire. Acquisition opportunities may increase in the short term as
large, multi-national competitors may be forced to sell assets acquired in recent transactions to
generate cash to fund debt obligations. In the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our
existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. We will continue to
make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help
our company. However, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability
to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate
acquired businesses into our existing operations. We cannot assume there will continue to be
attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully
integrate into our operations.


     We may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares
of our common stock. We may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to
complement and expand our operations. If we use our common stock in this way, the ownership
interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. We operate
our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return.


     We have acquired many companies since 1995. Some of these acquisitions were more easily
integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected,
while
others have not. We have sold underperforming and other non-strategic assets, particularly lower
margin businesses like our asphalt plants in Houston, Texas, and our road paving businesses in
Shreveport, Louisiana, and Texarkana, Arkansas.


19




Table of Contents



Short supplies and high costs of fuel and energy affect our businesses.



     Our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke
and other energy. The financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply
or high costs of these fuels and energy. While we can contract for some fuels and sources of
energy, significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the
future reduce our financial results. For example, in 2008, increases in prices of petroleum-based
products lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.65 per diluted share when compared with 2007
prices. We do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price
breaks, fuel efficiency, and consumption.


     In addition, the price of liquid asphalt is a large part of the cost of producing hot mix
asphalt products and can cause road builders and commercial contractors to delay or defer work in
anticipation of liquid asphalt cost changes. In 2008, liquid asphalt prices more than doubled over
the prior year price, with prices in excess of $800 per ton at their peak.

Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the
environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our
businesses. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities.



     Many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the
environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. We take great
pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable
laws and regulations. Despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly
environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our
competitors. We cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future.


     We are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or
enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of
some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other
costs. We could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control
facilities, which could be substantial.


     Our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the
products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and
transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. We are exposed to
hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances,
exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery.


     These risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury
or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our
productivity or profitability. For example, from time to time we investigate and remediate
environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we
have
acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in
litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties.


20




Table of Contents



     We are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. While
we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse
effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a
pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us.


Labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses.



     Labor unions represent 12.7% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 90.3% of
the hourly employees of our specialty products business. Our collective bargaining agreements for
employees of our magnesia specialties business at the Woodville, Ohio lime plant and the Manistee,
Michigan magnesia chemicals plant expire in June 2010 and August 2011, respectively.


     Disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to
strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and
earnings from the affected locations. We believe we have good relations with all of our employees,
including our unionized employees.


Delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations.



     Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our
customers, whether by truck, rail, barge, or ship. Any significant delays, disruptions, or the
non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. For
example, in 2005 and partially in 2006, we experienced rail transportation shortages in Texas and
parts of the southeastern region of the United States. In 2005 and 2006, following Hurricanes
Katrina and Rita, we experienced significant barge transportation problems along the Mississippi
River system.


     Water levels can also affect our ability to transport our products. High water levels limit
the number of barges we can transport and can require that we use additional horsepower to tow
barges. Low water levels can reduce the amount of material we can transport in each barge. In
2007, dry weather caused low water levels and resulted in reduced tonnage that could be shipped on
a barge. Consequently, the per ton cost of transporting material was higher than normal. In 2008
high water levels from severe flooding in Iowa hurt both shipments and operations.


     The availability of rail cars and barges can also affect our ability to transport our
products. Rail cars and barges can be used to transport many different types of products. If
owners sell or lease rail cars and barges for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail
cars and barges to transport our products. In 2007, barges were particularly scarce, as barges
were being retired faster than new barges were being built. In 2005, we leased 780 additional
rail cars. In 2006, we contracted to buy 50 new barges that were delivered in 2007. In 2008, we
leased additional rail cars in the Southwest.


     We have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our
aggregate products from our Bahamas and Nova Scotia operations to various coastal ports. These
contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2009 to 2017 and generally contain renewal
options. Our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping
companies could affect our ability to transport our products.


21




Table of Contents


Our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting
policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. Our estimates and
assumptions could be wrong.



     The accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and
require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those
standards. We make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our
goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our
estimated income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory.
These estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our
subjective and complex judgments. If we used different estimates and assumptions or used different
ways to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ.


     While we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong.
Accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. We urge you to read
about our critical accounting policies in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.


The adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results.



     The accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by
regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. New or revised accounting standards could
change our financial results either positively or negatively. For example, beginning in 2006, we
were required under new accounting standards to expense the fair value of stock options we award
our management and key employees as part of their compensation. This resulted in a reduction of
our earnings and made comparisons between financial periods more difficult. We urge you to read
about our accounting policies and changes in our accounting policies in Note A of our 2008
financial statements.

We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and
retain such personnel could affect our business.



     Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel
and executive officers. Our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified
personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful
in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business.


Disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business.



     The current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how
it might affect our business. Demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and
residential construction markets, could continue to decline if companies and consumers are unable
to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or
cancellations
to capital projects. State and federal budget issues may continue to negatively affect the
funding available for infrastructure spending without economic stimulus at the federal level.


22




Table of Contents



     A recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all
of our accounts receivable with our customers. We are protected in part, however, by payment bonds
posted by many of our customers. Nevertheless, we have experienced a delay in payment from some of
our customers during this economic downturn. Historically our bad debt write-offs have not been
significant to our operating results, and we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is
adequate.


     During this economic downturn we have been forced to shut down some of our facilities on a
temporary basis. If demand does not improve, such shutdowns could become longer-term, impairing
the value of some of the assets at those locations. The timing of increased demand will determine
when these locations will be reopened. During the shut-down time, the plant and equipment will
continue to be depreciated. If practicable, we will transfer the mobile equipment and use it
elsewhere. Because we continue to have long-term access to the aggregate reserves, these sites are
not considered impaired during temporary shutdowns.


     The current credit environment has limited our ability to issue borrowings under our
commercial paper program. Additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if
available, may not be at economically favorable terms. Interest rates on new issuances of
long-term public debt in the market have recently increased, reflecting higher credit and risk
premiums. Further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our credit ratings. A
reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our ability to obtain
additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. In 2008 we issued $300
million of our Senior Notes and refinanced our $200 million Notes due December 2008. There is no
guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates,
which could negatively affect our business.


     We may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if
they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. Any large strategic acquisition would require
that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities in order to maintain our investment
grade credit rating. We are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the
interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to
the extent it is available to us. In 2008, Moody’s downgraded our long-term debt rating to Baa3
from Baa1 and downgraded our commercial paper rating to P-3 from P-2 with a stable outlook. In
2008, Standard & Poor’s reaffirmed our senior unsecured debt rating of BBB+ and downgraded the
outlook to negative, but left our commercial paper rating of A-2 unchanged. While management
believes our credit ratings will remain at an investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these
ratings will remain at those levels. While management believes the Company will continue to have
credit available to it adequate to meet its needs, there can be no assurance of that.

Our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably
priced fuels.



     Our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel
industry. While we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still
dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. The steel industry
experienced a severe downturn in the second half of 2008, which is expected to continue in 2009.
The specialty products business also
requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial results are
negatively affected by high fuel prices or shortages.


23




Table of Contents



Our structural composites product line has not generated any profits since its inception.



     Our structural composites product line faces many challenges before it becomes break-even or
generates a profit. We cannot ensure the future profitability of this product line.

Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and North Carolina law may
inhibit a change in control that you may favor.



Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and North Carolina law contain
provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not approved by our board of
directors. This could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their
shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best
interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to
negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the
transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition include the
following:






     
     
    
n     a
classified board of directors;



     

     
     
    
n    the ability
of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue,
preferred stock without shareholder approval;



     

     
     
    
n    the
requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause;



     

     
     
    
n    the
inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and



     

     
     
    
n    super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination
transactions with certain five percent shareholders.




In addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance of
common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are not
approved by the board of directors.



Changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations.



A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including:







     
     
    
n   
The jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;



     

     
     
    n   
The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;



     

     
     
    n   
Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;




24




Table of Contents








     
     
    n 
   Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;



     

     
     
    n   
Changes in available tax credits;



     

     
     
    n   
Changes in share-based compensation; and



     

     
     
    n   
Changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices.




Any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could reduce net earnings for future
periods.
 



*  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *



     Investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors.
Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all
potential risks or uncertainties. Other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the
Company and may be material to the Company. The Company has listed all known material risks it
considers relevant in evaluating the Company and its operations. The forward-looking statements in
this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by Sections 27A and
21E. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management’s current
expectations, and the Company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether
as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.


     For a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary
materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the Company’s Securities
and Exchange Commission filings, including, but not limited to, the discussion under the heading
“Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements” under Item 1A of this Form 10-K, the discussion of
“Competition” under Item 1 on Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and the 2008 Annual Report, and
“Note A: Accounting Policies” and “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to
Financial Statements” of the 2008 Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K and
the 2008 Annual Report.





ITEM 1B