ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS AND FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS



     An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. You
should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in
this Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities.


     This Form 10-K and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the
Company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact,
constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. Investors are
cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on
assumptions that the Company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially
different from actual results. Investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do
not relate only to historic or current facts. The words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,”
“expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “scheduled,” and similar expressions
in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are intended to
identify forward-looking statements. Any or all of the Company’s forward-looking statements in
this Form 10-K and in other publications may turn out to be wrong.


     Statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic
trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost
estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the
risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual
performance.


     Factors that the Company currently believes could cause its actual results to differ
materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set
out below. In addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2005 Annual Report
to Shareholders.


Our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry.



     We sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on
the strength of the construction industry. Since our business depends on construction spending,
which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic
conditions. Construction spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates,
demographic and population shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and
local governments. If economic conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may
occur and affect the demand for our aggregate products. Construction spending can also be
disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts.


     While our aggregate operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the
strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our
products relative to their price. If economic conditions and construction spending decline
significantly in one or more areas, particularly in our top five revenue-generating states of
Texas, North Carolina, Georgia, Iowa and Florida, our profitability will decrease.


18




Table of Contents



Our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather.



     The construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors. Seasonal changes and other
weather conditions affect our business. Adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and
tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity
and the demand for our products. Adverse weather conditions also increase our costs and reduce our
production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, time required to
remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. The construction aggregates business
production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur
in the spring, summer and fall. Because of the weather’s effect on the construction industry’s
activity, the aggregates business production and shipment levels vary by quarter. The second and
third quarters are generally the most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least
profitable.


Our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate products and our ability to mine
them economically.



     Our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate
permits, near growing markets. As communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying
locations and have imposed restrictions on mining. We try to meet this challenge by identifying
and permitting sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to
increase our mineral reserves, and developing a distribution network that transports aggregates
products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that allows us to transport
our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical.


Our aggregates business is a capital-intensive business.



     It is expensive to acquire property and machinery and produce our products. Therefore, we
must have access to large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. We believe we have adequate
cash to run our businesses. Because the business is capital intensive, a significant portion of
our operating costs is fixed in nature. Therefore, our financial results are sensitive to product
volume changes.


Our businesses face many competitors.



     Our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we
do. Some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. Our results are affected by the
number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can
accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a
market. We also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. For example,
our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used
instead of our magnesia-based products.


Our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry.



     We expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. While the pace of
acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for
strategic businesses to acquire. In the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our existing
locations,


19




Table of Contents


expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. We will continue to make selective
acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help our company.
However, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and
buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate acquired
businesses into our existing operations. We cannot assume there will continue to be attractive
acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our
operations.



     We may need to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares of
our common stock. We may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to
complement and expand our operations. If we use our common stock in this way, the ownership
interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock may fall. We operate our
businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return.


     We acquired 62 companies from 1995 through 2002. Some of these acquisitions were more easily
integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected,
while others have not. We have sold underperforming and other non-strategic assets, particularly
lower margin businesses like our asphalt plants in Houston and our road paving business in
Shreveport, Louisiana, and Texarkana, Arkansas.


Short supplies and high costs of fuel and energy affect our businesses.



     Our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke
and other energy. The financial results of these businesses have been affected at times by the
short supply or high costs of these fuels and energy. While we can contract for some fuels and
energy, significant increases in costs or fluctuations in supplies of these items have and may in
the future reduce our financial results.


Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the
environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our
businesses. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities.



     Many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the
environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. We take great
pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable
laws and regulations. Despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly
environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our
competitors. We cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future.


     We are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or
enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of
some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other
costs. We could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control
facilities, which could be substantial.


     Our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the
products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and
transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. We are exposed to


20




Table of Contents


hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances,
exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery.



     These risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury
or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our
productivity or profitability. For example, from time to time we investigate and remediate
environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we
have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in
litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties.


     We are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. While
we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse
effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a
pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us.


Labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses.



     Labor unions represent 14.6% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 98.2% of
the hourly employees of our specialty products business. Our collective bargaining agreements for
employees of our magnesia specialties business at the Woodville, Ohio lime plant and the Manistee,
Michigan magnesia chemicals plant expire in June 2006 and August 2007, respectively.


     Disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to
strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and
earnings from the affected locations. We believe we have good relations with all of our employees,
including our unionized employees.


Delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations.



     Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our
customers, whether by truck, rail, barge, or ship. Any significant delays, disruptions, or the
non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. For
example, in 2004 and partially in 2005, we experienced rail transportation shortages in Texas and
parts of the Southeast. In 2005, following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we experienced significant
barge transportation problems along the Mississippi River system.


Our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting
policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. Our estimates and
assumptions could be wrong.



     The accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and
require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those
standards. We make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters like our
treatment of goodwill, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our estimated
income taxes, and how we account for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. These
estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective
and complex


21




Table of Contents


judgments. If we used different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine
these estimates, our financial results could differ.



     While we believe our estimates and assumptions are correct, we could be wrong, and our
financial results could be different, either higher or lower, if our estimates and assumptions are
wrong. We urge you to read about our critical accounting policies in our Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2005 Annual Report to
Shareholders.


The adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results.



     The accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by
regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. New or revised accounting standards could
change our financial results either positively or negatively. For example, beginning in 2006, we
are required under new accounting standards to expense the fair value of stock options we award our
management and key employees as part of their compensation. This will result in a reduction in our
earnings and will make comparisons between financial periods more difficult. We urge you to read
about our accounting changes in Note A of our 2005 financial statements.


We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and
retain such personnel could affect our business.



     Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel
and executive officers. Our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified
personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful
in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business.


Our magnesia specialties business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of
reasonably priced fuels.



     Our magnesia specialties business sells some of its products to companies in the steel
industry. While we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still
dependent, in part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. The magnesia
specialties business also requires significant amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke and
financial results are negatively affected by high fuel prices or shortages.


Our structural composite products business is a start-up business that has not generated any
profits since its inception.



     Our structural composite products business faces many challenges before it becomes break-even
or generates a profit. While it received its first significant orders in 2005, we cannot ensure
the future profitability of this business.


* * * * * * * * * * * * * *



     Investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors.
Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all
potential risks or uncertainties. Other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the
Company and


22




Table of Contents


may be material to the Company. The forward-looking statements in this document are intended to be
subject to the safe harbor protection provided by Sections 27A and 21E. These forward-looking
statements are made as of the date hereof based on management’s current expectations, and the
Company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events, or otherwise.



     For a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary
materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the Company’s Securities
and Exchange Commission filings, including, but not limited to, the discussion under the heading
“Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements” on pages 18-23 of this Form 10-K, the discussion of
“Competition” on pages 11 and 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 36-71 of the 2005 Annual Report
and “Note A: Accounting Policies” and “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to
Financial Statements” on pages 17-21 and pages 32 and 33, respectively, of the Audited Consolidated
Financial Statements included in the 2005 Annual Report.





ITEM 1B