ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



     An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. You
should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in
this Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase or otherwise trade our securities.


     This Form 10-K and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the
Company contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact,
constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities law. Investors are
cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that
the Company believes in good faith are reasonable, but which may be materially different from
actual


17




Table of Contents


results. Investors can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate only
to historic or current facts. The words “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “anticipate,” “believe,”
“estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “scheduled,” and similar
expressions in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance are
intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any or all of the Company’s forward-looking
statements in this Form 10-K and in other publications may turn out to be wrong.



     Statements and assumptions on future revenues, income and cash flows, performance, economic
trends, the outcome of litigation, regulatory compliance, and environmental remediation cost
estimates are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the
risk factors described in this section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual
performance.


     Factors that the Company currently believes could cause its actual results to differ
materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set
out below. In addition to the risk factors described below, we urge you to read our Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.


Our aggregates business is cyclical and depends on activity within the construction industry.



     The current market environment has hurt the economy, and we have considered the impact on our
business. The overall United States economy remains weak, with national debt at a record high.
While we were encouraged by an increase in our aggregates shipments in 2010, the first year of
volume growth since 2005, demand for our products, particularly in the nonresidential and
residential construction markets, could fall if companies and consumers are unable to get credit
for construction projects or if the economic slowdown causes delays or cancellations of capital
projects. State and federal budget issues may continue to hurt the funding available for
infrastructure spending. The lack of available credit has limited the ability of states to issue
bonds to finance construction projects. Several of our top sales states have stopped bidding
projects in their transportation departments.


     We sell most of our aggregate products to the construction industry, so our results depend on
the strength of the construction industry. Since our business depends on construction spending,
which can be cyclical, our profits are sensitive to national, regional, and local economic
conditions and the aggregates intensity of the underlying spending on aggregates. The overall
economy has been hurt by mortgage security losses and the tightening credit markets. Construction
spending is affected by economic conditions, changes in interest rates, demographic and population
shifts, and changes in construction spending by federal, state, and local governments. If economic
conditions change, a recession in the construction industry may occur and affect the demand for our
aggregate products. The recent economic recession is an example, and our business has been hurt.
Construction spending can also be disrupted by terrorist activity and armed conflicts.


     While our aggregate operations cover a wide geographic area, our earnings depend on the
strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our
products relative to their price. If economic conditions and construction spending decline significantly in
one or more areas, particularly in our top five revenue-generating states of Texas, North Carolina,
Georgia,


18




Table of Contents


Iowa and Louisiana, our profitability will decrease. We experienced this situation with
the recent economic recession.



     The historic economic recession resulted in large declines in shipments of aggregate products
in our industry. Our 5.4% increase in aggregates shipments in 2010 was our first year of volume
growth since 2005. Prior to 2010, use of aggregate products in the United States had declined
almost 40% from the highest volume in 2006. While historical spending on public infrastructure
projects has been comparatively more stable as governmental appropriations and expenditures are
typically less interest rate-sensitive than private sector spending, the current uncertainty
created by the lack of a successor federal highway bill has negatively affected spending on public
infrastructure projects. There has been a reduction in many states’ investment in highway
maintenance.


     In February 2009, President Obama signed into law an economic stimulus plan, which was
designed to stimulate the economy by providing over $29 billion in new funding for transportation
infrastructure. However, the lack of shovel-ready projects and the substitution of stimulus funds
for other projects has both delayed and limited the impact of this stimulus spending on the
aggregates industry. Stimulus spending in four of the top seven states, based on sales, of our
aggregates business, lag the national average. We expect approximately 30% of stimulus-related jobs
in our critical states will be completed in 2011, with any carryover in 2012, the last year of the
stimulus plan spending. We cannot be assured of the full impact of the stimulus plan.


     Within the construction industry, we sell our aggregate products for use in both
nonresidential construction and residential construction. Nonresidential and residential
construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction
levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. The overall economy has been
hurt by the changes in the financial services sector, including failures of several large financial
institutions, historical merger and acquisition activity within that industry, and the resulting
lack of credit availability.


     We experienced an 8% increase in shipments to the nonresidential construction market in 2010,
with growth driven by shipments to the energy sector to support natural gas drilling and
exploration projects. However, other components of the nonresidential construction market remained
weak in 2010 and were negatively affected by continued weakness in the residential construction
market. The commercial part of nonresidential construction generally follows the residential
construction market with a 12-to-18 month lag. We expect this component of the nonresidential
construction market to experience modest volume recovery in 2011. Approximately 26% of our
aggregates shipments in 2010 were to the nonresidential construction market.


     Our shipments to the residential construction market increased 5% in 2010. While the Federal
Reserve kept the federal funds rate at 0% throughout the year, overall weakness in the U.S. economy
and reduced consumer lending by banks limited the impact of this low rate. The excess supply of
developed lots also stifled new housing starts. Although we expect moderate improvement in the
residential construction market in 2011, housing starts are not expected to achieve a normalized
level, estimated at 1.5 million starts nationally, until 2013. Approximately 7% of our aggregates
shipments in 2010 were to the residential construction market.


19




Table of Contents



     Shipments of chemical rock (comprised primarily of material used for agricultural lime and
flue gas desulfurization) and ballast product sales (“ChemRock/Rail”) increased 5% in 2010,
primarily due to increased railroad industry demand. Three of our top ten customers in 2010 were
railroads. We expect our ChemRock/Rail shipments to be relatively flat in 2011 compared to 2010.


Our aggregates business is dependent on funding from a combination of federal, state and local
sources.



     Our aggregates products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the
construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, bridges, schools, prisons, and similar
projects. So our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these
projects. We cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for spending
on future projects.


     The federal highway bill provides annual highway funding for public-sector construction
projects. The most recent federal highway bill passed in 2005 provided funding of $286.4 billion
for highway, transit, and highway safety programs, but ended September 30, 2009. While a multi-year
successor federal highway bill has not been approved, Congress has extended the provisions of the
current law under continuing resolutions through March 4, 2011. Given the record level of
national debt and the resulting pressure on all government spending, we cannot be assured that
Congress will pass a multi-year successor federal highway bill or will continue to extend the
provisions of the most recent law at the same levels. Historically, states have been reluctant to
commit to long-term projects while under continuing resolutions. In fact, obligations for federal
highway funds are at a five-year low through the first half of the fiscal year ending June 30,
2011.


     Federal highway bills provide spending authorizations that represent maximum amounts. Each
year, an appropriation act is passed establishing the amount that can actually be used for
particular programs. The annual funding level is generally tied to receipts of highway user taxes
placed in the Highway Trust Fund. Once the annual appropriation is passed, funds are distributed
to each state based on formulas (apportionments) or other procedures (allocations). Apportioned
and allocated funds generally must be spent on specific programs as outlined in the federal
legislation. The Highway Trust Fund has experienced shortfalls in recent years, due to high gas
prices, fewer miles driven and improved automobile fuel efficiency. These shortfalls created a
significant decline in federal highway funding levels. In response to the projected shortfalls,
money has been transferred from the General Fund into the Highway Trust Fund over the past three
years. Presently, the Congressional Budget Office projects that the highway account, one of the
two components of the Highway Trust Fund, will be unable to meet its obligations in a timely manner
sometime during 2012. We cannot be assured of the existence, timing or amount of federal highway
funding levels in the future.


     At the state level, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated
amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with
voter-approved bond programs. Shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on
state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. Delays in state infrastructure
spending can hurt our business. Nearly all states are now experiencing state-level funding
pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. North
Carolina and Texas are among


20




Table of Contents


the states experiencing these pressures, and these states
disproportionately affect our revenues and profits.


Our aggregates business is seasonal and subject to the weather.



     Since the construction aggregates business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather
patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. Adverse
weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or
sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede
our ability to efficiently transport material, particularly by barge. Adverse weather conditions
also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant
and equipment repairs, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events.
Severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies, restrict production, and limit
movement of barge traffic. The construction aggregates business production and shipment levels
follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occur in the spring, summer and fall.
Because of the weather’s effect on the construction industry’s activity, the aggregates business
production and shipment levels vary by quarter. The second and third quarters are generally the
most profitable and the first quarter is generally the least profitable.


Our aggregates business depends on the availability of aggregate reserves or deposits and our
ability to mine them economically.



     Our challenge is to find aggregate deposits that we can mine economically, with appropriate
permits, near either growing markets or long-haul transportation corridors that economically serve
growing markets. As communities have grown, they have taken up attractive quarrying locations and
have imposed restrictions on mining. We try to meet this challenge by identifying and permitting
sites prior to economic expansion, buying more land around our existing quarries to increase our
mineral reserves, developing underground mines, and developing a distribution network that
transports aggregates products by various transportation methods, including rail and water, that
allows us to transport our products longer distances than would normally be considered economical,
but we can give no assurances that we will be successful.


Our aggregates business is a capital-intensive business.



     The property and machinery needed to produce our products are very expensive. Therefore, we
require large amounts of cash to operate our businesses. We believe that our cash on hand, along
with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will be enough to
give us the cash we need to support our anticipated operating and capital needs. Our ability to
generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general
economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our
operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to
operate our business, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned
capital or operating expenditures.


21




Table of Contents



Our businesses face many competitors.



     Our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are bigger and have more resources than we
do. Some of our competitors also operate on a worldwide basis. Our results are affected by the
number of competitors in a market, the production capacity that a particular market can
accommodate, the pricing practices of other competitors, and the entry of new competitors in a
market. We also face competition for some of our products from alternative products. For example,
our magnesia specialties business may compete with other chemical products that could be used
instead of our magnesia-based products. As another example, our aggregates business may compete
with recycled asphalt and concrete products that could be used instead of new products.


Our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry.



     We expect to continue to grow, in part, by buying other businesses. While the pace of
acquisitions has slowed considerably over the last few years, we will continue to look for
strategic businesses to acquire. In the past, we have made acquisitions to strengthen our
existing locations, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. We will continue to
make selective acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business arrangements we believe will help
our company. However, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability
to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to integrate
acquired businesses into our existing operations. We cannot assume there will continue to be
attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully
integrate into our operations.


     We may decide to pay all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition with shares
of our common stock. We may also use our stock to make strategic investments in other companies to
complement and expand our operations. If we use our common stock in this way, the ownership
interests of our shareholders will be diluted and the price of our stock could fall. We operate
our businesses with the objective of maximizing the long-term shareholder return.


     We have acquired many companies since 1995. Some of these acquisitions were more easily
integrated into our existing operations and have performed as well or better than we expected,
while others have not. We have sold underperforming and other non-strategic assets, particularly
lower margin businesses like our asphalt plants in Houston, Texas, and our road paving businesses
in Shreveport, Louisiana, and Texarkana, Arkansas.


Short supplies and high costs of fuel and energy affect our businesses.



     Our businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke
and other energy. The financial results of these businesses have been affected by the short supply
or high costs of these fuels and energy. While we can contract for some fuels and sources of
energy, such as fixed-price supply contracts for coal and petroleum coke, significant increases in
costs or reduced availability of these items have and may in the future reduce our financial
results. Moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these fuels and energy can make
planning our businesses more difficult. For example, in 2008, increases in energy costs when
compared with 2007 prices lowered net earnings for our businesses by $0.65 per diluted share. Conversely, in 2009, decreases in
energy


22




Table of Contents


costs compared with 2008 prices contributed $1.01 to our net earnings per diluted share.
But in 2010, increases in energy costs compared with 2009 prices again lowered net earnings for our
businesses by $0.34 per diluted share. We do not hedge our diesel fuel price risk, but instead
focus on volume-related price reductions, fuel efficiency, consumption, and the natural hedge
created by the ability to increase aggregates prices.



Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, the
environment, and other areas of the law, and litigation relating to these matters, affect our
businesses. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities.



     Many federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, the
environment, health, safety, and other regulatory matters govern our operations. We take great
pride in our operations and try to remain in strict compliance at all times with all applicable
laws and regulations. Despite our extensive compliance efforts, risk of liabilities, particularly
environmental liabilities, is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with our
competitors. We cannot assume that these liabilities will not negatively affect us in the future.


     We are also subject to future events, including changes in existing laws or regulations or
enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of
some of our products or business activities, which may result in additional compliance and other
costs. We could be forced to invest in preventive or remedial action, like pollution control
facilities, which could be substantial.


     Our operations are subject to manufacturing, operating, and handling risks associated with the
products we produce and the products we use in our operations, including the related storage and
transportation of raw materials, products, hazardous substances, and wastes. We are exposed to
hazards including storage tank leaks, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances,
exposure to dust, and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery.


     These risks can subject us to potentially significant liabilities relating to personal injury
or death, or property damage, and may result in civil or criminal penalties, which could hurt our
productivity or profitability. For example, from time to time we investigate and remediate
environmental contamination relating to our prior or current operations, as well as operations we
have acquired from others, and in some cases we have been or could be named as a defendant in
litigation brought by governmental agencies or private parties.


     We are involved from time to time in litigation and claims arising from our operations. While
we do not believe the outcome of pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse
effect on our operations or our financial condition, we cannot assume that an adverse outcome in a
pending or future legal action would not negatively affect us.


Labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses.



     Labor unions represent 12.9% of the hourly employees of our aggregates business and 100% of
the hourly employees of our specialty products business. Our collective bargaining agreements for


23




Table of Contents


employees of our magnesia specialties business at the Manistee, Michigan magnesia chemicals plant
and the Woodville, Ohio lime plant expire in August 2011 and June 2014, respectively.



     Disputes with our trade unions, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to
strikes or other actions that could disrupt our businesses, raise costs, and reduce revenues and
earnings from the affected locations. We believe we have good relations with all of our employees,
including our unionized employees.


Delays or interruptions in shipping products of our businesses could affect our operations.



     Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our
customers, whether by truck, rail, barge, or ship. Any significant delays, disruptions, or the
non-availability of our transportation support system could negatively affect our operations. For
example, in 2005 and partially in 2006, we experienced rail transportation shortages in Texas and
parts of the southeastern region of the United States. In 2005 and 2006, following Hurricanes
Katrina and Rita, we experienced significant barge transportation problems along the Mississippi
River system.


     Water levels can also affect our ability to transport our products. High water levels limit
the number of barges we can transport and can require that we use additional horsepower to tow
barges. Low water levels can reduce the amount of material we can transport in each barge.


     The availability of rail cars and barges can also affect our ability to transport our
products. Rail cars and barges can be used to transport many different types of products. If
owners sell or lease rail cars and barges for use in other industries, we may not have enough rail
cars and barges to transport our products.


     We have long-term agreements with shipping companies to provide ships to transport our
aggregate products from our Bahamas and Nova Scotia operations to various coastal ports. These
contracts have varying expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2017 and generally contain renewal
options. Our inability to renew these agreements or enter into new ones with other shipping
companies could affect our ability to transport our products.


Our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting
policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. Our estimates and
assumptions could be wrong.



     The accounting standards we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and
require that we make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those
standards. We make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including our
goodwill impairment testing, our expenses and cash requirements for our pension plans, our
estimated income taxes, how we allocate the purchase price of our acquisitions, and how we account
for our property, plant and equipment, and inventory. These estimates and assumptions involve
matters that are inherently uncertain and require our subjective and complex judgments. If we used
different estimates and assumptions or used different ways to determine these estimates, our financial
results could differ.


24




Table of Contents



     While we believe our estimates and assumptions are appropriate, we could be wrong.
Accordingly, our financial results could be different, either higher or lower. We urge you to read
about our critical accounting policies in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.


The adoption of new accounting standards may affect our financial results.



     The accounting standards we apply in preparing our financial statements are reviewed by
regulatory bodies and are changed from time to time. New or revised accounting standards could
change our financial results either positively or negatively. For example, beginning in 2006, we
were required under new accounting standards to expense the fair value of stock options we award
our management and key employees as part of their compensation. This resulted in a reduction of
our earnings and made comparisons between financial periods more difficult. Beginning in 2009, we
were required under new accounting standards to determine whether instruments granted in
stock-based payment transactions under our employee benefit plans were considered “participating
securities” and included in determining our earnings per share. This resulted in a reduction of
our previously-reported net earnings and decreased our previously-reported earnings per share
amounts. We urge you to read about our accounting policies and changes in our accounting policies
in Note A of our 2009 financial statements. The federal regulatory body overseeing our accounting
standards is now implementing a convergence project, which would confirm the accounting in the
United States for various topics to the requirements under international accounting standards.
Proposed changes are being issued one topic at a time. We have not looked at how all of these
topics might impact us. New or revised accounting standards could change our financial results
either positively or negatively.


We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and
retain such personnel could affect our business.



     Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key personnel
and executive officers. Our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified
personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful
in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively affect our business.


Disruptions in the credit markets could affect our business.



     The current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how
it might affect our business. Demand for our products, particularly in the commercial and
residential construction markets, could decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance
construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations to
capital projects. State and federal budget issues may continue to negatively affect the funding
available for infrastructure spending without continued economic stimulus at the federal level.


     A recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on all
of our accounts receivable with our customers. We are protected in part, however, by payment bonds
posted by many of our customers or end-users. Nevertheless, we have experienced a delay in payment
from some of our customers during this economic downturn. Historically our bad debt write-offs have


25




Table of Contents


not been significant to our operating results, and, although the amount of our bad debt write-offs
has increased, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate.



     During this economic downturn we have been forced to temporarily idle some of our facilities.
In 2010, the Company’s Aggregates business operated at a level significantly below capacity, which
restricted the Company’s ability to capitalize $52.4 million of costs that could have been
inventoried under normal operating conditions. If demand does not improve, such temporary idling
could become longer-term, impairing the value of some of the assets at those locations. The timing
of increased demand will determine when these locations will be reopened. During the idling
period, the plant and equipment will continue to be depreciated. If practicable, we will transfer
the mobile equipment and use it elsewhere. Because we continue to have long-term access to the
aggregate reserves, these sites are not considered impaired during temporary idlings.
Nevertheless, there is a risk of long-term asset impairment at sites that are temporarily idled if
the economic downturn does not improve in the near term.


     The credit environment could impact the Company’s ability to borrow money in the future.
Additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at
economically favorable terms. Further, an increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in our
credit ratings. A reduction in our credit ratings, regardless of the cause, could also limit our
ability to obtain additional financing and/or increase our cost of obtaining financing. In 2010,
we repaid with cash $217.6 million of our Floating Rate Senior Notes. We plan to renegotiate our
short-term and accounts credit facility with our banks. We expect to close on a new, multi-year
credit facility by the end of the first quarter of 2011. We expect the new credit facility will
have the same financial covenants as our existing credit facility and will provide us the ability
to refinance our $242 million of Notes that become due and payable in April 2011. While we
anticipate this new credit facility will be in place by the end of the first quarter 2011, there is
no guarantee we will be able to negotiate and put into place the credit facility as described.
There is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at financially economical
interest rates, which could negatively affect our business.


     We may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if
they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. Any large strategic acquisition would require
that we issue both newly issued equity and debt securities in order to maintain our investment
grade credit rating. We are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the
interest payable on our outstanding debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper program, to
the extent it is available to us. While management believes our credit ratings will remain at an
investment-grade level, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. While
management believes the Company will continue to have credit available to it adequate to meet its
needs, there can be no assurance of that.


Our specialty products business depends in part on the steel industry and the supply of reasonably
priced fuels.



     Our specialty products business sells some of its products to companies in the steel industry.
While we have reduced this risk over the last few years, this business is still dependent, in
part, on the strength of the highly-cyclical steel industry. The economic downturn has caused a
significant decline in steel manufacturing. While steelmaking increased in 2010, it is still far
below levels of the past. We anticipate this weakness to continue in 2011. The specialty products
business also requires significant


26




Table of Contents


amounts of natural gas, coal, and petroleum coke, and financial
results are negatively affected by increases in fuel prices or shortages.



Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and shareholder rights plan and North Carolina law may
inhibit a change in control that you may favor.



     Our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws, shareholder rights plan, and North
Carolina law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of us not
approved by our board of directors. This could occur even if our shareholders are offered an
attractive value for their shares or if many or even a majority of our shareholders believe the
takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person
interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in
connection with the transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future
acquisition include the following:






     
    •
     
    a classified board of directors;



     

     
    •
     
    the ability of the board of directors to establish the terms of, and issue,
preferred stock without shareholder approval;



     

     
    •
     
    the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause;



     

     
    •
     
    the inability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and



     

     
    •
     
    super majority shareholder approval requirements for business combination
transactions with certain five percent shareholders.





     In addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that will trigger a dilutive issuance
of common stock upon acquisitions of our common stock by a third party above a threshold that are
not approved by the board of directors. Additionally, the occurrence of certain change of control
events could result in an event of default under certain of our existing or future debt
instruments.


Changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations.



     A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including:






     
    •
     
    Governmental authorities increasing taxes to fund deficits;



     

     
    •
     
    The jurisdictions in which earnings are taxed;



     

     
    •
     
    The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;



     

     
    •
     
    Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;



     

     
    •
     
    Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;



     

     
    •
     
    Changes in available tax credits;





27




Table of Contents















     
    •
     
    Changes in share-based compensation;



     

     
    •
     
    Other changes in tax laws, and



     

     
    •
     
    The interpretation of tax laws and/or administrative practices.





     Any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could reduce net earnings for future
periods.


*  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *



     Investors are also cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors.
Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all
potential risks or uncertainties. Other factors besides those listed may also adversely affect the
Company and may be material to the Company. The Company has listed all known material risks it
considers relevant in evaluating the Company and its operations. The forward-looking statements in
this document are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by Sections 27A and
21E. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof based on management’s current
expectations, and the Company does not undertake an obligation to update such statements, whether
as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.


     For a discussion identifying some important factors that could cause actual results to vary
materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the Company’s Securities
and Exchange Commission filings, including, but not limited to, the discussion under the heading
“Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements” under Item 1A of this Form 10-K, the discussion of
“Competition” under Item 1 on Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of this Form 10-K and the 2010 Annual Report, and
“Note A: Accounting Policies” and “Note N: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to
Financial Statements” of the 2010 Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K and
the 2010 Annual Report.





ITEM 1B