Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) below for a discussion of how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation
and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our businesses.

Risk and Insurance
Services.  While laws and regulations vary from location to location, every state of the United States and most foreign jurisdictions
require insurance market intermediaries and related service providers (such as insurance brokers, agents and consultants, reinsurance brokers, managing
general agents and third party administrators) to hold an individual and/or company license from a governmental agency or self-regulatory organization.
Some jurisdictions issue licenses only to individual residents or locally-owned business entities; in this case, if MMC has no licensed subsidiary, we
may maintain arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in such jurisdiction.

Beginning in January 2005, all European
Union member states were required to implement the Insurance Mediation Directive. This Directive aims to apply consistent minimum professional
standards to insurance intermediaries, including a licensing system based on an assessment of factors such as professional competence, financial
capacity and professional indemnity insurance. As member states of the European Union adopt regulations to comply with the Directive, our insurance
intermediary operations in the European Union have become or will become subject to enhanced regulatory requirements. In January 2005, as part of the
implementation of the Directive in the United Kingdom, the power and responsibilities of the Financial Services Authority, or FSA, were expanded to
include regulation of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries in the United Kingdom.

Insurance authorities in the United
States and certain other jurisdictions in which MMC’s subsidiaries do business, including the FSA in the United Kingdom, also have enacted laws
and regulations governing the investment of funds, such as premiums and claims proceeds, held in a fiduciary capacity for others. These laws and
regulations typically provide for segregation of these fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them.

Certain of MMC’s risk and
insurance services activities are governed by other regulatory bodies, such as investment, securities and futures licensing authorities. In the United
States, Marsh and Guy Carpenter use the services of MMC Securities Corp., an NASD-registered broker dealer and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of
MMC, primarily in connection with investment banking-related services and advising on alternative risk financing transactions. In the European Union,
these businesses receive securities transfer services from another MMC subsidiary, Marsh Advance Risk Solutions Ltd., which is regulated by the FSA for
the conduct of investment business in the United Kingdom.

In some jurisdictions,
insurance-related taxes may be due either from clients directly or from the insurance broker. In the latter case, the broker customarily looks to the
client for payment.

Risk Consulting and
Technology.  Certain of Kroll’s risk consulting and investigative activities are licensed and regulated at the federal, state
and local level in the United States and abroad. Many of these activities also involve the use of data from outside sources, including third party
vendors and governmental records. As a result, changes in existing, or the implementation of new, laws and



12








regulations, particularly relating
to privacy, could interfere with Kroll’s historical access to and use of such data. Substance abuse testing laboratories operated by a Kroll
subsidiary are certified on the federal level and licensed in a number of states.

<FONT FACE="TIMES NEW ROMAN, TIMES, SERIF"
SIZE="2">Consulting.  Certain of Mercer’s retirement-related consulting services are subject to pension law and financial
regulation in many countries, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, in the United States and the FSA in the United Kingdom. In
addition, the trustee services, investment services (including advice to individuals on the investment of personal pension assets and assumption of
discretionary investment management responsibilities) and retirement and employee benefit program administrative services provided by Mercer Human
Resource Consulting and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to investment and securities regulations in various jurisdictions. The benefits
insurance consulting and brokerage services provided by Mercer Human Resource Consulting and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to the same
licensing requirements and regulatory oversight as the insurance market intermediaries described above regarding our Risk and Insurance Services
businesses. In the United States, Mercer Human Resource Consulting and Mercer Management Consulting use the services of MMC Securities Corp. primarily
in connection with retirement and employee benefit plans, and investment banking services, respectively.

Investment
Management.  Virtually all aspects of Putnam’s investment management business are subject to extensive regulation and
supervision by various federal, state, and foreign regulatory authorities. Putnam’s activities are subject to regulation by the SEC and other
federal, state and self-regulatory authorities in the United States, by the FSA in the United Kingdom, by the Financial Services Agency in Japan, and
by the respective national securities regulatory authorities in certain other countries in which it does business. The Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(the “Advisers Act”) imposes numerous obligations on certain of Putnam’s subsidiaries which are registered in the United States as
investment advisers, including record-keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities.
The Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”) imposes similar obligations on the investment companies that are advised by Putnam. The
SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the 1940 Act, ranging from fines and censure to
termination of an investment adviser’s registration. Investment advisers, such as Putnam, with mutual fund and institutional clients are subject
to extensive new SEC regulations, and may become subject to additional SEC regulations in the future, which might entail substantial new administrative
obligations and associated costs and compliance risks for Putnam.

Competitive Conditions

MMC faces strong competition in all of
its business segments from providers of similar products and services. MMC also encounters strong competition throughout its businesses from both
public corporations and private firms in attracting and retaining qualified employees.

Risk and Insurance
Services.  MMC’s combined insurance and reinsurance broking services business is the world’s largest of its kind. The
principal bases upon which our insurance and reinsurance businesses compete include the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided
to clients. MMC encounters strong competition in the risk and insurance services business from other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that
operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of regional and local firms in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere,
from insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other
businesses, including



13








commercial and investment banks,
accounting firms and consultants, that provide risk-related services and products.

Certain insureds and groups of insureds
have established programs of self insurance (including captive insurance companies) as a supplement or alternative to third-party insurance, thereby
reducing in some cases their need for insurance placements. There are also many other providers of affinity group and private client services,
including specialized firms, insurance companies and other institutions.

In 2005, Marsh and Guy Carpenter’s
competitive positions were adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected in the future, by the impact of legal and regulatory
proceedings brought by regulators and law enforcement authorities, and related publicity, concerning their insurance and reinsurance brokerage
operations. These proceedings and the settlement thereof are discussed in more detail in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included
under Item 8 of this report. Please also read our discussion of the risks associated with these proceedings and their impact under Item 1A (“Risk
Factors”) below.

Risk Consulting and
Technology.  In risk consulting and technology, we face competition from local, regional, national and international firms that
provide similar services in the fields of accounting, corporate advisory and restructuring services, investigative and security services, consulting
and technology services. Kroll’s Consulting Services Group faces competition from local, regional, national and international accounting firms and
forensic accounting, litigation support, investigative and other specialist and consulting firms. Kroll’s Corporate Advisory & Restructuring
Group faces competition from national and international accounting firms and specialist recovery firms. Kroll’s Security Group faces competition
from international and local security firms, government security contractors, and architectural engineering firms. Kroll’s Technology Services
Group faces competition from small, independent service providers and technology companies.

<FONT FACE="TIMES NEW ROMAN, TIMES, SERIF"
SIZE="2">Consulting.  MMC’s consulting and HR outsourcing businesses face strong competition from other privately and
publicly held worldwide and national companies, as well as regional and local firms. These businesses compete generally on the basis of the range,
quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. Competitors include independent consulting and outsourcing firms, as well as
consulting and outsourcing operations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms. The employee benefit
plan administrative and trustee business of PFTC that was recently combined with Mercer’s HR outsourcing business was adversely affected in 2004
and 2005 by the market-timing related issues and other events that gave rise to the administrative proceedings brought by the SEC and the Massachusetts
Secretary of the Commonwealth in the fourth quarter of 2003. These events may continue to adversely affect the combined HR outsourcing businesses in
the future. See our discussion of the risks associated with these proceedings and their impact under Item 1A (“Risk Factors”)
below.

Mercer’s investment service
business faces competition from many sources, including multi-manager services offered by other investment consulting firms and financial institutions.
Mercer’s recently established multi-manager business, in particular, faces significant competition from better-established rivals with greater
experience in that market. For many of the services provided by Mercer, clients also have the option of handling these issues internally without
assistance from outside advisors.

Investment
Management.  Putnam’s investment management business is highly competitive. Putnam competes with other providers of investment
products and services primarily on the basis of the range of investment products offered, investment performance, distribution, scope and quality of
shareholder and other services, and general reputation in the marketplace. Sales of Putnam Fund



14








shares are also influenced by
general securities market conditions, government regulations, global economic conditions and advertising and sales promotional efforts. Putnam competes
with other mutual fund firms and institutional asset managers that offer investment products similar to Putnam’s as well as products which Putnam
does not offer, including passively managed funds such as index funds. Putnam also experiences competition from a number of mutual fund sponsors that
offer their funds to the general public without sales charges, which Putnam does not do.

In addition to competition from firms
already in the investment management business, including public and private firms, commercial banks, stock brokerage and investment banking firms and
insurance companies, Putnam experiences competition from other firms offering financial services and other investment alternatives. Although Putnam has
expanded its marketing and distribution outside the United States, it competes in non-U.S. markets with local and global firms, many of which have much
larger investment management businesses than Putnam in their respective non-U.S. markets. Putnam’s competitive position continued to be adversely
affected in 2005, and may continue to be adversely affected in the future, by the underperformance in prior years of certain Putnam Funds relative to
competing products in the mutual fund marketplace.

Many securities dealers, whose large
retail distribution systems play an important role in the sale of shares in the Putnam Funds, also sponsor competing proprietary mutual funds. To the
extent that such securities dealers value the ability to offer customers a broad selection of investment alternatives, they will continue to sell
independent funds, such as Putnam’s, notwithstanding the availability of proprietary products. However, to the extent that these firms limit or
restrict the sale of Putnam Fund shares through their brokerage systems in favor of their proprietary mutual funds, Putnam’s assets under
management, and thus Putnam’s revenues, might decline.

In 2004 and 2005, Putnam’s
competitive position was adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected in the future, by the market-timing related issues and other
events that gave rise to the administrative proceedings brought by the SEC and the Massachusetts state authorities in the fourth quarter of 2003. These
proceedings and the settlement thereof are discussed in more detail in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this
report. Please also read our discussion of the risks associated with these proceedings and their impact below under Item 1A (“Risk
Factors”).

Segmentation of Activity by Type of Service and Geographic
Area of Operation.

Financial information relating to the
types of services provided by MMC and the geographic areas of its operations is incorporated herein by reference to note 17 to the consolidated
financial statements included under Item 8 of this report.

Employees

As of February 1, 2006, MMC and its
consolidated subsidiaries employed about 55,000 people worldwide, including approximately 29,000 in risk and insurance services, approximately 3,500 in
risk consulting and technology, approximately 18,900 in consulting and approximately 3,000 in investment management. Approximately 600 individuals are
employed by MMC at the parent-company level.




15








EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF MMC

The executive officers of MMC are
elected annually. As of February 28, 2006, the following individuals were executive officers of MMC or were chosen to become executive officers of
MMC:

Michael A. Beber, age 46, is
senior vice president and chief strategic development officer of MMC, a position he has held since January 2005. From February 1999 through January
2005, Mr. Beber was executive vice president for strategic development of Kroll Inc. From July 2004 through January 2005 he was also president of
Kroll’s Background Screening Group. From August 1991 to January 1999, Mr. Beber was a principal with Kroll Lindquist Avey, which Kroll acquired in
June 1998. Prior to joining Lindquist Avey, Mr. Beber was a partner with BDO LLP, a senior manager with KPMG Peat Marwick, and a senior accountant with
PriceWaterhouse.

Peter J. Beshar, age 44, is
executive vice president and general counsel of MMC. Before joining MMC in November 2004, Mr. Beshar was a litigation partner in the law firm of
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mr. Beshar joined Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in 1995 after serving as an Assistant Attorney General in the New York
Attorney General’s office.

M. Michele Burns, age 48, joined
MMC as executive vice president on March 1, 2006. She will also assume the position of chief financial officer of MMC by March 31, 2006. Prior to
joining MMC, Ms. Burns was executive vice president and chief financial officer since May 2004, and chief restructuring officer since August 2004, of
Mirant Corporation, an energy company. Prior to joining Mirant, she was executive vice president and chief financial officer of Delta Air Lines, Inc.
from August 2000 to April 2004. She held various other positions in the finance and tax departments of Delta beginning in January 1999. Delta filed for
protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in September 2005.

Mathis Cabiallavetta, age 61, is
vice chairman, office of the CEO of MMC, chairman of MMC International and a member of MMC’s International Advisory Board. He is chairman of Marsh
AG, Switzerland and a member of the board of directors of Kessler & Co, Switzerland. Prior to joining MMC in 1999, Mr. Cabiallavetta was chairman
of the board of UBS A.G., a company he joined in 1971.

E. Michael Caulfield, age 59, is
president of Mercer Human Resource Consulting, a position he assumed in September 2005. Mr. Caulfield joined Mercer as chief operating officer in July
2005. He was a director of UnumProvident Corporation from August 2004 through July 2005. Mr. Caulfield retired as executive vice president of Financial
Management at Prudential Insurance Company of America in 2000, a position he had held since 1998. He joined Prudential in 1989, serving in several
executive positions there including as chief executive officer of Prudential Investments from 1995 to 1998. Prior to joining Prudential, Mr. Caulfield
was a partner of Greenwich Associates, and held various executive positions at Mellon National Corp.

Michael G. Cherkasky, age 56, is
president and chief executive officer of MMC, a position he has held since October 2004. He also served as chairman and chief executive officer of
Marsh Inc. from October 2004 until September 2005. Before its business combination with MMC in July 2004, Mr. Cherkasky was president and chief
executive officer of Kroll Inc. Mr. Cherkasky joined Kroll in 1994, becoming president and chief executive officer in 2001. Prior to joining Kroll, Mr.
Cherkasky spent 16 years in the criminal justice system, including serving as chief of the Investigations Division for the New York County District
Attorney’s Office.

Simon Freakley, age 44, is
president and chief executive officer of Kroll Inc., a position he has held since October 2004. Mr. Freakley was previously a director of Kroll Inc.
since June 2003 and head of Kroll’s Consulting Group since April 2004. He was president of Kroll’s Corporate Advisory & Restructuring
Group from September 2002 until its consolidation with Kroll’s Consulting



16








Services Group in April 2004. From
1996 until his appointment as Kroll’s CEO, Mr. Freakley was also managing partner of Kroll Ltd. (previously Kroll Buchler Phillips and Buchler
Phillips), Kroll’s U.K.-based corporate advisory and restructuring subsidiary. Mr. Freakley joined Buchler Phillips in 1992, and in 1999, the firm
was acquired by Kroll.

E. Scott Gilbert, age 50, is
senior vice president and chief compliance officer of MMC. Prior to joining MMC in January 2005, he was the chief compliance counsel of the General
Electric Company since September 2004. Prior thereto, he was counsel, litigation and legal policy at GE. Between 1986 and 1992, when he joined GE, he
served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York.

Charles E. Haldeman Jr., age 57,
is president and chief executive officer of Putnam Investments. Mr. Haldeman joined Putnam in October 2002 as senior managing director and co-head of
Investments. He was named president and chief executive officer in November 2003. Before joining Putnam, Mr. Haldeman was president and chief executive
officer of Delaware Investments from 2000 to 2002, president and chief operating officer of United Asset Management Corporation from 1998 to 2000, and
a partner and director of Cooke & Bieler, Inc. from 1974 to 1998.

David J. Morrison, age 58, is
president and chief executive officer of Mercer Management Consulting (“Mercer MC”), in which position he oversees the operations of all of
the Mercer Specialty Consulting businesses. He has been a co-president of Mercer, Inc. since February 2005, and a member of the Mercer, Inc. board of
directors since January 2000. Prior to assuming his current position with Mercer MC in November 2002, he was vice chairman of Mercer MC since January
2000. From July 1998 to December 1999 he served as head of Mercer MC’s Strategic Capabilities Group. Mr. Morrison joined Mercer MC as vice
president in December 1997 when Mercer acquired Corporate Decisions, Inc., of which he was the president and a significant
shareholder.

Michael A. Petrullo, age 37, is
senior vice president and chief administrative officer of MMC. After MMC’s acquisition of Kroll in July 2004, Mr. Petrullo became chief financial
officer for the risk consulting businesses of Marsh and Kroll until assuming his current position with MMC in January 2005. Mr. Petrullo was chief
operating officer and executive vice president of Kroll Inc. from December 2002 to July 2004. Prior thereto, he was deputy chief operating officer of
Kroll from June through December of 2002, the acting chief financial officer of Kroll from November 2001 to June 2002, and vice president and
controller of Kroll from August 2001 to November 2001. He was vice president—finance of Kroll’s Investigations and Intelligence Group from
February 1999 until August 2001. He joined Kroll Associates in 1995, serving as assistant controller through February 1998.

John T. Sinnott, age 66, is vice
chairman, office of the CEO of MMC. He has held this position since July 1, 2005, when he re-joined MMC after a period of retirement. Mr. Sinnott was
also a director of Marsh Inc. from June 2005 through December 2005. Mr. Sinnott was chairman and chief executive officer of Marsh Inc. from 1999 to
December 2002 and chairman of Marsh until his retirement in July 2003. He also was a member of the MMC board of directors from 1992 through May 2003.
Mr. Sinnott joined MMC’s predecessor company, Marsh & McLennan, Incorporated, in 1963, and held various executive positions with the Company
including vice chairman and CEO of J&H Marsh & McLennan, Inc. and president and chief executive office of Marsh & McLennan,
Incorporated.

Brian M. Storms, age 51, is
chairman and chief executive officer of Marsh Inc. Prior to assuming his current position in September 2005, Mr. Storms was president and chief
executive officer of Mercer Human Resource Consulting, which he joined in August of 2004 as vice chairman. Prior to joining Mercer, he served as
president since 2001 and then as chief executive officer since July 2002 of UBS Global Asset Management, Americas. Prior thereto, he was president of
Mitchell Hutchins,



17








the asset management subsidiary of
Paine Webber, from 1999 until UBS AG’s acquisition of Paine Webber Group Inc. in November 2000. From 1996 through 1999 Mr. Storms was president of
Prudential Investments.

Sandra S. Wijnberg, age 49, is
senior vice president and chief financial officer of MMC, a position she has held since joining MMC in January 2000. From 1997 through 1999, Ms.
Wijnberg was senior vice president and treasurer of Yum! Brands, Inc. (formerly Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc.). Prior thereto, Ms. Wijnberg spent
three years with PepsiCo, Inc., last serving as senior vice president and chief financial officer of its KFC Corporation division. As announced by MMC
on August 22, 2005, Ms. Wijnberg will resign from MMC in March 2006.

Salvatore D. Zaffino, age 61, is
chairman and chief executive officer of Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc. Prior to becoming chairman in 1999, Mr. Zaffino served as chairman and chief
executive officer of Sedgwick Re North America from 1993 to 1998, when Sedgwick Group plc, its parent company, was acquired by MMC. From 1985 to 1993,
he was chairman of Crump Re, an organization he founded and continued to manage until its merger with Sedgwick Re.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

MMC is subject to the informational
reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with the Exchange Act, MMC files annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K with the SEC. MMC makes these reports available free of charge through its website,
www.mmc.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The public may read and copy such materials at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC, 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other
information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, such as MMC; the address of that site is http://www.sec.gov.

MMC also posts on its website the
following documents with respect to corporate governance:



     •
      
     Guidelines for Corporate Governance;






     •
      
     Code of Business Conduct and Ethics;






     •
      
     Procedures for addressing complaints and concerns of employees
and others; and






     •
      
     the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and
Directors and Governance Committee of MMC’s Board of Directors.




All of the above documents are available in printed form to any
MMC stockholder upon request.




18










     Item
1A.    
      
     Risk Factors.




In addition to the other information
in this report and our other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating MMC and its businesses. The
risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing MMC and its subsidiaries. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known
to us or otherwise, may also impair our business operations. If any of the risks described below or such other risks actually occur, our business,
financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Legal and regulatory proceedings by
federal and state regulators and law enforcement authorities concerning MMC and certain of its subsidiaries, particularly our insurance and reinsurance
brokerage operations, as well as class actions, derivative actions and individual suits brought by policyholders and shareholders, may have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

In October 2004, the Office of the New
York State Attorney General (the “NYAG”) filed a civil complaint in New York State court against MMC and Marsh Inc. asserting claims under
New York law for fraudulent business practices, antitrust violations, securities fraud, unjust enrichment, and common law fraud relating to
Marsh’s broker compensation arrangements, including in particular Marsh’s compensation under market services agreements. Also in October
2004, the New York State Insurance Department (the “NYSID”) issued a citation ordering MMC and a number of its subsidiaries and affiliates
that hold New York insurance licenses to appear at a hearing and show cause why regulatory action should not be taken against them. This citation,
which also related to Marsh’s broker compensation arrangements, charged the respondents with the use of fraudulent, coercive and dishonest
practices; violations of the New York General Business Law relating to contracts or agreements for monopoly or in restraint of trade; and violations of
the New York Insurance Law that resulted from unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices. On January 30, 2005, MMC and
Marsh entered into an agreement with the NYAG and the NYSID to settle the NYAG lawsuit and the NYSID citation (the “Settlement Agreement”).
Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, we agreed to establish a fund of $850 million, payable over four years, for eligible policyholder clients. In
2004, we recorded a charge for the full amount of this fund and on June 1, 2005 we made our first payment into the fund, in the amount of $255 million.
Our next payment, also in the amount of $255 million, is due on June 1, 2006. Approximately 70,000 eligible policyholders across the United States have
elected to receive a distribution from the fund, and will receive approximately $750 million of the $850 million made available
thereunder.

The Settlement Agreement does not
resolve any investigation, proceeding or action commenced by the NYAG or the NYSID against any of our former or current employees. Since the filing of
the NYAG lawsuit, ten former Marsh employees have pleaded guilty to criminal charges relating to the matters under investigation. On September 15,
2005, eight former Marsh employees (including one individual who has since pleaded guilty) were indicted on various counts relating to these same
matters. The NYAG has indicated that its investigation of the insurance industry is continuing.

Notwithstanding the Settlement
Agreement, numerous other lawsuits have been commenced against us, one or more of our subsidiaries, and our current and former directors and officers,
relating to matters alleged in the NYAG lawsuit. Numerous putative class action suits purportedly brought on behalf of policyholders and our
shareholders against us, certain of our subsidiaries and certain of our current and former officers and directors are pending in various federal and
state courts and in Canada. Shareholder derivative suits have been filed in various jurisdictions. There are also several actions brought by individual
policyholders and additional suits may be filed by other policyholders. The myriad claims asserted in these suits include alleged violations of
federal



19








securities and antitrust laws,
ERISA, RICO, and other statutory and common law claims, and seek significant damages. In addition, the State of Connecticut has commenced a lawsuit
against Marsh challenging Marsh’s conduct in connection with the placement of a loss portfolio transfer of workers’ compensation claims for
the State of Connecticut’s Department of Administrative Services. Following the announcement of the NYAG lawsuit and the related actions taken by
MMC, MMC’s stock price dropped from approximately $45 per share to a low of approximately $22.75 per share.

In addition, following the filing of
the NYAG lawsuit, MMC and certain of its subsidiaries received notices of investigations and inquiries, together with requests for documents and
information, from attorneys general, departments of insurance and other governmental entities in a significant number of jurisdictions (other than New
York) that relate to the allegations in the NYAG lawsuit. Offices of attorneys general in 22 jurisdictions have issued one or more requests for
information or subpoenas calling for the production of documents or for witnesses to provide testimony. Subpoenas, letters of inquiry and other
information requests have been received from departments of insurance or other state agencies in 38 jurisdictions. Given the number of pending
investigations, there is a significant possibility that MMC or its subsidiaries could face administrative proceedings or other regulatory actions,
fines or penalties, including, without limitation, actions to revoke or suspend insurance broking licenses. MMC also has been contacted by certain
state attorneys general and commissioners of insurance indicating that they may seek additional monetary or other remedies from MMC.

An adverse outcome under any of the
lawsuits and regulatory actions involving MMC and its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. In addition, the lawsuits and regulatory actions could result in negative publicity, reputational damage and harm to our client
and employee relationships. Any of these developments could negatively affect revenues in our insurance and reinsurance brokerage and other
businesses.

For further information about the above
and other legal and regulatory matters involving MMC and its subsidiaries, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8
of this report.

We may not be successful in
implementing our new business model and restructuring plans.

Since 2004, MMC has made significant
changes to its business model, including the elimination of contingent compensation, or market services, agreements with insurers. The elimination of
market services revenue has negatively affected our financial results. We recognized market services revenue of $124 million in 2005, relating to
insurance placements made before October 1, 2004. This was a decrease of $417 million from 2004, and we expect that market services revenue in 2006
will be lower than in 2005. MMC’s new business model includes an initiative whereby Marsh seeks to increase revenue through higher commissions and
fees that are disclosed to its clients. While we expect that this incremental revenue will affect MMC’s results in 2006, Marsh’s revenue
initiative is subject to competitive challenges and has been progressing more slowly than anticipated. As a result, we cannot be sure of the timing or
amount of the incremental revenue to be achieved.

In light of our new business
environment, we have examined our cost structure to identify areas where expenses can be reduced. As a result of this examination, in the fourth
quarter of 2004 we initiated a restructuring plan including, among other features, the reduction of headcount and the consolidation of facilities. In
2005 we began further restructuring initiatives in response to our business environment. As discussed more fully below under Item 7
(“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”), we expect our 2004 and 2005 restructuring
initiatives to result in annual cost savings of $775 million. We cannot assure you,



20








however, that we will achieve this
level of cost savings, in which case our restructuring efforts would not affect our profitability as positively as we expect.

We may not be able to collect our
remaining accounts receivable for market services revenue earned before October 1, 2004.

Effective October 1, 2004, Marsh agreed
to eliminate contingent compensation agreements with insurers. As of December 31, 2005, we had $130 million of accounts receivable recorded in our
financial statements related to market services revenue earned prior to October 1, 2004. While we intend to collect this outstanding market services
revenue, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in collecting all amounts due. To the extent the accrued amounts are not collected, a charge
to our earnings would result.

We may experience loss of key
personnel and clients.

Across all of our businesses, we must
preserve our capabilities to serve clients and the capacity to support staff development. Retention of our employees therefore is critical to us, and
the loss of key managerial personnel or significant revenue producers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
Since late 2004 we have developed compensation programs to retain, motivate, and reward certain key employees, but we cannot be certain of our ability
to retain our key employees or attract similar new employees in the future.

In addition, as a result of the recent
legal and regulatory matters referred to above, we may lose important clients, or experience difficulty in generating new business, in our insurance
brokerage or other businesses. In this event, our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

Regulatory investigations and
lawsuits arising from market-timing and other issues at Putnam may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

In 2003 and 2004 Putnam entered into
settlements with the SEC and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the “Massachusetts Securities Division”), with respect to excessive
short-term trading by certain former Putnam employees in shares of the Putnam Funds. Also, in late 2003 and continuing through Spring 2005, Putnam
received document subpoenas and/or requests for information from various other federal and state enforcement authorities inquiring into, among other
things, the matters that were the subject of the proceedings by the SEC and the Massachusetts Securities Division.

Various offices of the SEC, the
Massachusetts Securities Division and the Department of Labor are investigating Putnam with respect to, among other things, plan expense reimbursements
with certain multi-employer deferred compensation plans that are Putnam clients, Putnam Research Fund’s investment management fee, the ERISA
aspects of certain investments by the Putnam Profit Sharing Retirement Plan and certain other ERISA issues, and issues relating to the notices
accompanying certain closed-end distributions.

During the course of the SEC’s
investigation of certain matters that arose in the defined contribution plan administration business formerly conducted by PFTC, issues arose relating
to the calculation of certain cost reimbursements paid in previous years by the Putnam Funds to Putnam for transfer agent services relating to defined
contribution operations. These issues are being reviewed by Putnam and the trustees of the Putnam Funds and, pending the completion of this review,
Putnam has recorded charges totaling $37 million for the estimated cost that it believes will be necessary to address these issues. Putnam has briefed
the SEC, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and other governmental authorities on this matter.



21








In addition, MMC and Putnam have
received complaints in over 70 civil actions based on allegations of “market-timing” and, in some cases, “late trading” activities.
These actions were filed in courts in various states, with all actions filed in federal court now having been transferred to the United States District
Court for the District of Maryland. Certain Putnam entities have also been sued in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts
for alleged violations of the Investment Company Act of 1940 in connection with the receipt of purportedly excessive advisory and distribution fees
paid by the mutual funds in which plaintiffs purportedly owned shares. Putnam is also a defendant in a lawsuit by a former institutional client
alleging that Putnam breached its investment management agreement and did not make appropriate disclosures to the client at the time the investment
management agreement was executed, and Putnam also is awaiting the conclusion of an arbitration process involving similar issues with another former
institutional client.

An adverse outcome under, or
reputational damage caused by, any of the legal and regulatory matters involving Putnam could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

For further information about the above
and other legal and regulatory matters involving MMC and its subsidiaries, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements appearing under Item 8
of this report.

Putnam may not be able to maintain
its investment management and administrative fee revenues at current levels.

Putnam’s revenue is derived
primarily from investment management and 12b-1 fees received from the Putnam Funds and investment management fees received from institutional clients.
Investment management revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under management. Among the particular factors affecting
assets under management are the levels of investments and withdrawals by current and new mutual fund shareholders and institutional clients. In 2005,
assets under Putnam’s management were adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected in the future, by redemptions in response to
the underperformance in prior years of certain Putnam Funds relative to competing products in the mutual fund marketplace, as well as by the
“market-timing” and “short-term” trading issues referred to above. Continued declines in Putnam’s assets under management
would negatively affect results of operations in our investment management segment.

The advisory contracts pursuant to
which Putnam receives fees for investment management services provided to the Putnam Funds continue in effect only so long as approved, at least
annually, by the funds’ shareholders or trustees, including a majority who are not affiliated with Putnam. Putnam’s management and the fund
trustees regularly review the fund fee structure in light of fund performance, the level and range of services provided, industry conditions and other
relevant factors. Effective January 1, 2006, pursuant to discussions held with the trustees during the annual management contract review, Putnam
reduced the management fees it receives with respect to nine of its 12 closed-end mutual funds. Further reductions in management fees payable under
these contracts and/or the termination of one or more of these contracts could have a material adverse effect on results of operations in our
investment management segment.

Also, as discussed under Item 7
(“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”), most of the open-end Putnam Funds have
adopted 12b-1 plans pursuant to which the mutual funds make payments to PRM to cover costs for various distribution and related services. Each of these
12b-1 plans, and payments made by the respective Putnam mutual funds thereunder, is subject to annual renewal by the fund’s trustees and to
termination by vote of the fund’s shareholders or by vote of a majority of the fund trustees who are not affiliated with



22








Putnam. Actions by the trustees to
reduce the level of 12b-1 fees paid by a fund or to make other changes that would reduce the amount of 12b-1 fees received by Putnam, or the failure of
the trustees to approve continuation of the 12b-1 plans for Class B (deferred sales charge) shares, would have a material adverse effect on the results
of operations in our investment management segment.

We are subject to significant
uninsured exposures arising from “errors and omissions” claims.

MMC’s operating companies provide
numerous services for clients around the world. For example, Marsh advises on and places insurance coverage, and sometimes provides related services
such as risk management advice and claims management and collections. Guy Carpenter performs similar services in its role as a reinsurance broker.
Mercer renders a variety of consulting and investment management services. As a result of these and other activities, MMC operating companies are
potentially subject to errors and omissions, or E&O, claims by clients and third parties who may allege that they were damaged as a result of
MMC’s failure to perform its duties as expected. MMC works hard to minimize its potential E&O exposures by, among other things, prevention and
remediation efforts and employee education/training, but it is not possible to prevent E&O exposures completely. When E&O claims do arise,
claimants often seek monetary damages. In the case of Marsh and Guy Carpenter, claimants may allege losses representing the value of insurance or
reinsurance coverage lost due to broker negligence. In the case of Mercer, claimants may allege losses due to negligent investment or consulting
advice.

E&O claims in any given case can be
significant and may subject MMC, in addition to potential liability for monetary damages, to reputational harm and diversion of personnel and
management resources. Since 2001, the worldwide market for professional liability insurance for E&O claims in the financial services industry has
contracted significantly, which has caused MMC to assume increasing levels of self-insurance for its potential E&O exposures. MMC uses internal
actuarial and other estimates, and case-level reviews by inside and outside counsel, to establish loss reserves which it believes are adequate to
provide for this self-insured retention. These reserves are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. Nevertheless, given the
unpredictability of E&O claims and of litigation which could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could
have a material adverse effect on MMC’s results of operations or financial condition in a given quarterly or annual period. For further
information about our E&O exposure and related insurance coverage, including self-insurance, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements
appearing under Item 8 of this report.

Declines in premium rate levels in
the insurance and reinsurance markets could adversely affect our Risk and Insurance Services segment revenues.

We derive most of our revenues in the
risk and insurance services segment, which comprised 47% of our 2005 operating segments revenue, from fees paid by clients and commissions paid out of
premiums charged by insurance and reinsurance companies. This compensation is frequently based on premiums paid by insureds, which we do not determine
and which vary widely based on market conditions, which may differ by market cycles, by location and by type of coverage. Factors that may cause market
premium levels to decline include expanded underwriting capacity of insurance carriers, increased competition among insurance carriers and
consolidation in the insurance markets. Declines in premium levels generally or in any particular insurance market would adversely affect revenues
derived from our insurance and reinsurance broking activities.

We operate in a highly competitive
environment.

We generally face strong competition
across all of our business segments from providers of similar products and services. In particular, we have encountered competitive pressures in our
Risk



23








and Insurance Services segment as a
result of the recent legal and regulatory matters referred to above. In our investment management segment, Putnam’s competitive position has been
adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected in the future, by the underperformance in prior years of certain Putnam funds relative to
competing products in the mutual fund marketplace. Mercer’s consulting and administration businesses face increasing competitive pressures, due in
part to an increasing focus by regulators, clients and others on potential conflicts of interest.

Our cost of financing has been
negatively affected by our recent legal and regulatory issues and credit rating downgrades since October 2004.

We may need to raise additional
financing in the future in order to fund maturing debt obligations and, possibly, to fund acquisitions or other growth in our business. Largely as a
result of the legal and regulatory matters referred to above, our cost of financing has been, and may continue to be, negatively
affected.

Following the filing of the NYAG
lawsuit in October 2004, uncertainty regarding changes in our business model, the impact of eliminating contingent compensation agreements and
potential fines and/or penalties resulted in credit rating downgrades by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. Further credit rating downgrades
could negatively affect our access to and cost of financing sources.

We are exposed to various risks
associated with the global nature of our operations.

We have significant worldwide
operations, which subjects us to associated legal, economic, operational and market risks. These risks include, among others:



     •
      
     the economic and political conditions in foreign
countries;






     •
      
     the imposition of local investment or other restrictions by
foreign governments;






     •
      
     the imposition of controls or limitations on the conversion of
foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments from foreign subsidiaries;






     •
      
     the imposition of withholding and other taxes on remittances and
other payments from subsidiaries;






     •
      
     difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed
locations; and






     •
      
     costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of
foreign laws.




Some of our brokerage subsidiaries in foreign countries receive
revenue that differs from their functional currencies. Also, we generally must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S.
dollars. Although we periodically use derivative financial instruments to help protect against adverse effects due to exchange rate fluctuations, we
cannot eliminate these risks, and significant changes in exchange rates may have an adverse effect on our financial results.

Actions by regulatory authorities or
changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business.

Our activities are subject to licensing
requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of the United States and its various states, the European Union and the laws of the many other
countries in which our subsidiaries operate. Our four business segments depend on the validity of, and continued good standing under, the licenses and
approvals pursuant to which they operate, as well as compliance with applicable regulations.

In all jurisdictions, applicable laws
and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad
discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, and to implement regulations. Licenses may be denied or



24








revoked for various reasons,
including the violation of such regulations, conviction of crimes and similar matters. Possible sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of
individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business for specified periods of time, revocation of licenses, censures, redress to
clients and fines. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations, or those generally followed by the industry, of laws or
regulations, which may prove to be different from those of regulatory authorities. Accordingly, the possibility exists that we may be precluded or
temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction.

We cannot assure you that our risk and
insurance services, risk consulting and technology, investment management or consulting activities will continue to be conducted in any given
jurisdiction as they have been in the past. Any significant impairment of our ability to conduct our business as we historically have done could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For further information about regulatory conditions affecting
our business segments, see Item 1 (“Business”).

We may not be able to successfully
integrate the businesses that we acquire.

We have a history of numerous
acquisitions, including our $1.9 billion acquisition of Kroll in July 2004 and nine acquisitions in 2005 for total consideration of $68 million, and we
expect that acquisitions will continue to be a part of our growth strategy. Acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or
productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. Acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated
liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. While we intend that our acquisitions will improve our
competitiveness and profitability, we cannot assure you that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our
operational or strategic expectations.



     Item
1B.    
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments.




There are no unresolved comments to be
reported pursuant to Item 1B