Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) below for a discussion of how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our businesses.

     Risk and Insurance Services. While laws and regulations vary from location to location, every state of the United States and most foreign jurisdictions require insurance market intermediaries and related service providers (such as insurance brokers, agents and consultants, reinsurance brokers, managing general agents and third party administrators) to hold an individual and/or company license from a governmental agency or self-regulatory organization. Some jurisdictions issue licenses only to individual residents or locally-owned business entities; in this case, if MMC has no licensed subsidiary, we may maintain arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in such jurisdiction.

     Beginning in January 2005, all European Union member states were required to implement the Insurance Mediation Directive. This Directive aims to apply consistent minimum professional standards to insurance intermediaries, including a licensing system based on an assessment of factors such as professional competence, financial capacity and professional indemnity insurance. As member states of the European Union adopt regulations to comply with the Directive, our insurance intermediary operations in the European Union have become or will become subject to enhanced regulatory requirements. In January 2005, as part of the implementation of the Directive in the United Kingdom, the power and responsibilities of the Financial Services Authority, or FSA, were expanded to include regulation of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries in the United Kingdom.

     Insurance authorities in the United States and certain other jurisdictions in which MMC’s subsidiaries do business, including the FSA in the United Kingdom, also have enacted laws and regulations governing the investment of funds, such as premiums and claims proceeds, held in a fiduciary capacity for others. These laws and regulations typically provide for segregation of these fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them.

     Certain of MMC’s risk and insurance services activities are governed by other regulatory bodies, such as investment, securities and futures licensing authorities. In the United States, Marsh and Guy Carpenter use the services of MMC Securities Corp., an NASD-registered broker dealer and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of MMC, primarily in connection with investment banking-related services and advising on alternative risk financing transactions. In the European Union, these businesses receive securities transfer services from another MMC subsidiary, MMC Securities Ltd., which is regulated by the FSA for the conduct of investment business in the United Kingdom.

     In some jurisdictions, insurance-related taxes may be due either directly from clients or from the insurance broker. In the latter case, the broker customarily looks to the client for payment.

     Risk Consulting and Technology. Certain of Kroll’s risk consulting and investigative activities are licensed and regulated at the federal, state and local level in the United States and abroad. Many of these activities also involve the use of data from outside sources, including third party vendors and governmental records. As a result, changes in existing, or the implementation of new, laws and regulations, particularly relating to privacy, could interfere with Kroll’s historical access to and use of such data. Substance abuse testing laboratories operated by a Kroll subsidiary are certified on the federal level and licensed in a number of states.

     Consulting. Certain of Mercer HR’s retirement-related consulting services are subject to pension law and financial regulation in many countries, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, in the United States and the FSA in the United Kingdom. In addition, the trustee services, investment services (including advice to individuals on the investment of personal pension assets and assumption of discretionary investment management responsibilities) and retirement and employee benefit program administrative services provided by Mercer Human Resource Consulting and its 

11






subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to investment and securities regulations in various jurisdictions. The benefits insurance consulting and brokerage services provided by Mercer Human Resource Consulting and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to the same licensing requirements and regulatory oversight as the insurance market intermediaries described above regarding our Risk and Insurance Services businesses. In the United States, Mercer Human Resource Consulting and Mercer Management Consulting use the services of MMC Securities Corp. primarily in connection with the sale of retirement and employee benefit plans, and investment banking services, respectively.

     Investment Management. Virtually all aspects of Putnam’s investment management business are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by various federal, state, and foreign regulatory authorities. Putnam’s activities are subject to regulation by the SEC and other federal, state and self-regulatory authorities in the United States, by the FSA in the United Kingdom, by the Financial Services Agency in Japan, and by the national securities regulatory authorities in certain other countries in which it does business. The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the “Advisers Act”) imposes numerous obligations on certain of Putnam’s subsidiaries which are registered in the United States as investment advisers, including record-keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act
of 1940 (the “1940 Act”) imposes similar obligations on the investment companies that are advised by Putnam. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the 1940 Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s registration.

Competitive Conditions

     MMC faces strong competition in all of its business segments from providers of similar products and services. MMC also encounters strong competition throughout its businesses from both public corporations and private firms in attracting and retaining qualified employees.

     Risk and Insurance Services. MMC’s combined insurance and reinsurance broking services business is the world’s largest of its kind. The principal bases upon which our insurance and reinsurance businesses compete include the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. MMC encounters strong competition in the risk and insurance services business from other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of regional and local firms in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere, from insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other businesses, including commercial and investment banks, accounting firms and consultants, that provide risk-related services and products.

     Certain insureds and groups of insureds have established programs of self insurance (including captive insurance companies) as a supplement or alternative to third-party insurance, thereby reducing in some cases their need for insurance placements. There are also many other providers of affinity group and private client services, including specialized firms, insurance companies and other institutions.

     The continuing impact of legal and regulatory proceedings concerning our insurance brokerage operations also could affect Marsh’s competitive position. These proceedings are discussed in more detail in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report. Please also read our discussion of the risks associated with these proceedings and their impact under Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) below.

     Risk Consulting and Technology. In risk consulting and technology, we face competition from local, regional, national and international firms that provide similar services in the fields of accounting, corporate advisory and restructuring services, investigative and security services, consulting and technology services. Kroll’s Consulting Services Group faces competition from local, regional, national 

12






and international accounting firms and forensic accounting, litigation support, investigative and other specialist and consulting firms. Kroll’s Corporate Advisory & Restructuring Group faces competition from national and international accounting firms and specialist recovery firms. Kroll’s Security Group faces competition from international and local security firms, government security contractors, and architectural engineering firms. Kroll’s Technology Services Group faces competition from small, independent service providers and technology companies.

     Consulting. MMC’s consulting and HR outsourcing businesses face strong competition from other privately and publicly held worldwide and national companies, as well as regional and local firms. These businesses compete generally on the basis of the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. Competitors include independent consulting and outsourcing firms, as well as consulting and outsourcing operations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms. 

     Mercer Investment Consulting faces competition from many sources, including multi-manager services offered by other investment consulting firms and financial institutions. Mercer Global Investments, Mercer HR’s recently established multi-manager business, in particular faces significant competition from better-established rivals with greater experience in that market.

     In many cases, clients have the option of handling the services provided by Mercer internally, without assistance from outside advisors.

     Investment Management. Putnam’s investment management business is highly competitive. Putnam competes with other providers of investment products and services primarily on the basis of the range of investment products offered, investment performance, distribution, scope and quality of shareholder and other services, and general reputation in the marketplace. Sales of Putnam Fund shares are also influenced by general securities market conditions, government regulations, global economic conditions and advertising and sales promotional efforts. Putnam competes with other mutual fund firms and institutional asset managers that offer investment products similar to Putnam’s as well as products which Putnam does not offer, including passively managed funds such as index funds. Putnam also experiences competition from a number of mutual fund sponsors that offer their funds to
the general public without sales charges, which Putnam does not do.

     Many securities dealers, whose large retail distribution systems play an important role in the sale of shares in the Putnam Funds, also sponsor competing proprietary mutual funds. To the extent that such securities dealers value the ability to offer customers a broad selection of investment alternatives, they will continue to sell independent funds, such as Putnam’s, notwithstanding the availability of proprietary products. However, to the extent that these firms limit or restrict the sale of Putnam Fund shares through their brokerage systems in favor of their proprietary mutual funds, Putnam’s assets under management, and thus Putnam’s revenues, might decline.

     In addition to the preceding discussion, see “Risk Factors –Competitive Risks,” in Part 1A of this report. 

Segmentation of Activity by Type of Service and Geographic Area of Operation.

     Financial information relating to the types of services provided by MMC and the geographic areas of its operations is incorporated herein by reference to note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report.

Employees

     As of January 1, 2007, MMC and its consolidated subsidiaries employed about 55,200 people worldwide, including approximately 28,300 in risk and insurance services, approximately 3,900 in risk consulting and technology, approximately 19,800 in consulting and approximately 2,600 in investment management. Approximately 600 individuals are employed by MMC at the parent-company level.

13






EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF MMC

     The executive officers of MMC are elected annually by MMC’s board of directors. As of March 1, 2007, the following individuals were executive officers of MMC: 

     Matthew B. Bartley, age 50, is chief financial officer of MMC. Prior to assuming his current position in September 2006, Mr. Bartley was treasurer of MMC, a position he held since joining MMC in April 2001. Previously, Mr. Bartley was vice president of taxes at Engelhard Corporation, a multinational specialty chemicals and precious metals company, with responsibility for tax and transaction planning, execution and reporting. Prior to that role, he served for close to ten years in senior international treasury and tax positions at PepsiCo, Inc., where he was responsible for global strategic transaction planning and execution across international operating businesses.

     Michael A. Beber, age 47, is senior vice president and chief strategic development officer of MMC, a position he has held since January 2005. From February 1999 through January 2005, Mr. Beber was executive vice president for strategic development of Kroll Inc. From July 2004 through January 2005 he was also president of Kroll’s Background Screening Group. From August 1991 to January 1999, Mr. Beber was a principal with Kroll Lindquist Avey, which Kroll acquired in June 1998. Prior to joining Lindquist Avey, Mr. Beber was a partner with BDO LLP, a senior manager with KPMG Peat Marwick, and a senior accountant with PriceWaterhouse.

     Peter J. Beshar, age 45, is executive vice president and general counsel of MMC. Before joining MMC in November 2004, Mr. Beshar was a litigation partner in the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mr. Beshar joined Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in 1995 after serving as an Assistant Attorney General in the New York Attorney General’s office.

     M. Michele Burns, age 49, is chairwoman and chief executive officer of Mercer Human Resource Consulting. Ms. Burns joined MMC as executive vice president on March 1, 2006, assumed the position of chief financial officer of MMC on March 31, 2006 and moved to her current position with Mercer on September 25, 2006. Prior to joining MMC, Ms. Burns was executive vice president and chief financial officer since May 2004, and chief restructuring officer since August 2004, of Mirant Corporation, an energy company. Prior to joining Mirant, she was executive vice president and chief financial officer of Delta Air Lines, Inc. from August 2000 to April 2004. She held various other positions in the finance and tax departments of Delta beginning in January 1999. Delta filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in September 2005.

     Mathis Cabiallavetta, age 62, is vice chairman, office of the CEO of MMC, chairman of MMC International and a member of MMC’s International Advisory Board. He is chairman of Marsh AG, Switzerland and a member of the board of directors of Kessler & Co, Switzerland. He is also a member of the board of directors of Altria Group, Inc., vice president of the Swiss American Chamber of Commerce, and a member of the Advisory Board of General Atlantic Partners in New York. Prior to joining MMC in 1999, Mr. Cabiallavetta was chairman of the board of UBS AG, a company he joined in 1971.

     Michael G. Cherkasky, age 56, is president and chief executive officer of MMC, a position he has held since October 2004. He also served as chairman and chief executive officer of Marsh Inc. from October 2004 until September 2005. Before its business combination with MMC in July 2004, Mr. Cherkasky was president and chief executive officer of Kroll Inc. Mr. Cherkasky joined Kroll in 1994, becoming president and chief executive officer in 2001. Prior to joining Kroll, Mr. Cherkasky spent 16 years in the criminal justice system, including serving as chief of the Investigations Division for the New York County District Attorney’s Office.

     John Drzik, 44, is president and chief executive officer of Mercer Specialty Consulting, a position he assumed in June 2006. Mr. Drzik is also president of Mercer Oliver Wyman, which was formed following MMC’s acquisition of Oliver, Wyman & Company in 2003. Mr. Drzik joined Oliver, Wyman & Company in 1984, became president in 1995, and was appointed chairman in 2000, a position he held until MMC’s acquisition of the firm, when he became president of the new organization.

14






     Simon Freakley, age 45, is president and chief executive officer of Kroll Inc., a position he has held since October 2004. Mr. Freakley was previously a director of Kroll Inc. since June 2003 and head of Kroll’s Consulting Group since April 2004. He was president of Kroll’s Corporate Advisory & Restructuring Group from September 2002 until its consolidation with Kroll’s Consulting Services Group in April 2004. From 1996 until his appointment as Kroll’s CEO, Mr. Freakley was also managing partner of Kroll Ltd. (previously Kroll Buchler Phillips and Buchler Phillips), Kroll’s U.K.-based corporate advisory and restructuring subsidiary. Mr. Freakley joined Buchler Phillips in 1992, and in 1999, the firm was acquired by Kroll.

     E. Scott Gilbert, age 51, is senior vice president and chief compliance officer of MMC. Prior to joining MMC in January 2005, he had been the chief compliance counsel of the General Electric Company since September 2004. Prior thereto, he was counsel, litigation and legal policy at GE. Between 1986 and 1992, when he joined GE, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York.

     Charles E. Haldeman Jr., age 58, is president and chief executive officer of Putnam Investments. Mr. Haldeman joined Putnam in October 2002 as senior managing director and co-head of Investments. He was named president and chief executive officer in November 2003. Before joining Putnam, Mr. Haldeman was president and chief executive officer of Delaware Investments from 2000 to 2002, president and chief operating officer of United Asset Management Corporation from 1998 to 2000, and a partner and director of Cooke & Bieler, Inc. from 1974 to 1998.

     David Nadler, age 58, is vice chairman, office of the CEO of MMC and a member of MMC’s International Advisory Board. Dr. Nadler founded the Delta Consulting Group, Inc., a consulting firm specializing in executive leadership and organizational change, in 1980. He served as chairman and chief executive officer of that firm until its acquisition by MMC’s subsidiary Mercer Inc. in 2000, when it became Mercer Delta Consulting, LLC. Dr. Nadler served as chairman and CEO of Mercer Delta through December 2005 and remains chairman and senior partner of that firm.

     Michael A. Petrullo, age 38, is senior vice president and chief administrative officer of MMC. After MMC’s acquisition of Kroll in July 2004, Mr. Petrullo became chief financial officer for the risk consulting businesses of Marsh and Kroll until assuming his current position with MMC in January 2005. Mr. Petrullo was chief operating officer and executive vice president of Kroll Inc. from December 2002 to July 2004. Prior thereto, he was deputy chief operating officer of Kroll from June through December of 2002, the acting chief financial officer of Kroll from November 2001 to June 2002, and vice president and controller of Kroll from August 2001 to November 2001. He was vice president-finance of Kroll’s Investigations and Intelligence Group from February 1999 until August 2001. He joined Kroll Associates in 1995, serving as assistant controller through February 1998.

     David Spiller, 50, is president and chief executive officer of Guy Carpenter & Company, LLC. Prior to assuming his current position on July 1, 2006, he served as president of Guy Carpenter since joining the firm in January 2006. Before joining Guy Carpenter, Mr. Spiller was chief executive officer of Benfield Ltd., the U.K. subsidiary of Benfield Group Limited, a reinsurance and risk intermediary, where he was responsible for all business and offices outside of the United States. In addition to his leadership position with Benfield Ltd., Mr. Spiller was a managing director and held various other management positions with the Benfield Group. He had transitioned to Benfield through its merger with Greig Fester Group in 1997, where he had held the position of chief executive officer since 1995. Mr. Spiller had joined Greig Fester in 1979.

     Brian M. Storms, age 52, is chairman and chief executive officer of Marsh Inc. Prior to assuming his current position in September 2005, Mr. Storms was president and chief executive officer of Mercer Human Resource Consulting, which he joined in August of 2004 as vice chairman. Prior to joining Mercer, he served as president since 2001 and then as chief executive officer since July 2002 of UBS Global Asset Management, Americas. Prior thereto, he was president of Mitchell Hutchins, the asset 

15






management subsidiary of Paine Webber, from 1999 until UBS AG’s acquisition of Paine Webber Group Inc. in November 2000. From 1996 through 1999 Mr. Storms was president of Prudential Investments.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

     MMC is subject to the informational reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with the Exchange Act, MMC files with the SEC annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. MMC makes these reports available free of charge through its website, www.mmc.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The public may read and copy such materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, such as MMC; the address of that site
is http://www.sec. gov.

     MMC also posts on its website the following documents with respect to corporate governance:


Guidelines for Corporate Governance; 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; 
procedures for addressing complaints and concerns of employees and others; and 
the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Compliance Committee and Directors and Governance Committee of MMC’s Board of Directors. 
All of the above documents are available in printed form to any MMC stockholder upon request.

16






Item 1A. Risk Factors

     In addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the SEC, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating MMC and its businesses. The risks described below have the potential to materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Litigation-Related Risks

     Continuing legal and regulatory proceedings concerning MMC may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

     In January 2005, MMC and its subsidiary Marsh entered into an agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”) with the New York State Attorney General (“NYAG”) and the New York State Insurance Department (“NYSID”) to settle a civil complaint filed in New York State court by NYAG in October 2004 (the “NYAG Lawsuit”) and a related citation (the “Citation”) issued by NYSID at approximately the same time. Among other things, the NYAG Lawsuit and the Citation had alleged that Marsh’s use of market service agreements with various insurance companies entailed fraudulent business practices, bid-rigging, illegal restraint of trade and other violations of the New York business and insurance statutes, and was not adequately disclosed to Marsh’s clients or MMC’s investors. Following the announcement of the NYAG Lawsuit and related actions taken by MMC, MMC’s stock price
dropped from approximately $45 per share to a low of approximately $22.75 per share.

     Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, MMC established a fund of $850 million, payable over four years, for policyholder clients in the U.S who placed insurance through Marsh between 2001 and 2004. Approximately 70,000 eligible policyholders have elected to receive an aggregate distribution of approximately $750 million under this fund.

     Notwithstanding the Settlement Agreement, numerous other lawsuits have been commenced against us, one or more of our subsidiaries, and our current and former directors and officers, relating to matters alleged in the NYAG Lawsuit. Numerous putative class action suits purportedly brought on behalf of policyholders and our shareholders against us, certain of our subsidiaries and certain of our current and former officers and directors are pending in various federal and state courts and in Canada. Shareholder derivative suits have been filed in various jurisdictions. There are also several actions brought by individual policyholders and additional suits may be filed by other policyholders. The myriad claims asserted in these suits include alleged violations of federal securities and antitrust laws, ERISA, RICO, and other statutory and common law claims, and seek significant damages. In addition, the States of Connecticut and Florida
have brought lawsuits against MMC and Marsh.

     Further, following the filing of the NYAG Lawsuit, MMC and certain of its subsidiaries received notices of investigations and inquiries, together with requests for documents and information, from attorneys general, departments of insurance and other governmental entities in a significant number of jurisdictions (other than New York) that relate to the allegations in the NYAG Lawsuit. MMC also has been contacted by certain state attorneys general and commissioners of insurance indicating that they may seek additional monetary or other remedies from MMC.

     An adverse outcome under any of the lawsuits and regulatory actions involving MMC and its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The lawsuits and regulatory actions also could result in negative publicity, reputational damage and harm to our client and employee relationships. Any of these developments could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

     For further information about the above and other legal and regulatory matters involving MMC and its subsidiaries, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report.

17






     MMC has agreed to retain specified liabilities of Putnam, the outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

     On February 1, 2007, we announced our agreement to sell Putnam to Great-West Lifeco., Inc., which we expect to close in mid-2007. Under the stock purchase agreement relating to the sale, MMC has agreed to indemnify Great-West Lifeco., Inc. for liabilities that may arise in connection with specified regulatory and litigation matters involving Putnam, including certain claims, litigation or investigations relating to “excessive fees” or “market-timing.” The matters for which MMC has retained indemnification obligations are more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report. Adverse outcomes in the matters for which MMC has retained indemnification obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

Risks Relating to Our Business Model and Operations

     We may not be as successful as we hope in implementing Marsh’s evolving business model. 

     Since 2004, Marsh has made significant changes to its business model, including the elimination of market service agreements with insurers. The elimination of market service revenue has negatively affected our financial results. In 2004, we recognized market service revenue of $516 million, relating to insurance placements made before October 1, 2004. In 2005 and 2006, respectively, we recognized $114 million and $43 million of market service revenue relating to placements made before October 1, 2004.

     Under MMC’s current business model, Marsh seeks to increase revenue through higher commissions and fees that are disclosed to its clients, and to generate profitable revenue growth by focusing on the provision of value-added risk advisory services beyond traditional brokerage activities. Marsh’s current business and compensation model continues to evolve and in some respects remains untested. We cannot be certain that it will generate the profitable revenue growth we are targeting. The inability to derive adequate revenues from Marsh’s current business and compensation model may significantly impede improvement in our operating results and profitability.

     We may not achieve all the cost savings and operational improvements we expect from our September 2006 restructuring initiative and other changes to our MMC-wide operating model.

     In September 2006, we announced a series of restructuring and other initiatives designed to enhance MMC’s operational efficiency and improve our profitability. These initiatives, which involve information technology, real estate, corporate functions, and operating company business processes, are expected to yield annualized savings of approximately $350 million by the end of 2008, with associated charges of approximately $225 million. We cannot be certain that we will achieve our targeted cost savings and operational improvements on the announced timetable, or at all. If we do not, the impact of the 2006 restructuring initiatives on our operating margin will not be as significant as we currently expect.

     In addition, MMC believes that future revenue growth will partly depend on increased collaboration among MMC’s operating companies in accessing their respective client bases. Similarly, MMC believes that improvements to its future operating efficiency will depend on its ability to rationalize and consolidate business processes and infrastructure across the entire company. Our attempt to achieve these goals entails risks because MMC, due in part to its history of growth through acquisitions, has not traditionally operated in the integrated fashion that management currently envisions. For example, to achieve the above goals we must improve and rationalize our technology infrastructure; standardize a variety of business operational functions; develop increasingly scalable services; improve our ability to market services across our operating companies; create compensation systems that track 

18






and reward cross-business collaboration; and market MMC’s brands in a more unified manner. Any inability to execute these changes may significantly impede improvement in our operating results and profitability.

     We are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from “errors and omissions” claims.

     MMC’s operating companies provide numerous services for clients around the world. For example, Marsh advises on and places insurance coverage, and sometimes provides related services such as risk management advice and claims management and collections. Guy Carpenter performs similar services in its role as a reinsurance broker. Mercer renders a variety of consulting and investment management services. As a result of these and other activities, MMC operating companies are potentially subject to errors and omissions, or E&O, claims by clients and third parties who may allege that they were damaged as a result of MMC’s failure to perform its duties as expected. MMC works hard to minimize its potential E&O exposures by, among other things, prevention and remediation efforts and employee education/training, but it is not possible to prevent E&O exposures completely. When E&O claims do arise, claimants often
seek monetary damages. In the case of Marsh and Guy Carpenter, claimants may allege losses representing the value of insurance or reinsurance coverage lost due to broker negligence. In the case of Mercer, claimants may allege losses due to negligent investment or consulting advice.

     E&O claims in any given case can be significant and may subject MMC, in addition to potential liability for monetary damages, to reputational harm and diversion of personnel and management resources. Since 2001, the worldwide market for professional liability insurance for E&O claims in the financial services industry has contracted significantly, which has caused MMC to assume increasing levels of self-insurance for its potential E&O exposures. MMC uses internal actuarial and other estimates, and case-level reviews by inside and outside counsel, to establish loss reserves which it believes are adequate to provide for this self-insured retention. These reserves are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. Nevertheless, given the unpredictability of E&O claims and of litigation which could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse
effect on MMC’s financial condition or results of operations in a given quarterly or annual period. For further information about our E&O exposure and related insurance coverage, including self-insurance, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements appearing under Item 8 of this report.

     Credit rating downgrades could negatively affect our financing costs if we need to raise additional capital.

     MMC’s credit rating was lowered following the filing of the NYAG Lawsuit in October 2004, and both Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s currently have MMC on a negative credit outlook. If we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), any further credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs or access to financing sources.

     We may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire.

     We have a history of numerous acquisitions, including our $1.9 billion acquisition of Kroll in July 2004; nine acquisitions in 2005 for total consideration of $68 million; and 16 acquisitions in 2006 for total consideration of $200 million. We expect that acquisitions will continue to be a part of our growth strategy.

     Acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. In addition, acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired 

19






businesses. While we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations.

     We are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations.

     We do business worldwide, and we plan to expand our operations further into Asia and other foreign markets. This subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational and market risks. These risks include, among others:


the economic and political conditions in foreign countries; 
the imposition of local investment or other restrictions by foreign governments; 
potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, the requirements of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the rules thereunder, or other U.S. laws and regulations applicable to business operations abroad; 
the imposition of controls or limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments from foreign subsidiaries; 
the imposition of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments from subsidiaries; 
difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and 
potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations administered by foreign government agencies. 
     Some of our subsidiaries in foreign countries receive revenue that differs from their functional currencies. Also, we generally must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Although we may use derivative financial instruments to help protect against adverse effects due to exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot eliminate these risks, and significant changes in exchange rates may have an adverse effect on our financial results.

Competitive Risks

     Each of our businesses operates in a highly competitive environment.

     We encounter strong competition for talent in our risk and insurance services business. This competition comes from other insurance brokerage firms which also operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of regional and local firms throughout the world, from insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other businesses that provide risk-related services. Our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses compete with independent consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world, and experience significant competition for talent. Any inability to respond successfully to this competition could have a material negative impact on our business or results of operations.

     In addition, growing competition due to new legislative or industry developments could adversely affect us. These developments include: 


the selling of insurance by insurance companies directly to insureds without the involvement of a broker or other market intermediary; 
changes in our business compensation model as a result of regulatory investigations; 
20







an increase in competition from existing or recently-formed insurance brokers who have not agreed to limit their use of market service arrangements, thereby giving them a competitive advantage over those brokers, such as Marsh, which have agreed to limit the use of such arrangements; 
the establishment of programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance or reinsurance or other alternative types of coverage in catastrophe-prone areas; and 
the creation of in-house servicing capabilities by insurance companies or by certain insurance consumers which compete with the third party administration and other administration, servicing and risk management products offered by our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments. 
     Increased competition as a result of these developments could cause the supply of, and demand for, our products and services to change, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

     We may experience loss of key personnel and clients.

     Across all of our businesses, we must preserve our capabilities to serve clients and the capacity to support staff development. Retention of our employees therefore is critical to us, and the loss of key managerial personnel or significant revenue producers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Since late 2004 we have developed compensation programs to retain, motivate, and reward certain key employees, but we cannot be certain of our ability to retain our key employees or attract similar new employees in the future. In addition, as a result of the recent legal and regulatory matters referred to above under “Litigation-Related Risks,” as well as Marsh’s newly competitive business environment, we may lose important clients or experience difficulty in generating new business. In that event, our business or results of operations could be materially adversely
affected.

Regulatory Risks

     Actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business.

     Our activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of the United States and its various states, the European Union and the European and other countries in which our subsidiaries operate. Some of this regulation has only recently been instituted; for example, in January 2005, as part of the United Kingdom’s implementation of the EU Insurance Mediation Directive, our insurance and reinsurance services activities in the United Kingdom came under the jurisdiction of the Financial Services Authority. Many of our businesses depend on the validity of, and continued good standing under, the licenses and approvals pursuant to which they operate, as well as compliance with applicable regulations. 

     In all jurisdictions, applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, and to implement regulations. Licenses may be denied or revoked for various reasons, including the violation of such regulations, conviction of crimes and similar matters. Possible sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business for specified periods of time, revocation of licenses, censures, redress to clients and fines. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations, or those generally followed by the industry, of laws or regulations, which may prove to be different from those of regulatory authorities. Accordingly, the possibility exists that we may be precluded or temporarily suspended
from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction.

     21






     We cannot be certain that our risk and insurance services, consulting and risk consulting and technology activities will continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as they have been in the past. Any significant impairment of our ability to conduct our business as we historically have done could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For further information about regulatory conditions affecting our business segments, see Item 1 (“Business”) of this report.

Risks Related to The Risk and Insurance Services Business

     Volatility or declines in premiums and other trends in the insurance and reinsurance markets may significantly impede our ability to generate improved revenue growth and profitability.

     MMC’s risk and insurance services segment represented 45% of our total operating segment revenue in 2006. We derive much our revenue in that segment from fees paid by clients and commissions paid out of premiums charged by insurance and reinsurance providers. We do not determine the insurance premiums on which much of our revenues are based, and these premiums may vary widely over market cycles or across coverage types or geographic locations conditions. For example, for several years through late 2000, heavy competition for market share among insurance carriers, increased underwriting capacity and improved economies of scale following consolidations resulted in flat or reduced premium rates (a “soft” market), which in turn put downward pressure on Marsh’s and Guy Carpenter’s commission revenue in many lines and in many geographic areas. The insurance industry then transitioned to a “hard”
market, in which premium rates were stable or increasing, particularly following the events of September 11th. Since 2004, the market has again softened in many lines and in geographic areas, although, within that general pattern, an unusually high incidence of hurricanes and other natural disasters periods has hardened the market in certain geographic areas and business lines. Because of these market fluctuations, which MMC cannot predict or control, revenues and profitability in our risk and insurance services segment may be volatile or subject to downward pressure.

     In addition, we may continue to witness trends toward the development of alternative insurance markets, which deprive brokers of the opportunity to generate premium-based revenue. These trends include greater levels of self-insurance by corporations and other entities, the use of “captive” insurers and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance needs. While Marsh and Guy Carpenter historically have been able to participate in some of these activities on behalf of their customers, and have obtained fee revenue for such services, the continuation of trends like the foregoing may impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability in our risk and insurance services segment. 

Risks Related to the Consulting and Risk Consulting and Technology Businesses

     In addition to engaging in the risk and insurance services industry through Marsh and Guy Carpenter, MMC participates significantly in the consulting industry and related activities. Our consulting segment, consisting of Mercer HR and Mercer Specialty, represented 35% of our total operating segment revenue in 2006 and our risk consulting and technology segment, consisting of Kroll, contributed 8%. These businesses entail their own risks.

     Demand for Mercer’s and Kroll’s services may decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn or a decline in a client’s or an industry’s financial condition.

     We cannot be certain that demand for our consulting and risk consulting and technology services will continue to grow, or that we will compete successfully with existing or new competitors. Demand for our services also may change based on the evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients. Economic downturns affecting particular clients or industry groups could reduce demand for our services and increase price competition.

22






     In addition, the demand for many of Mercer HR’s benefits services is affected by government regulation and taxation of employee benefits plans. This regulation and taxation drive our clients’ needs for compliance-related services. Significant changes in tax or social welfare policy or regulations could lead some employers to discontinue their employee benefit plans, including defined benefit pension plans, thereby reducing the demand for our services. A simplification of regulations or tax policy also could reduce the need for our services.

     Our results may suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and suitable billing rates for our consultants.

     In many cases, Mercer’s and Kroll’s clients are free to terminate our engagements at any time. If clients reduce the scope of, or terminate the use of our services with little or no notice, our consultant utilization rate might decline. In that case, we must rapidly re-deploy our consultants to other engagements in order to minimize the potential negative impact on our financial performance. Moreover, because a significant portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature, our consultants’ utilization depends on our ability to continually secure additional engagements. 

     In addition, our profitability at Mercer and Kroll is largely a function of the rates we are able to charge for our services and the staffing costs for our personnel. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or appropriate staffing costs of our personnel, we will not be able to sustain our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. The prices we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: 


clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services; 
market demand for the services we provide; 
our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; 
the pricing policies of our competitors; and 
general economic conditions. 
     If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate overall utilization as well as maintain or increase the billing rates for our consultants, our financial results could materially suffer. 

     Quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly in our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments.

     Quarterly variations in Mercer’s and Kroll’s revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. These include:


the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; 
the unpredictability of the timing and amount of success fees, particularly at Kroll; 
the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; 
fluctuations in consultant hiring and utilization rates and clients’ ability to terminate engagements without penalty; 
the success of strategic acquisitions, alliances or investments; and 
general economic conditions, since results of operations in our consulting businesses are directly affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. 
     In addition, a significant portion of total operating expenses at Mercer and Kroll is relatively fixed. Therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses.

23






     Acceleration of the shift by employers from defined benefit plans to defined contribution plans could adversely affect Mercer HR’s operating results.

     Mercer HR currently provides clients with actuarial and consulting services relating to both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. Defined benefit pension plans generally require more services than defined contribution plans because defined benefit plans typically involve large asset pools, complex calculations to determine employer costs, funding requirements and sophisticated analysis to match liabilities and assets over long periods of time. If organizations shift to defined contribution plans more rapidly than we anticipate and we do not adjust our service offerings to take account of that change, Mercer HR’s operating results could be adversely affected.

Item 1B