Item 1A. Risk
Factors

 

Our disclosure and
analysis in our Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking
statements that relate to future events and typically address the Company’s
expected future business and financial performance based on certain
assumptions. These assumptions and expectations of future events and trends are
subject to risks and uncertainties. Depending on a variety of factors, actual
future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or
those reflected in any such forward-looking statements. Provided below is a
cautionary discussion of what we believe to be the most significant risk
factors applicable to the Company. Discussion of these factors is incorporated
by reference into and considered an integral part of Part II, Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations.”

 

* Results are impacted by
the effects of, and changes in, worldwide economic and capital markets
conditions. The
Company operates in more than 65 countries and derives approximately 63 percent
of its revenues from outside the United States. The Company’s business may be
adversely affected by factors in the United States and other countries that are
beyond its control, such as disruptions in financial markets or downturns in
economic activity in specific countries or regions, or in the various
industries in which the Company operates; social, political or labor conditions
in specific countries or regions; or adverse changes in the availability and
cost of capital, interest rates, tax rates, or regulations in the jurisdictions
in which the Company operates.

 

* The Company’s credit
ratings are important to 3M’s cost of capital. The major rating agencies routinely evaluate the
Company’s credit profile and have assigned debt ratings to 3M that are near the
top of the ratings spectrum. This evaluation is based on a number of factors,
which include financial strength, business and financial risk, as well as
transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. The
Company has an AA- credit rating, with a stable outlook, from Standard &
Poor’s and an Aa2 credit rating, with a stable outlook, from Moody’s Investors
Service. The Company’s strong ratings serve to lower 3M’s borrowing costs and
facilitate access to a variety of lenders. Failure to maintain the current
ratings level could adversely affect the Company’s cost of funds, liquidity and
access to capital markets.

 

* The Company’s results are
affected by competitive conditions and customer preferences. Demand for the Company’s products, which
impacts revenue and profit margins, is affected by (i) the development and
timing of the introduction of competitive products; (ii) the Company’s
response to downward pricing to stay competitive; (iii) changes in
customer order patterns, such as changes in the levels of inventory maintained
by customers and the timing of customer purchases which may be affected by
announced price changes, changes in the Company’s incentive programs, or the
customer’s ability to achieve incentive goals; and (iv) changes in
customers’ preferences for our products, including the success of products
offered by our competitors, and changes in customer designs for their products
that can affect the demand for some of the Company’s products.

 

* Foreign currency exchange
rates and fluctuations in those rates may affect the Company’s ability to
realize projected growth rates in its sales and earnings. Because the Company’s financial
statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and approximately 63 percent of the
Company’s revenues are derived from outside the United States, the Company’s
results of operations and its ability to realize projected growth rates in
sales and earnings could be adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens
significantly against foreign currencies.

 

* The Company’s growth
objectives are largely dependent on the timing and market acceptance of its new
product offerings, including its ability to continually renew its pipeline of
new products and to bring those products to market. This ability may be adversely affected
by difficulties or delays in product development, such as the inability to
identify viable new products, obtain adequate intellectual property protection,
or gain market acceptance of new products. There are no guarantees that new
products will prove to be commercially successful.

 

* The Company’s future
results are subject to fluctuations in the costs and availability of purchased
components, compounds, raw materials and energy, including oil and natural gas
and their derivatives, due to shortages, increased demand, supply
interruptions, currency exchange risks, natural disasters and other factors. The Company depends on various
components, compounds, raw materials, and energy (including oil and natural gas
and their derivatives) supplied by others for the manufacturing of its
products. It is possible that any of its supplier relationships could be
interrupted due to natural and other disasters and other events, or be
terminated in the future. Any sustained interruption in the Company’s receipt
of adequate supplies could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In
addition, while the Company has a process to minimize volatility in component
and material pricing, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able
to successfully manage price fluctuations or that future price fluctuations or
shortages will not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

 

8












Table of
Contents

 

* Acquisitions, strategic
alliances, divestitures, and other unusual events resulting from portfolio
management actions and other evolving business strategies, and possible
organizational restructuring could affect future results. The Company monitors its business
portfolio and organizational structure and has made and may continue to make
acquisitions, strategic alliances, divestitures and changes to its
organizational structure. With respect to acquisitions, future results will be
affected by the Company’s ability to integrate acquired businesses quickly and
obtain the anticipated synergies.

 

* The Company’s future
results may be affected if the Company generates fewer productivity
improvements than estimated. The Company utilizes various tools, such as Lean Six
Sigma, to improve operational efficiency and productivity. There can be no
assurance that all of the projected productivity improvements will be realized.

 

* The Company’s future
results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings, including
those involving product liability, antitrust, environmental or other matters. The outcome of these legal proceedings
may differ from the Company’s expectations because the outcomes of litigation,
including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict. Various
factors or developments can lead the Company to change current estimates of
liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or make such
estimates for matters previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates, such
as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement,
significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. A future
adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in future
charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
operations or cash flows in any particular period. For a more detailed
discussion of the legal proceedings involving the Company and the associated
accounting estimates, see the discussion in Note 14.

 

Item 1B