Item 1A. Risk Factors.

The most
significant risk factors applicable to the Company are as follows:

* Results are impacted by the effects of, and changes in, worldwide
economic conditions.
The Company operates in more than 60 countries and derives more than 60% of its
revenues from outside the United States. The Company’s business may be affected
by factors in the United States and other countries that are beyond its
control, such as downturns in economic activity in a specific country or
region, or in the various industries in which the Company operates; social,
political or labor conditions in a specific country or region; or adverse
changes in interest rates, tax, or regulations in the jurisdictions in which
the company operates.

* The
Company’s results are affected by competitive conditions and customer
preferences. Demand
for the Company’s products, which impacts revenue and profit margins, is
affected by (i) the development and timing of the introduction of competitive
products; (ii) the Company’s response to downward pricing to stay competitive;
(iii) changes in customer order patterns, such as changes in the levels of inventory
maintained by customers and the timing of customer purchases which may be
affected by announced price changes, changes in the Company’s incentive
programs, or the customer’s ability to achieve incentive goals; and (iv)
changes in customers’ preferences for our products, including the success of
products offered by our competitors, and changes in customer designs for their
products that can affect the demand for some of the Company’s products.

* Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates may
affect the Company’s ability to realize projected growth rates in its sales and
earnings. Because the
Company derives more than 60% of its revenues from outside the United States,
its ability to realize projected growth rates in sales and earnings could be
adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens significantly against foreign
currencies.

* The Company’s growth objectives are largely dependent on the timing
and market acceptance of its new product offerings, including  its
ability to renew its pipeline of new products and to bring those products to
market. This ability may be adversely affected by difficulties or
delays in product development, such as the inability to identify viable new
products, obtain adequate intellectual property protection, or gain market
acceptance of new products. There are no guarantees that new products will
prove to be commercially successful.

* The Company’s future results are subject to fluctuations in the costs
and availability of purchased components, compounds, raw materials and energy,  including
oil and natural gas and their derivatives, due to
shortages, increased demand, supply interruptions, currency exchange risks,
natural disasters and other factors. The Company depends on various
components, compounds, raw materials, and energy (including oil and natural gas
and their derivatives) supplied by others for the manufacturing of its products
and it is possible that any of its supplier relationships could be interrupted
due to natural and other disasters and other events or be terminated in the
future. Any sustained interruption in the Company’s receipt of adequate
supplies could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition,
while the Company has a process to minimize volatility in component and material
pricing, no assurance can


 8 






be given that the Company will be able to successfully manage price
fluctuations or that future price fluctuations or shortages will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company.

* Acquisitions, strategic alliances, divestitures, and other
unusual events resulting from portfolio management actions and other evolving
business strategies, and possible organizational restructuring could affect
future results. The Company
monitors its business portfolio and organizational structure and has made and
may continue to make acquisitions, strategic alliances, divestitures and
changes to its organizational structure. With respect to acquisitions, future
results will be affected by the Company’s ability to integrate acquired businesses
quickly and obtain the anticipated synergies.

* The Company’s future results may
be affected if the Company generates less productivity improvements than
estimated. The Company utilizes various tools, such as lean Six
Sigma, to improve operational efficiency and productivity. There can be no
assurance that all of the projected productivity improvements will be realized.

* The Company’s future results may
be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings, including those
involving product liability, antitrust, environmental or other matters.
The outcome of these legal proceedings may differ from the Company’s
expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters,
are often difficult to reliably predict. Various factors or developments can
lead the Company to change current estimates of liabilities and related
insurance receivables where applicable, or make such estimates for matters
previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates, such as a significant
judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory
developments or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement
or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in
any particular period. For a more detailed discussion of the legal proceedings
involving the Company and the associated accounting estimates, see the
discussion in Note 13.

Item 1B