Item 1A. “Risk Factors” below.

Products

Natural Sodas. Hansen’s Natural Sodas® have been a leading natural
soda brand in Southern California for the past 25 years.  In 2006, according to Information Resources,
Inc.’s Analyzer Reports for California, our natural sodas recorded the highest
sales among comparable carbonated new age category beverages measured by unit
volume in the California market. Our natural sodas are available in fourteen regular
flavors consisting of mandarin lime, key lime, grapefruit, raspberry, ginger
ale, creamy root beer, grapefruit, vanilla cola, cherry vanilla creme, orange
mango, kiwi strawberry, tropical passion, black cherry and tangerine.  In early 2001, we introduced a new line of
diet sodas using Splenda® sweetener as the primary sweetener.  We initially introduced this line in four
flavors: peach, black cherry, tangerine lime, and kiwi strawberry, and have
since added three additional flavors: ginger ale, creamy root beer and
grapefruit.  Our natural sodas contain no
preservatives, sodium, caffeine or artificial coloring and are made with high
quality natural flavors, citric acid and high fructose corn syrup or, in the
case of diet sodas, with Splenda® and Acesulfame-K.  We package our natural sodas in 12-ounce
aluminum cans.  In 2002, we introduced a
line of natural mixers in 8-ounce aluminum cans comprising club soda, tonic
water and ginger ale.

In January 1999,
we introduced a premium line of Signature Sodas in unique proprietary 14-ounce
glass bottles.  This line was marketed
under the Hansen’s® brand name, primarily through our distributor network, in
six flavors.  In early 2003, we
repositioned this line into lower cost 12-ounce glass packaging to market our repositioned
Signature Soda line at lower price points directly to our retail customers such
as grocery chains, club stores, specialty retail chains and mass merchandisers
and to the health food sector through specialty and health food distributors
(collectively referred to as our “direct retail customers”).  Signature Soda is available in 12-ounce glass
bottles in four flavors: orange crème, vanilla crème, ginger beer and
sarsaparilla.


 4 






In September 2000,
we acquired the Blue Sky® natural soda business from BSNBC.  Our Blue Sky® product line comprises natural
sodas, premium sodas, organic natural sodas, seltzer water, energy drinks, tea
sodas and isotonic sports drinks.  Blue
Sky® natural sodas are available in twelve regular flavors consisting of lemon
lime, grapefruit, cola, root beer, raspberry, cherry vanilla creme, Jamaican
ginger ale, black cherry, orange creme, Dr. Becker, grape and cream soda.  We also offer a premium line of Blue Sky®
natural sodas which contain supplements such as ginseng.  This line is available in six flavors
consisting of ginseng creme, ginseng cola, ginseng root beer, ginseng very
berry creme, ginseng ginger ale, and ginseng cranberry raspberry.  During 1999, Blue Sky® introduced a line of
organic natural sodas, which are available in six flavors consisting of lemon
lime cream, new century cola, orange divine, ginger ale, black cherry cherish,
and root beer.  We also market a seltzer
water under the Blue Sky® label in three flavors: natural, lime and lemon.  In 2002, we introduced a lightly carbonated
Blue Sky® energy drink in an 8.3-ounce slim can.  In 2006, we introduced a 16-ounce size of
Blue Energy as well as both an 8.3-ounce and 16-ounce size of Blue Sky Juiced
Energy, which is lightly carbonated and contains 50% juice.  In 2004, we introduced a new line of Blue
Sky® natural tea sodas in four flavors consisting of Imperial Lime Green Tea,
Peach Mist Green Tea, Pomegranate White Tea and Raspberry Red Tea.  The Blue Sky® products contain no
preservatives, sodium or caffeine (other than the energy drink) or artificial
coloring and are made with high quality natural flavors. Blue Sky® natural
sodas, seltzer waters and tea sodas are all packaged in 12-ounce aluminum cans
and are marketed primarily to our direct retail customers.  In March 2005, we introduced a new light line
of Blue Sky® sodas using natural sweeteners in four flavors: cherry vanilla
crème, creamy root beer, Jamaican ginger ale and wild raspberry in 12-ounce
cans.  In the third quarter of 2005, we
introduced a new line of Blue Sky® natural sodas with real sugar in 12-ounce
cans in four flavors: cherry vanilla crème, cola, ginger ale and root
beer.  In December 2005, we introduced a
new line of Blue Sky® isotonic sports drinks in 16-ounce polyethylene
terephthalate (“PET”) plastic bottles in three flavors: orange, lemon lime and
fruit punch.

In 2001, we
introduced a new line of sparkling lemonades (regular and pink) and orangeades
in unique proprietary 1-liter glass bottles and towards the end of 2002, we
introduced diet versions of these products. In 2003, we extended this line into
unique proprietary 12-ounce glass bottles in both regular and diet
versions.  This product line was marketed
to our direct retail customers.  The
contract packer who produced these products on our behalf underwent a change of
ownership, and experienced production difficulties in 2003, and as a result we
discontinued this product line.  We are
currently evaluating alternative packages for this line.

In 2006, we
introduced a new line of Hansen’s green tea sodas under the Hansen® brand name
in 16-ounce aluminum cans that contain no preservatives, sodium, caffeine or
artificial colors, in four flavors; ginger, lemon mint, tangerine and
pomegranate.  We also introduced a diet
version that contains no carbohydrates or sugar in three flavors; tangerine,
lemon mint, ginger and in 2007, introduced an additional diet flavor,
pomegranate.

Hansen’s® Energy Drinks. In 1997, we introduced a lightly
carbonated citrus flavored Hansen’s® energy drink in 8.3-ounce cans in 4 packs.
Our energy drink competes in the “functional” beverage category, namely,
beverages that provide a real or perceived benefit in addition to simply
delivering refreshment.   We also offered
additional functional energy drinks as well as other functional drinks
including a ginger flavored d-stress® drink, an orange flavored b-well™ drink,
a guarana berry flavored stamina® drink, a grape flavored power drink, and a
berry flavored “slim-down” drink that contained no calories, in the same size
cans.  We have since discontinued sales
of such functional products. Our energy drinks contain vitamins, minerals,
nutrients, herbs and supplements (collectively “supplements”).   In 2004, we offered our Hansen’s® energy
drink in 16-ounce cans which has subsequently been discontinued. In 2006, we
reintroduced our energy products through the Warehouse segment and introduced
Hansen’s® Energy Pro™ 8.3-ounce cans in four packs. In 2001, we introduced
Energade®, a non-carbonated energy sports drink in 23.5-ounce cans in two
flavors, citrus and orange, 


 5 






and subsequently
introduced a third flavor, red rocker, which we have since discontinued.  In 2001 we also introduced E2O Energy Water®, a non-carbonated lightly flavored
water, in 24-ounce blue PET plastic bottles, in four flavors: tangerine, apple,
berry and lemon.   We subsequently
discontinued the apple flavor and introduced a green tea flavor in its
place.  In 2002, we expanded our E2O Energy Water® line with four additional flavors in
clear PET plastic bottles: mango melon, kiwi strawberry, grapefruit and green
tea.  We have since discontinued the E2O Energy Water® line in clear PET plastic bottles.  Our Energade® and E2O Energy Water® drinks also contain different
combinations and levels of supplements. At the end of 2002, we introduced a
lightly carbonated diet energy drink in 8.3-ounce cans under the Hansen’s Diet
Red Energy® brand name.  Our Diet Red
Energy® energy drink is sweetened with Splenda® and Acesulfame-K.  We market our energy and Energade® drinks
primarily through our full service distributor network.  We market our E2O
Energy Water® drinks in blue bottles to our direct retail customers and are
currently in the process of revaluating this line. In 2003, we introduced a new
carbonated energy drink under the Hansen’s® Deuce brand name, in 16-ounce cans,
but with a different flavor from our existing Hansen’s® energy drinks in
8.3-ounce cans.  We have since
discontinued this product.

Monster Energy® Drinks.  In 2002, we launched a new
carbonated energy drink under the Monster Energy® brand name, in 16-ounce cans,
which was almost double the size of our regular energy drinks in 8.3-ounce cans
and the vast majority of competitive energy drinks on the market at that
time.  Our Monster Energy® drink contains
different types and levels of supplements than our Hansen’s® energy drinks and
is marketed through our full service distributor network.  In 2003, we introduced a low carbohydrate (“Lo-Carb”)
version of our Monster Energy® energy drink. 
In 2004, we introduced 4-packs of our Monster Energy® energy drinks
including our Lo-Carb version thereof and, towards the end of 2004, we launched
a new Monster Energy® Assault™ energy drink in 16-ounce cans.  During the first half of 2005, we introduced
our Monster Energy® drinks and Lo-Carb Monster Energy® in 24-ounce size cans as
well as Monster Energy®, Lo-Carb Monster Energy® and Monster Energy® Assault™
in 8.3-ounce size cans.  In September
2005, we introduced a new Monster Energy® Khaos™ energy drink in 16-ounce
cans.  Monster Energy® Khaos™ is lightly
carbonated and contains 70% juice. In 2006, we introduced our Monster Energy®
Assault™ and Monster Energy® Khaos™ energy drinks in 24-ounce size cans.  Also in 2006, we introduced Monster Energy®
Khaos™ energy drinks in 8.3-ounce size cans. 
During the first quarter 2007 we introduced a new Monster M-80™ energy
drink in 16-ounce size cans. Monster M-80™ energy drinks are lightly carbonated
and contain 80% juice.  We also
introduced Monster Energy® energy drinks in 8-packs.

Lost® Energy™ Drinks.  In 2004, we launched a new
carbonated energy drink under the Lost® brand name, in 16-ounce cans. Towards
the end of 2005, we introduced a lo-carb version of Lost® under the Perfect 10™
brand name as well as a new Lost® Five-O™ energy drink, all in 16-ounce
cans.  Lost® Five-O™ contains 50% juice
and is lightly carbonated.  In December
2005, we introduced Lost® and Lost® Five-O™ in 24-ounce size cans.  The Lost® brand name is owned by Lost
International LLC and the drinks are produced, sold and distributed by us under
exclusive license from Lost International LLC.

Rumba™
Energy Juice.  In
December 2004, we launched a new non-carbonated energy juice under the Rumba™
brand name in 15.5-ounce cans.  Rumba™
energy juice is a 100% juice product that targets male and female morning
beverage consumers and is positioned as a substitute for coffee, caffeinated
sodas and 100% orange or other juices.

Joker Mad
Energy™ Drinks.  In the first quarter of 2005, we
introduced Joker Mad Energy™ energy drinks in 16-ounce cans.  Joker Mad Energy™ energy drinks come in
regular, lo-carb and juice versions in 16-ounce cans.

Ace™
Energy  Drinks.  In August 2006, we introduced Ace™
energy drinks in 16-ounce cans.  Ace™
energy drinks come in regular, lo-carb and juice versions in 16-ounce cans.


 6 






Unbound
Energy®  Drinks.  In October 2006, we acquired the
Unbound Energy® trademark and assumed the production, marketing and sale of  Unbound Energy® energy drinks
in 16-ounce cans. We subsequently introduced lo-carb and juice versions in
16-ounce cans.

Java
Monster™ Coffee Drinks. In May 2007, we launched a new
non-carbonated dairy based coffee drink under the Java Monster™ brand name in
16-ounce cans.  Java Monster™ comes in
three versions, “Big Black,” “Loca Moca” and “Mean Bean.”

Juice
Products and Smoothies.  Our fruit juice product line includes Hansen’s®
Natural Apple Juice, which is packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles and
128-ounce polypropylene bottles and White Grape, White Grape Peach, Purple
Grape, Orange, Pomegranate, Apple Strawberry and Apple Grape juice blends, in
64-ounce PET plastic bottles.  These
Hansen’s® juice products contain 100% juice (except Pomegranate which contains
27% juice) as well as Vitamin C.  Hansen’s®
juice products compete in the shelf-stable juice category.  We also offer light juices (light grape,
cranberry and apple) and juice cocktails (apple medley, apple pear, apple berry
and apple white grape) in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles, as well as juice
cocktails (apple cranberry, apple white grape, apple berry and apple) in 32-ounce
PET plastic bottles.

In March 1995, we
introduced a line of fruit juice smoothie drinks in 11.5-ounce aluminum
cans.  Certain flavors were subsequently
offered in glass and PET plastic bottles. We have since discontinued offering
smoothies in glass and PET plastic bottle packages.  Hansen’s fruit juice smoothies have a smooth
texture that is thick but lighter than a nectar.  In 2006, we reformulated Hansen’s smoothies
by adding more fruit purees. Hansen’s smoothies in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans now
contain approximately 25% juice.  Our
fruit juice smoothies provide 100% of the recommended daily intake for adults
of Vitamins A, C & E and represented Hansen’s entry into what is commonly
referred to as the “functional” beverage category.  Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies are available
in ten flavors: strawberry banana, peach berry, mango pineapple, guava
strawberry, pineapple coconut, apricot nectar, tropical passion, whipped
orange, as well as the blast line comprising Island Energy Blast and Colada
Energy Blast.  In 2004, we repositioned
our cranberry raspberry lite smoothie as part of our new lo-carb line of
smoothies.  Our lo-carb smoothie line
currently consists of peach, mango and cran-raspberry flavors in 12-ounce cans.

We market the
above juice and smoothie products to our direct retail customers.

Sparkling
Apple Cider.  In 2002,
we introduced a Sparkling Cider 100% juice drink in a 1.5- liter Magnum glass
bottle.  However, due to reports of some
bottles breaking, we promptly voluntarily recalled this product in the fourth
quarter of 2003. We still intend to reevaluate relaunching this product once
certain production issues are resolved and a suitable co-packer has been
identified.

Iced Teas, Lemonades and Juice Cocktails. We introduced Hansen’s® ready-to-drink
iced teas and lemonades in 1993 and juice cocktails in 1994 in 16-ounce glass
bottles.   At the end of 2002, we
converted this line from 16-ounce glass bottles to 16-ounce polypropylene
bottles. This line was discontinued in 2006.

In 1999, we introduced a line of specialty teas in 20-ounce glass
bottles, which we named our “Gold Standard” line.  This line was discontinued in 2006.

In 2006, we
introduced a new line of iced teas in sleek 16-ounce wide mouth PET plastic
bottles.  This line is sweetened with
cane sugar and includes green tea, peach green tea, lycee green tea and
pomegranate green tea.  In addition, we
offer a sugar free peach green tea with sucralose and an unsweetened black tea.

Juices for Children.  In 1999, we introduced two new lines of children’s
multi-vitamin juice drinks in 8.45-ounce aseptic boxes.  Each drink contains eleven essential vitamins
and six essential minerals.  We introduce
new flavors in place of existing flavors from time to time.  One of these two 


 7 






lines is a
dual-branded 100% juice line named Juice Blast® that was launched in
conjunction with Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”) and is sold through
Costco stores.  The other line was a 10%
juice line named “Hansen’s Natural Multi-Vitamin Juice Slam®” that was
available to all of our customers. 
During 2000, we repositioned that line as a 100% juice line under the
Juice Slam® name and market that line to grocery store chain customers, the
health food trade, and other customers. 
Both the Juice Blast® and Juice Slam® lines are marketed in 6.75-ounce
aseptic boxes.  The Juice Slam® line has
four flavors and the Juice Blast® line has three flavors.

In 2003 we further
extended our fruit juice product line by introducing a 100% apple juice in
6.75-ounce aseptic pouches under the Apple Blasters™ brand.  In 2006 we discontinued our Apple Blasters™
product and repositioned our pouch line by introducing two Juice Slam® organic
pouches in organic apple and organic fruit punch flavors.

In May 2001, we
acquired the Junior Juice® beverage business. 
The Junior Juice® product line is comprised of seven flavors of 100%
juice in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages and is targeted at toddlers.  Six flavors of the Junior Juice® line have
calcium added and all flavors have vitamin C added. The current flavors in the
Junior Juice® line are apple, apple berry, orange twist, apple grape, mixed
fruit, fruit punch and white grape.

In 2006, we
extended the Junior Juice® line by adding organic apple and organic berry
medley juice products in 4.23-ounce aseptic boxes. Each of our organic Junior
Juice® products have 100% juice and contain 100% of the daily recommended
allowance of vitamin C and 10% of the daily recommended allowance of calcium.

Bottled Water. Our still water products were introduced in 1993 and
are primarily sold in 0.5-liter plastic bottles to the food service trade.
Sales of this product line are very limited.

Fizzit™  Powdered Drink Mixes. In
December 2005, we introduced a new line of vitamin and mineral drink mixes in
powdered form under the Fizzit™ brand name in both functional and vitamin and
mineral formulas.  The functional formulas
are offered in raspberry (joint formula), orange (immune support formula),
strawberry (immune support formula) and cranberry (women’s health
formula).  The vitamin and mineral
formula is offered in lemon line and strawberry flavors.

During 2006, we continued
to expand our existing product lines and further develop our markets.  In particular, we continued to focus on
developing and marketing beverages that fall within the category generally
described as the “alternative” beverage category, with particular emphasis on
energy type drinks.

Other Products

We continue to evaluate
and, where considered appropriate, introduce additional flavors and other types
of beverages to complement our existing product lines.  We will also evaluate, and may, where considered
appropriate, introduce functional foods/snack foods that utilize similar
channels of distribution and/or are complementary to our existing products
and/or to which our brand names are able to add value.

We also develop
and supply, on a limited basis, selected beverages in different formats to a
limited number of customers with the objective of solidifying our relationship
with those customers.

Manufacture
and Distribution

We do not directly
manufacture our products but instead outsource the manufacturing process to
third party bottlers and contract packers.


 8 






We purchase
concentrates, juices, flavors, supplements, cans, bottles, aseptic boxes,
aseptic pouches, caps, labels, trays, boxes and other ingredients for our
beverage products which are delivered to our various third party bottlers and
co-packers.  Depending on the product,
the third party bottlers or packers add filtered water and/or high fructose
corn syrup, or sucrose, or cane sugar or Splenda® brand sweetener, Acesulfame-K
and/or citric acid or other ingredients and supplements for the manufacture and
packaging of the finished products into approved containers in accordance with
our formulas.  In the case of sodas and
other carbonated beverages, the bottler/packer adds carbonation to the products
as part of the production process.

We are generally
responsible for arranging for the purchase of and delivery to our third party
bottlers and co-packers of the containers in which our beverage products are
packaged.

All of our
beverage products are manufactured by various third party bottlers and
co-packers situated throughout the United States and Canada under separate
arrangements with each of such parties. 
The majority of our co-packaging arrangements are on a month-to-month
basis.  However, certain of our material
co-packing arrangements are described below:

(a) Our agreement
with Gluek Brewing Company (“Gluek”) pursuant to which Gluek packages certain
of our energy drinks in 8.3-, 15.5-, 16- and 24-ounce cans.  This contract continues until August 2008 and
is automatically renewed for one year periods thereafter.  Either party is entitled at any time to
terminate the agreement upon 180 days prior written notice to the other party.

(b) Our agreement
with Seven-Up/RC Bottling Company of Southern California, Inc. (“Seven-Up”)
pursuant to which Seven-Up packages certain of our MonsterTM and Lost® Energy™
brand energy drinks and a portion of our Hansen’s Natural Sodas®.  This contract continues until March
2009.  Upon termination prior to such
time we are entitled to recover certain equipment we have purchased and
installed at Seven-Up’s facility.

(c) Our agreement
with City Brewing Company LLC (“City Brew”) pursuant to which City Brew
packages certain of our Energade® energy sports drinks and energy drinks in 16-
and 24-ounce cans.  This contract
continues until July 31, 2007. Either party is entitled, at any time, to
terminate the agreement upon 90 days prior written notice to the other party.

(d) Our agreement
with Nor-Cal Beverage Co., Inc. (“Nor-Cal”) pursuant to which Nor-Cal packages
certain of our Hansen’s® juices in PET plastic bottles.  This contract continues until August 2007 and
is renewable annually thereafter from year-to-year unless terminated by Hansen’s
not less than 60 days before the end of the then current term.

(e) Our agreement
with Whitlock Packaging, Inc. (WPI) pursuant to which WPI packages certain of
our 4.23-ounce and 6.75-ounce aseptic juice beverages which include Junior
Juice, Juice Slam and Juice Blast.  This
contract, which commenced on January 1, 2001, is renewable annually thereafter
and may be terminated by either party with not less than 60 days notice.

(f) Our agreement
with Dr. Pepper Bottling Co. (“Dr. Pepper”) pursuant to which Dr. Pepper
packages certain of our energy drinks in 16-ounce cans.  This contract continues until December 31,
2009 and is renewable annually thereafter, unless terminated by either party
with not less than 30 days notice.

(g) Our agreement
with Lucerne Foods, Inc. (“Safeway-Norwalk”) pursuant to which Safeway-Norwalk
packages certain of our energy drinks in 16-ounce cans and Hansen’s Natural Sodas® in 12- ounce
cans.  This contract continues until
March 31, 2009 and is renewable annually thereafter unless terminated by either
party not less than 6 months.

(h) Our agreement
with Pri-Pak, Inc. (“Pri-Pak”) pursuant to which Pri-Pak packages certain of
our energy drinks.  This contract
continues indefinitely but may be terminated at any time by either party upon
ninety (90) days prior written notice to the other.


 9 






(i) Our agreement
with Carolina Beer & Beverage pursuant to which Carolina Beer &
Beverage packages certain of our energy drinks in 8-ounce, 16-ounce and
24-ounce cans.  This contract continues
until April 10, 2009 and is renewable annually thereafter, unless terminated by
either party with not less than 180 days notice.

(j) Our agreement
with Southeast Atlantic Beverage Corporation (“Southeast”) pursuant to which
Southeast packages certain of our Monster Energy® and Lost® Energy™ brand energy drinks. 
This contract continues until July 2007 and is renewable annually
thereafter, unless terminated by either party not less than 180 days prior to
the end of the then current term.

(k) Our agreement
with Southwest Canning and Packaging, Inc. (“Southwest”) pursuant to which
Southwest packages certain of our Hansen’s Natural Sodas®.  This contract continues indefinitely and is
subject to termination upon 60 days written notice from either party.

(l) Our agreement
with Olympic Foods, Inc. (“OFI”) pursuant to which OFI packages certain of our
4.23-ounce and 6.75-ounce aseptic juice beverages which include Junior Juice,
Juice Slam and Juice Blast.  This
contract continues until January 1, 2008 and is renewable annually thereafter,
unless terminated by either party not less than 120 days.

In certain
instances, equipment is purchased by us and installed at the facilities of our
co-packers to enable them to produce certain of our products.  In general, such equipment remains our
property and is to be returned to us upon termination of the packing
arrangements with such co-packers or is amortized over a pre-determined number
of cases that are to be produced at the facilities concerned.

We pack certain
products outside of the West Coast region to enable us to produce products
closer to the markets where they are sold and thereby reduce freight
costs.  As volumes in markets outside of
California grow, we continue to secure additional packing arrangements closer to
such markets to further reduce freight costs.

Our ability to
estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products,
and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new
markets.  If we materially underestimate
demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw
materials including, but not limited to, glass, PET/plastic bottles, cans,
labels, flavors or supplement ingredients or certain sweeteners, or packing
arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis.

Although our
production arrangements are generally of short duration or are terminable upon
request, we believe a short disruption or delay would not significantly affect
our revenues since alternative packing facilities in the United States with
adequate capacity can usually be obtained for many of our products at
commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time
period.  However, there are limited
packing facilities in the United States with adequate capacity and/or suitable
equipment for many of our newer products, including Hansen’s® brand energy
drinks in 8.3-ounce cans, aseptic juice products, Energade® in 24-ounce cans,
teas in 16-ounce PET/plastic bottles, Monster Energy®, Lost® Energy™, RumbaTM, Joker Mad EnergyTM, Ace™, Unbound Energy® energy drinks in 8.3-, 15.5-,
16-, and 24-ounce cans and Java Monster™ coffee drinks in 16-ounce cans. A
disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly
affect our revenues from such products as alternative co-packing facilities in
the United States with adequate capacity may not be available for such products
either at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time
period, if at all.  Consequently, a disruption
in production of such products could affect our revenues.  We continue to seek alternative and/or
additional co-packing facilities in the United States or Canada with adequate
capacity for the production of our various products to minimize the risk of any
disruption in production.


 10 






On April 28, 2006,
HBC entered into a distribution agreement with Cadbury Bebidas, S.A. de C.V. (“Cadbury
Bebidas”), for exclusive distribution by Cadbury Bebidas throughout Mexico,
excluding Baja California, of our Monster Energy® and Lost® EnergyTM energy products.

On May 8, 2006,
HBC entered into the Monster Beverages Off-Premise Distribution Coordination
Agreement and the Allied Products Distribution Coordination Agreement (jointly,
the “Off-Premise Agreements”) with Anheuser-Busch, Inc., a Missouri corporation
(“AB”).  Under the Off-Premise
Agreements, select Anheuser-Busch distributors (the “AB Distributors”) will
distribute and sell, in markets designated by HBC, HBC’s Monster Energy® and
Lost® EnergyTM brands non-alcoholic energy drinks, Rumba™
brand energy juice and Unbound Energy® 
brand energy drinks, as well as additional products that may be agreed
between the parties.  We intend to
continue building our national distributor network primarily with select AB
distributors as well as with our sales force throughout 2007 to support and
grow the sales of our products.

Pursuant to the
Anheuser-Busch Distribution Agreements (the “AB Distribution Agreements”)
entered into with newly appointed AB Distributors, non-refundable payments
totaling $20.9 million were made to the Company by such newly appointed AB
Distributors for the costs of terminating the Company’s prior distributors
through December, 31, 2006. Such receipts have been accounted for as deferred
revenue in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2006
and will be recognized as revenue ratably over the anticipated 20 year life of
the respective AB Distribution Agreements.

As of December 31, 2006,
amounts totaling $3.3 million had been paid to the Company by certain other AB
Distributors in anticipation of executing AB Distribution Agreements with the
Company. Such receipts have been accounted for as customer deposit liabilities
in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31,
2006.

Through December 31, 2006,
the Company incurred termination costs amounting to $12.7 million in aggregate
to certain of its prior distributors. Such termination costs have been expensed
in full and are included in operating expenses for the year ended December 31,
2006. Certain amounts totaling $7.0 million included in such termination costs
were not paid to our prior distributors before the end of our fiscal year and
are therefore included in accrued liabilities in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2006.

On February 8,
2007, HBC entered into the On-Premise Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “On-Premise
Agreement”) with AB.  Under the
On-Premise Agreement, AB will manage and coordinate the sales, distribution and
merchandising of Monster Energy® energy drinks to on-premise retailers
including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in territories approved by HBC.

On March 1, 2007, HBC entered into a distribution agreement with
Pepsi-QTG Canada, a division of PepsiCo Canada, ULC (“Pepsi Canada”), for the
exclusive distribution by Pepsi Canada throughout Canada of our Monster
Energy®, Lost® EnergyTM, Hansen’s® and Joker Mad Energy™ energy
products.

Distribution
levels vary from state to state and from product to product.  Certain of our products are sold in Canada
and Mexico.  We also sell a limited range
of our products to distributors outside of the United States, including in the
Caribbean, Central and South America, Japan, Korea, and Saudi Arabia.

We continually seek
to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with
regional bottlers or other direct store delivery distributors having
established sales, marketing and distribution organizations.  Many of our bottlers and distributors are
affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other soda and non-carbonated
brands and other beverage products.  In
many cases, such products compete directly with our products.

We continue to
endeavor to reduce our inventory levels.


 11 






During 2006, we
continued to expand distribution of our natural sodas and smoothies outside of
California.  We expanded our national
sales force to support and grow sales, primarily of Monster Energy® drinks,
Lost® EnergyTM, AceTM, Unbound Energy®, and Joker
Mad EnergyTM energy drinks, RumbaTM energy juice and Energade® energy sports
drinks and we intend to continue to build such sales force in 2007.

Our Blue Sky®
products are sold primarily to the health food trade, natural food chains and
mainstream grocery store chains, through specialty health food distributors.

During 2004, we entered into exclusive contracts with the State of
California (“State”) Department of Health Services, Women, Infant and Children
(“WIC”) Supplemental Nutrition Branch (“DHS”) to supply 100% apple juice and
100% blended juice in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles. The contracts commenced on
July 12, 2004 and were due to expire in July 2007.  The parties have mutually agreed to extend
the contracts until July 11, 2008.

Under these contracts Hansen’s is the exclusive supplier for both Apple
Juice and for the blended juice category, a new WIC category, initially with
our 100% Apple Grape Juice.  During 2005,
our Apple Strawberry Juice was approved within the blended juice category and
became eligible for redemption under the WIC contract in addition to our 100%
Apple Grape Juice.  The WIC contracts
have expanded the distribution of Hansen’s juices, resulting in increased
exposure for the Hansen’s® brand. 
WIC-approved items are stocked by the grocery trade and by WIC-only
stores.  Products are purchased by WIC
consumers with vouchers given by the DHS to qualified participants.

Our principal warehouse and distribution center and
corporate offices relocated to our current facility in October 2000.  In January 2004, we leased an additional
warehouse facility in Corona, California to consolidate additional space that
had been leased by us on short term leases from time to time to meet our
increased warehousing needs due to increases in both sales volumes and products
and terminated two short term leases concerned. This facility was subsequently
sublet on April 1, 2007. In June 2006, the Company leased additional warehouse
and office space in Corona, California for a one-year period. In October 2006,
we entered into a lease agreement pursuant to which we leased 346,495 square
feet of warehouse and distribution space also located in Corona,
California.  This lease commitment
provides for minimum rental payments for 120 months commencing March 2007,
excluding renewal options.  The monthly
rental payments are $167,586 at the commencement of the lease and increase over
the lease term by 7.5% at the end of each 30 month period. The new warehouse
and distribution space will replace our existing warehouse and distribution
space located in Corona, California. We plan to sublet our existing office,
warehouse and distribution space for the remainder of the lease term, unless we
are able to find a tenant acceptable to the landlord and the landlord agrees to
the early termination of the lease.

In October 2006,
we also entered into an agreement to acquire 1.8 acres of vacant land for a
purchase price of $1.4 million, located adjacent to the newly leased warehouse
and distribution space in Corona, California for the purpose of constructing a
new office building which will replace our existing office space in Corona,
California. In the interim, we have leased additional office space located near
our existing corporate offices.  (See “Part
I Item 2 – Properties”).

Raw
Materials and Suppliers

The principal raw
materials used by us are aluminum cans, glass bottles and PET plastic bottles
as well as juices, high fructose corn syrup, sucrose and sucralose, the costs
of which are subject to fluctuations. 
Due to the consolidations that have taken place in the glass industry
over the past few years, the prices of glass bottles continue to increase.  The prices of PET plastic bottles and
aluminum cans increased significantly in 2006 and again in 2007. The prices of
high fructose corn syrup, sucrose and certain juice concentrates, including
apple, increased in 2006 and certain of these ingredients continued to increase
in 2007.  These increased costs, together
with increased costs primarily of energy, 


 12 






gas and
freight, resulted in increases in certain product costs which are ongoing and
are expected to continue to exert pressure on our gross margins in 2007.  We are uncertain whether the prices of these
or any other raw materials or ingredients will continue to rise in the future.

Generally, raw
materials utilized by us in our business are readily available from numerous
sources.  However, certain raw materials
are manufactured by only one company. 
Sucralose, which is used alone or in combination with Acesulfame-K in
the Company’s low-calorie products, is purchased by us from a single
manufacturer.  Certain of our cans are
only manufactured by a single company in the United States.

With regard to
fruit juice and juice-drink products, the industry is subject to variability of
weather conditions, which may result in higher prices and/or lower consumer
demand for juices.

We purchase
beverage flavors, concentrates, juices, supplements, high-fructose corn syrup,
cane sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as well as other
ingredients from independent suppliers located in the United States and abroad.

Generally, flavor
suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors.  Consequently, we do not have the list of
ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our concentrates readily
available to us and we may be unable to obtain these flavors or concentrates
from alternative suppliers on short notice. 
We have identified alternative suppliers of many of the supplements
contained in many of our beverages. 
However, industry-wide shortages of certain fruits and fruit juices, and
supplements and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the
future, be experienced, which could interfere with and/or delay production of
certain of our products.

We continually
endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for certain of our flavors and
concentrates from other suppliers as well as to conclude arrangements with
suppliers which would enable us to obtain access to certain concentrates or
flavor formulas in certain circumstances. 
We have been partially successful in these endeavors.  Additionally, in a limited number of cases,
contractual restrictions and/or the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals
and licenses may limit our ability to enter into agreements with alternative
suppliers and manufacturers and/or distributors.

In connection with
the development of new products and flavors, independent suppliers bear a large
portion of the expense of product development, thereby enabling us to develop
new products and flavors at relatively low cost.  We have historically developed and
successfully introduced new products and flavors and packaging for our products
and intend to continue developing and introducing additional new beverages and
flavors.

Competition

The beverage industry is
highly competitive.  The principal areas
of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors
and marketing campaigns.  Our products
compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of
manufacturers, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing
and distribution resources than we do.

Important factors
affecting our ability to compete successfully include taste and flavor of
products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development of
new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded
product advertising and pricing.  We also
compete for distributors who will concentrate on marketing our products over
those of our competitors, provide stable and reliable distribution and secure
adequate shelf space in retail outlets. 
Competitive pressures in the alternative, energy and functional beverage
categories could cause our products to be unable to gain or to lose market
share or we could experience price erosion, which could have a material adverse
affect on our business and results.


 13 






Over the past five
years we have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the
energy drink category.  A number of
companies who market and distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in larger
volume packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass bottles, including Sobe,
Snapple Elements, Arizona and Fuse, have added supplements to their products
with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or “energy” beverages
or as having functional benefits.  We
believe that many of those products contain lower levels of supplements and
principally deliver refreshment.  In
addition, many competitive products are positioned differently than our energy
or functional drinks.  Our smoothies and
tea lines are positioned more closely against those products.

We compete not
only for consumer acceptance, but also for maximum marketing efforts by
multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors, many of which have a
principal affiliation with competing companies and brands.  Our products compete with all liquid
refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially better financed
competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally
known producers such as The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo, Inc., Cadbury Schweppes
plc, Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods, Inc., Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and
Ocean Spray. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local
in operation.  Our products also compete
with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains,
convenience store chains and club stores.

Our natural sodas
compete directly with traditional soda products including those marketed by The
Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo, Inc. and Cadbury Schweppes plc, as well as with
carbonated beverages marketed by smaller or primarily local companies such as
Jones Soda Co., Clearly Canadian Beverage Company, Crystal Geyser, J.M. Smucker
Company and with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store
chains, convenience store chains and club stores.

Our fruit juice
smoothies compete directly with Kern’s, Jumex, Jugos del Valle and Libby’s
nectars, V8 Smoothies, as well as with single serve juice products produced by
many competitors.  Such competitive
products are packaged in glass and PET bottles ranging from 8- to 48-ounces in
size and in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans. 
The juice content of such competitive products ranges from 1% to 100%.

Our apple and other juice products compete directly with Tree Top, Mott’s,
Martinelli’s, Welch’s, Ocean Spray, Tropicana, Minute Maid, Langers, Apple and
Eve, Seneca, Northland and also with other brands of apple juice and juice
blends, especially store brands.

Our energy drinks, including Hansen’s® energy, Diet Red, Monster
Energy®, Lost® Energy™, Joker Mad Energy™, Ace™ Energy, Unbound Energy® and
Rumba™ energy juice in 8.3-, 15.5-, 16- and 24-ounce cans, compete directly
with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, 180,
Extreme Energy Shot, Red Devil, Rip It, NOS, Boo Koo, and many other
brands.  The Coca-Cola Company and
PepsiCo Inc. also market and/or distribute additional products in that market
segment such as Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and Vault.

Our Java Monster™ coffee drinks compete directly with Starbucks
Frappuccino and other coffee drinks, Cinnabon coffee drinks and Godiva dairy
based drinks.

Our E2O Energy Water® and still water products
compete directly with Vitamin Water, Propel, Dasani, Aquafina, Fruit2O, Evian, Crystal Geyser, Naya, Palomar Mountain,
Sahara, Arrowhead, Dannon, and other brands of flavored water and still water,
especially store brands.

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and
marketing strategy is to focus our efforts on developing brand awareness and
trial through sampling both in stores and at events in respect of all our
beverages and drink mixes.  We use our
branded vehicles and other promotional vehicles at events at which we
distribute our products to consumers for sampling.  We utilize “push-pull” methods to achieve
maximum shelf and display space exposure in sales outlets and maximum demand
from consumers for our products including advertising, 


 14 






in
store promotions and in store placement of point of sale materials and racks,
prize promotions, price promotions, competitions, endorsements from selected
public and extreme sports figures, coupons, sampling and sponsorship of
selected causes such as cancer research and SPCA’s as well as of extreme sports
teams such as the Pro Circuit – Kawasaki Motocross and Supercross teams,
Kawasaki Factory Motocross and Supercross teams, Alan Pflueger Desert Racing
Team, Kenny Bernstein Drag Racing Team, extreme sports figures and athletes,
sporting events such as the Monster Energy® Pipeline Pro Surfing competition,
marathons, 10k runs, bicycle races, volleyball tournaments and other health and
sports related activities, including extreme sports, particularly supercross,
freestyle motocross, surfing, skateboarding, wakeboarding, skiing,
snowboarding, BMX, mountain biking, snowmobile racing, and also participate in
product demonstrations, food tasting and other related events.  Posters, print, radio and television
advertising together with price promotions and coupons, may also be used to promote
our brands.

Additionally, in
2003 we entered into a multi-year sponsorship agreement to advertise on the new
Las Vegas Monorail (“Monorail Agreement”) with the Las Vegas Monorail Company (“LVMC”)
which includes the right to vend our Monster  Energy® drinks and natural sodas on all
stations.  The initial term of the
Monorail Agreement commenced on January 1, 2005 and has been renewed annually
thereafter.  We have renewed the
agreement for 2007 but at a lower annual rate.

We believe that one of the keys to success in the beverage industry is differentiation
such as making Hansen’s® products visually distinctive from other beverages on
the shelves of retailers.  We review our
products and packaging on an ongoing basis and, where practical, endeavor to
make them different, better and unique. 
The labels and graphics for many of our products are redesigned from
time to time to maximize their visibility and identification, wherever they may
be placed in stores and we will continue to reevaluate the same from time to
time.

Where appropriate
we partner with retailers to assist our marketing efforts.  For example, while we retain responsibility
for the marketing of the Juice Slam® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice
drinks, Costco has undertaken partial responsibility for the marketing of the
Juice Blast® line.

We increased
expenditures for our sales and marketing programs by approximately 50­­% in
2006 compared to 2005.  As of December
31, 2006, we employed 591 employees in sales and marketing activities, of which
231 were employed on a full-time basis.

Customers

Our customers are
typically retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, drug
chains, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, full service beverage
distributors, health food distributors and food service customers.  Sales to our various customer types for 2006
are reflected below.  The allocations
below reflect changes made by the Company to the categories historically
reported.


 
  
  Retail Grocery, specialty
  chains and wholesalers
  
  
   
  
  
  12
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Club stores, drug
  chains & mass merchandisers
  
  
   
  
  
  14
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Full service
  distributors
  
  
   
  
  
  69
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Health food
  distributors
  
  
   
  
  
  2
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Other
  
  
   
  
  
  3
  
  
  %
  
 


 

Our customers
include Cadbury Schweppes Bottling Group (formally known as Dr. Pepper
Bottling/7UP Bottling Group), Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), Kalil
Bottling Group, Trader Joe’s, John Lenore & Company, Costco, Kroger,
Safeway and Albertsons.  A decision by
any large customer to decrease amounts purchased from the Company or to cease
carrying our products could have a material negative effect on our financial
condition and consolidated results of operations.  Cadbury Schweppes Bottling Group, a customer
of the DSD division, accounted for approximately 19%,18% and 


 15 






13% of
our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), a customer of both the DSD
and Warehouse divisions, accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales for
the year ended December 31, 2006.

Seasonality

Sales
of ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat seasonal, with the second and third
calendar quarters accounting for the highest sales volumes.  The volume of sales in the beverage business
may be affected by weather conditions. 
Sales of our beverage products may become increasingly subject to
seasonal fluctuations as more sales occur outside of California with respect to
our products.  However, the energy drink
category appears to be less seasonal than traditional beverages.  As the percentage of our sales that are
represented by such products continues to increase, seasonal fluctuations will
be further mitigated.  Quarterly
fluctuations may also be affected by other factors, including the introduction
of new products, the opening of new markets where temperature fluctuations are
more pronounced, the addition of new bottlers and distributors, changes in the
mix of sales of our finished products and changes in and/or increased
advertising, marketing and promotional expenses.

Intellectual
Property

We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our
business.  Depending upon the
jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their
registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have
become generic.  Registrations of
trademarks can generally be renewed as long as the trademarks are in use.  We also own the copyright in and to numerous
statements made and content appearing on the packaging of our products.

We own the Hansen’s® trademark. 
This trademark is crucial to our business and is registered in the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office and in various countries throughout the world. We
own a number of other trademark registrations including, but not limited to, A
New Kind a Buzz®,Unleash the Beast!®, Hansen’s Energy®, Blue Energy®,
Energade®, Hansen’s E2O Energy Water®, Hansen’s Slim Down®,
Power Formula®, The Real Deal®, Liquidfruit®, California’s Natural Choice®,
Medicine Man®, Hansen’s Power®, B·Well®, Anti-ox®, D-stress®, Stamina®,
Defense®, Immunejuice®, Hansen’s Natural Multi-Vitamin Juice Slam®, Juice
Blast®, Red Rocker®, Monster Energy®, M (stylized)®, M Monster Energy® and
Hansen’s Natural Soda®  in the United States and, the Monster®,
Monster Energy®, M(stylized)®, Hansen’s® and Smoothie® trademarks in a number
of countries around the world.

We have applied to register a number of trademarks in the United States
and elsewhere including, but not limited to, Monster™, Monster Energy™,
M(stylized)™, Assault™, Energy Pro™, Khaos™, Monster M-80™, Predator™, M
Monster Mutant™, Joker Mad Energy™, Ace™, Rumba™, Fizzit™ and Fizz Bomb™, Java
Monster™, Mean Bean™, Java Monster Big Black™, Loca Moca™ and The Juice is
Loose™.

In September 2000, in connection with the acquisition of the Blue Sky
Natural Beverage business, we acquired the Blue Sky® trademark which is
registered in the United States and Canada, through our wholly owned subsidiary
Blue Sky.

In May 2001, in connection with the acquisition of the Junior Juice
beverage business, we acquired the Junior Juice® trademark, which is registered
in the United States, through our wholly owned subsidiary Junior Juice.

In October 2006,
we acquired the Unbound Energy®  trademark
which is registered in the United Sates.

On April 4, 2000, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued
a patent to us for an invention related to a shelf structure (rolling rack) and,
more particularly, a shelf structure for a walk-in cooler.  Such shelf structure is utilized by us to
secure shelf space for and to merchandise our energy and functional drinks in
cans in refrigerated Visi coolers and walk-in coolers in retail stores.


 16 






Government
Regulation

The production,
distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products is subject
to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and
Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various
environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local statutes and
regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety,
advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products.  California law requires that a specific
warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State as
having been found to cause cancer or birth defects.  The law exposes all food and beverage
producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products
because the law recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds
below which a warning is not required. 
Consequently, even trace amounts of listed components can expose
affected products to the prospect of warning labels.  Products containing listed substances that
occur naturally in the product or that are contributed to the product solely by
a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning
requirement.  While none of our beverage
products are required to display warnings under this law, we cannot predict
whether an important component of any of our products might be added to the
California list in the future.  We also
are unable to predict whether or to what extent a warning under this law would
have an impact on costs or sales of our products.

Measures have been
enacted in various localities and states that require that a deposit be charged
for certain non-refillable beverage containers. 
The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary.  Other deposit, recycling or product stewardship
proposals have been introduced in certain states and localities and in
Congress, and we anticipate that similar legislation or regulations may be
proposed in the future at the local, state and federal levels, both in the
United States and elsewhere.

Our facilities in
the United States are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws
and regulations.  Compliance with these
provisions has not had, and we do not expect such compliance to have, any
material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, net income or
competitive position.

Employees

As of December 31, 2006, we employed a total of 748 employees of which
377 were employed on a full-time basis. 
Of our 748 employees, we employ 157 in administrative and operational
capacities and 591 persons in sales and marketing capacities.  We have not experienced any work stoppages
and we consider relations with our employees to be good.

Compliance
with Environmental Laws

In California, we are required to collect redemption values from our
customers and to remit such redemption values to the State of California
Department of Conservation based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain
carbonated and non-carbonated products sold.  In certain other states and Canada
where Hansen’s® products are sold, we are also required to collect deposits
from our customers and to remit such deposits to the respective state agencies
based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and
non-carbonated products sold in such states.


 17 






Available Information

Our Internet address is
www.hansens.com.  Information contained
on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K.  Our annual report on Form 10-K and
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q will be made available free of charge on
www.hansens.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file
such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.  
In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding
exhibits) at no cost by writing or telephoning us at the following address or
telephone number:

Hansen Beverage
Company

1010 Railroad
Street

Corona, CA 92882

(951) 739-6200

(800) HANSENS

(800) 426-7367


 18










ITEM 1A.           RISK
FACTORS

In addition to the other information in this report, you should
carefully consider the following risks. 
If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial
condition and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected.  The risk factors summarized below are not the
only risks we face.  Additional risks and
uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be
immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial
condition and/or operating results.

If we fail to maintain
effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
financial reporting on a consolidated basis, our stock price and investor
confidence in our Company could be materially and adversely affected.

We are required to maintain both disclosure controls
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that are effective
for the purposes described in Part II, Item 9A. If we fail to do so, our
business, results of operations or financial condition and the value of our
stock could be materially harmed.

Part II, Item 9A
reports our changes in internal control over financial reporting relating to
the documentation of stock option grants. We cannot assure that these efforts
will be successful and we may face additional risks of errors or delays in
preparing our consolidated financial statements and associated risks of
potential late filings of periodic reports and increased expenses arising from
such matters.

Legal
proceedings related to our historical stock option grant practices and other
issues may significantly harm our business.

Several
lawsuits have been filed against us and current officers and members of the
Board of Directors in connection with our prior stock option practices. These
lawsuits are described more fully in Part I, Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” and in
Part II, Item 8, Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements contained in
this Form 10-K. Defending these lawsuits will result in significant
expenditures and the continued diversion of our management’s time and attention
from the operation of our business, which could have a negative effect on our
business operations. From time to time, we may become involved in other
litigation or other proceedings. Matters arising out of or related to our
review of historic stock option granting practices, including the outcome of
the informal inquiry commenced by the SEC, any other proceedings which may be
brought against us by the SEC or other governmental agencies, the outcome of
our delisting proceedings and the outcome of litigation could possibly harm our
future results of operations or financial condition due to expenses we may
incur to defend ourselves or the ramifications of an adverse decision.

Increased competition could hurt
our business.

The beverage industry is highly competitive.  The principal areas of competition are
pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and marketing
campaigns.  Our products compete with a
wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers,
most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution
resources than we do.

Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include
taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and
effective development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and
different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing.  Our products compete with all liquid
refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially better financed
competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally
known producers such as The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo Inc., Cadbury Schweppes
plc, Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods Inc., Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and
Ocean Spray.  We also compete with
companies that are smaller or primarily local in operation.  Our products also compete with private label
brands such as 


 19 






those carried by
grocery store chains, convenience store chains, and club stores.  There can be no assurance that we will not
encounter difficulties in maintaining our current revenues or market share or position
due to competition in the beverage industry. 
If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results
of operations could be adversely affected.

We derive a substantial portion
of revenues from our energy drinks and competitive pressure in the “energy
drink” category could adversely affect our operating results.

A substantial portion of our sales are derived from our energy drinks,
including in particular our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. Our DSD
segment which comprises primarily energy drinks, represented 85% of net sales
for the year ended December 31, 2006. 
Any decrease in the sales of our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks
could significantly adversely affect our future revenues and net income.
Historically, we have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in
the energy drink category.  Our energy
drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp,
Adrenaline Rush, 180, Extreme Energy Shot, Red Devil, Rip It, Nos, Boo Koo and
many other brands.  A number of companies
who market and distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in different packages,
such as 16- and 20-ounce glass bottles, including Sobe, Snapple Elements,
Arizona, Fuse, and Vitamin Water, have added supplements to their products with
a view to marketing their products as “functional” or “energy” beverages or as
having functional benefits.  In addition,
certain large companies such as The Coca-Cola Company and PepsiCo Inc. market
and/or distribute products in that market segment such as Mountain Dew,
Mountain Dew MDX, and Vault.  Competitive
pressures in the energy drink category could impact our revenues or we could
experience price erosion or lower market share, any of which could have a
material adverse affect on our business and results.

Change in consumer preferences
may reduce demand for some of our products.

There is increasing awareness and concern for the health consequences
of obesity.  This may reduce demand for
our non-diet beverages, which could affect our profitability.

Consumers are seeking greater variety in their beverages. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our
continued ability to develop and introduce different and innovative
beverages.  In order to retain and expand
our market share, we must continue to develop and introduce different and
innovative beverages and be competitive in the areas of quality and health,
although there can be no assurance of our ability to do so. There is no
assurance that consumers will continue to purchase our products in the
future.  Additionally, many of our
products are considered premium products and to maintain market share during
recessionary periods we may have to reduce profit margins which would adversely
affect our results of operations. 
Product lifecycles for some beverage brands and/or products and/or
packages may be limited to a few years before consumers’ preferences
change.  The beverages we currently
market are in varying stages of their lifecycles and there can be no assurance
that such beverages will become or remain profitable for us.  The
beverage industry is subject to changing consumer preferences and shifts in
consumer preferences may adversely affect us if we misjudge such
preferences.  We may be unable to achieve
volume growth through product and packaging initiatives.  We also may be unable to penetrate new
markets.  If our revenues decline,
our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely
affected.

We rely on bottlers and other
contract packers to manufacture our products. If we are unable to maintain good
relationships with our bottlers and contract packers and/or their ability to
manufacture our products becomes constrained or unavailable to us, our business
could suffer.

We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource such
manufacturing to bottlers and other contract packers.  Although our production arrangements
are generally of short duration or are terminable upon request, in the event of
a disruption or delay, we may be unable to procure alternative packing
facilities at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short
time period.  In addition, there are
limited packing facilities in the United States with adequate capacity 


 20 






and/or
suitable equipment for many of our products, including Hansen’s® brand energy
drinks in 8.3-ounce and 16-ounce cans, our PET tea line, aseptic juice
products, juices in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles, Energade®, Monster Energy®,
Lost® Energy™, Ace™, Unbound Energy®, RumbaTM and Joker Mad EnergyTM energy drinks in 8.3-, 15.5-, 16-, and
24-ounce cans, Java MonsterTM coffee drinks in 16-ounce cans and other
products.  There are also limited shrink
sleeve labeling facilities available to us in the United States with adequate
capacity for our E2O
Energy Water®.  A disruption or delay in
production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues from
such products as alternative co-packing facilities in the United States with
adequate capacity may not be available for such products either at commercially
reasonable rates, and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all.  Consequently, a disruption in production of
such products could adversely affect our revenues.

We rely on
bottlers and distributors to distribute our DSD products.  If we are unable to secure such bottlers and
distributors and/or we are unable to maintain good relationships with our
existing bottlers and distributors, our business could suffer.

We continually seek
to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with
regional bottlers or other direct store delivery distributors having
established sales, marketing and distribution organizations.  Many of our bottlers and distributors are
affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other soda and non-carbonated
brands and other beverage products (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic),
including energy drinks.  In many cases,
such products compete directly with our products.

The marketing
efforts of our distributors are important for our success.  If our DSD brands prove to be less attractive
to our existing bottlers and distributors and/or if we fail to attract
additional bottlers and distributors, and/or our bottlers and/or distributors
do not market and promote our products above the products of our competitors,
our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely
affected.

Our
customers are material to our success. 
If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing
customers, our business could suffer.

Unilateral
decisions could be taken by our distributors, and/or convenience chains,
grocery chains, specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers to
discontinue carrying all or any of the our products that they are carrying at
any time, which could cause our business to suffer.

Two customers accounted for approximately 19% and 12% of the Company’s
net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006, respectively. One customer
accounted for approximately 18% and 13% of the Company’s net sales for the
years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  A decision by either customer, or any other
large customer, to decrease the amount purchased from the Company or to cease
carrying the Company’s products could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial condition and consolidated results of operations.

We have exclusive contracts with the State of California (“State”)
Department of Health Services, Women, Infant and Children (“WIC”) Supplemental
Nutrition Branch (“DHS”) to supply 100% apple juice and 100% blended juice, in
64-ounce PET plastic bottles. The contracts are each for a period of three
years with a further one-year extension option to be mutually agreed between
Hansen’s and the State of California. The parties have mutually agreed to
extend the contracts until July 11, 2008. There is no certainty whether we will
be successful in securing any new future WIC contracts with the State.  If we are unsuccessful in securing new future
WIC contracts with the State, our revenues from those products could be
materially adversely affected.

Increases in cost or shortages of
raw materials or increases in costs of co-packing could harm our business.

The principal raw materials used by us comprise aluminum cans, glass
bottles and PET plastic bottles as well as juices, high fructose corn syrup,
sucrose and sucralose, the costs of which are subject to 


 21 






fluctuations.  Due to the consolidations that have taken
place in the glass industry over the past few years, the prices of glass
bottles continue to increase.  The prices
of PET plastic bottles and aluminum cans increased in 2006 and again in 2007.
The prices of high fructose corn syrup, sucrose and certain juice concentrates,
including apple, increased in 2006 and certain of these ingredients continued
to increase in early 2007. These increased costs, together with increased costs
primarily of energy and gas and freight resulted in increases in certain
product costs which are ongoing and are expected to continue to exert pressure
on our gross margins in 2007.  In
addition, certain of our co-pack arrangements allow such co-packers to increase
their charges based on certain of their own cost increases.  We are uncertain whether the prices of any of
the above or any other raw materials or ingredients will continue to rise in
the future and whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our
customers.

In addition, some of these raw materials, such as a sucralose and
certain sizes of cans, are available from a limited number of suppliers.  Sucralose, which is used in many of the
Company’s products including the Company’s low-calorie products, is purchased
by us from a single manufacturer. While we believe that our 2007 sucralose
volume allocation will be sufficient to meet the demand for our products that
contain sucralose, we may need to reformulate certain of those products that
contain sucralose with alternative sweetener systems to avoid an interruption
in supply of those products, should the need arise.

We may not
correctly estimate demand for our products. 
Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise,
particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid
growth, particularly in new markets.  If
we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure
sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to, PET
plastic bottles, cans, glass, labels, sucralose, flavors, supplements, certain
sweeteners, or packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on
a short-term basis.  Moreover,
industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates, supplements and
sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the future, be
experienced, which could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of
our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and
financial results.  We do not use hedging
agreements or alternative instruments to manage this risk.

The costs of packaging supplies
are subject to price increases from time to time and we may be unable to pass
all or some of such increased costs on to our customers.

The majority of our packaging supplies contracts allow our suppliers to
alter the costs they charge us for packaging supplies based on changes in the
costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce those packaging
supplies, such as resin for PET bottles, aluminum for cans, pulp for cartons
and/or trays.  These changes in the
prices we pay for our packaging supplies occur at certain predetermined times
that vary by product and supplier. 
Accordingly, we bear the risk of increases in the costs of these
packaging supplies, including the underlying costs of the commodities that
comprise these packaging supplies. We do not use derivative instruments to
manage this risk.  If the costs of these
packaging supplies increase, we may be unable to pass these costs along to our
customers through corresponding adjustments to the prices we charge, which
could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

We rely upon our ongoing
relationships with our key flavor suppliers. 
If we are unable to source our flavors on acceptable terms from our key
suppliers, we could suffer disruptions in our business.

Generally, flavor suppliers
hold the proprietary rights to their flavors. 
Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our
flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to us and we may be
unable to obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on
short notice. Industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates,
supplements and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the
future, be experienced, which could interfere with and/or delay production of
certain of our products.  If we have to
replace a flavor supplier, we could experience temporary disruptions in our
ability to deliver products to our customers which could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.


 22 






Our intellectual property rights
are critical to our success, the loss of such rights could materially adversely
affect our business.

We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our
business.  We also own the copyright in
and to portion of the content on the packaging of our products.  We regard our trademarks, copyrights, and
similar intellectual property as critical to our success and attempt to protect
such property with registered and common law trademarks and copyrights,
restrictions on disclosure and other actions to prevent infringement.  Product packages, mechanical designs and
artwork are important to our success and we take action to protect against
imitation of our packaging and trade dress and to protect our trademarks and
copyrights as necessary.  However, there
can be no assurance that other third parties will not infringe or
misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights.  If we lose some or all of our intellectual
property rights, our business may be materially adversely affected.

Significant changes in government
regulation may hinder sales.

The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of
our products is subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary
Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health
Act; various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local
statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale,
safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. New statutes
and regulations may also be instituted in the future. If a regulatory authority
finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance
with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or such products may have to be
recalled and/or reformulated and/or packaging changed, thus adversely affecting
our financial condition and operations. 
California law requires that a specific warning appear on any product
that contains a component listed by the State as having been found to cause
cancer or birth defects.  While none of
our beverage products are required to display warnings under this law, we
cannot predict whether an important component of any of our products might be
added to the California list in the future. 
We also are unable to predict whether or to what extent a warning under
this law would have an impact on costs or sales of our products.

If we are unable to maintain
brand image or product quality, or if we encounter product recalls, our
business may suffer.

Our success depends on our ability to maintain and build brand image
for our existing products, new products and brand extensions. We have no
assurance that our advertising, marketing and promotional programs will have
the desired impact on our products’ brand image and on consumer preferences.  Product quality issues, real or imagined, or
allegations of product contamination, even if fake or unfounded, could tarnish
the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other
products.  We may be required from time
to time to recall products entirely or from specific co-packers, markets or
batches.  Product recalls could adversely
affect our profitability and our brand image. 
We do not maintain recall insurance.

While we have to
date not experienced any credible product liability litigation, there is no
assurance that we will not experience such litigation in the future.  In the event we were to experience product
liability claims or a product recall, our financial condition and business
operations could be materially adversely effected.

If we do not maintain sufficient
inventory levels or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers
in sufficient quantities, or if our retailer’s inventory levels are too high,
our operating results will be adversely affected.

If we do not accurately
anticipate the future demand for a particular product or the time it will take
to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels will not be appropriate and our
results of operations 


 23 






may be negatively
impacted.  If we fail to meet our shipping
schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or
retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be
delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis,
we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products.  If the inventory of our products held by our
distributors and/or retailers is too high, they will not place orders for
additional products, which would unfavorably impact our future sales and
adversely affect our operating results.

If we are not able to retain the
full-time services of senior management there may be an adverse effect on our
operations and/or our operating performance until we find suitable
replacements.

Our business is dependent, to a large extent, upon the services of our
senior management.  We do not maintain
key person life insurance for any members of our senior management.  We currently have employment agreements with
Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg which end on December 31, 2008.  The loss of services of either of these
persons or any other key members of our senior management could adversely
affect our business until suitable replacements can be found.  There may be a limited number of personnel
with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to
locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms.

Weather could adversely affect
our supply chain and demand for our products.

With regard to fruit juice, fruit juice concentrates and natural
flavors, the beverage industry is subject to variability of weather conditions,
which may result in higher prices and/or the nonavailability of any of such
items.  Sales of our products may also be
influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate,
particularly in areas outside of California. 
Weather conditions may influence consumer demand for certain of our
beverages, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

Potential changes in accounting
practices and/or taxation may adversely affect our financial results.

We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting
standards or practices may have on our financial results.  New accounting standards could be issued that
could change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities.  These changes in accounting standards could
adversely affect our reported earnings. 
Increases in direct and indirect income tax rates could affect after tax
income.   Equally, increases in indirect
taxes (including environmental taxes pertaining to the disposal of beverage
containers) could affect our products’ affordability and reduce our sales.

Volatility of stock price may
restrict sale opportunities.

Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including
stockholder expectations, financial results, the introduction of new products
by us and our competitors, general economic and market conditions, estimates
and projections by the investment community and public comments by other
persons and many other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  We may be unable to achieve analysts’
earnings forecasts, which may be based on projected volumes and sales of many
product types and/or new products, certain of which are more profitable than
others.  There can be no assurance that
the Company will achieve projected levels or mixes of product sales. As a
result, our stock price is subject to significant volatility and stockholders
may not be able to sell our stock at attractive prices.

Provisions in our organizational
documents and control by insiders may prevent changes in control even if such
changes would be beneficial to other stockholders.

Our organizational documents may limit changes in control.  Furthermore, on May 16, 2007, Mr. Sacks and
Mr. Schlosberg together may be deemed to control a maximum of 21.8% of our
outstanding common stock.  Consequently,
Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg could exercise significant control on matters
submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including electing directors, amending
organizational documents and approving extraordinary transactions such as a
takeover attempt, even though such actions may be favorable to the other common
stockholders.


 24 






Our cash flow may not be
sufficient to fund our long term goals.

We may be unable
to generate sufficient cash flow to support our capital expenditure plans and
general operating activities.  In
addition, the terms and/or availability of our credit facility and/or the
activities of our creditors could affect the financing of our future growth.

Litigation or legal proceedings
could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our
financial results.

We are a party,
from time to time, to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, which
could adversely affect our financial results.

ITEM 1B