ITEM 1A.        RISK FACTORS

     In addition to the other  information in this report,  you should carefully
consider the following  risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our
business,  financial  condition  and/or  operating  results  could be materially
adversely affected.  The risk factors summarized below are not the only risks we
face.  Additional risks and  uncertainties  not currently known to us or that we
currently  deem to be  immaterial  also  may  materially  adversely  affect  our
business, financial condition and/or operating results.

Increased competition could hurt our business.

     The  beverage  industry  is  highly  competitive.  The  principal  areas of
competition are pricing, packaging,  development of new products and flavors and
marketing  campaigns.  Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced
by a relatively large number of manufacturers,  most of which have substantially
greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.

     Important  factors  affecting our ability to compete  successfully  include
taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective
development  of new,  unique  cutting edge  products,  attractive  and different
packaging,  branded product  advertising and pricing.  Our products compete with
all liquid  refreshments  and with  products  of much  larger and  substantially
better financed  competitors,  including the products of numerous nationally and
internationally  known  producers such as The Coca-Cola  Company,  Pepsico Inc.,
Cadbury Schweppes plc, Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods Inc., Nestle Beverage Company,
Tree Top and Ocean Spray.  We also compete  with  companies  that are smaller or
primarily  local in  operation.  Our products  also  compete with private  label
brands such as those carried by grocery store chains,  convenience store chains,
and  club  stores.  There  can  be no  assurance  that  we  will  not  encounter
difficulties in maintaining our current revenues or market share or position due
to competition in the beverage industry.  If our revenues decline, our business,
financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.

We  derive a  substantial  portion  of  revenues  from  our  energy  drinks  and
competitive  pressure in the "energy drink" category could adversely  affect our
operating results.

     A  substantial  portion of our sales are  derived  from our energy  drinks,
including in  particular  our Monster  Energy(R)  brand energy  drinks.  Our DSD
segment which comprises primarily energy drinks,  represented 77.4% of net sales
for the year ended  December 31, 2005.  Any decrease in the sales of our Monster
Energy(R) brand energy drinks could  significantly  adversely  affect our future
revenues  and  net  income.   Historically,   we  have  experienced  substantial
competition  from new entrants in the energy drink  category.  Our energy drinks
compete directly with Red Bull,  Adrenaline Rush, Amp,  Rockstar,  No Fear, Full
Throttle,  180, KMX, Venom,  Extreme Energy Shot, US energy,  Red Devil, Rip It,
Nos, Boo Koo, Lipovitan,  MET-Rx,  Hype, XTC, and many other brands. A number of
companies who market and distribute  iced teas and juice  cocktails in different
packages,  such  as 16 and  20-ounce  glass  bottles,  including  Sobe,  Snapple
Elements,  Arizona,  Fuse,  and Vitamin Water,  have added  supplements to their
products with a view to marketing  their  products as  "functional"  or "energy"
beverages or as having functional benefits. In addition, certain large companies
such as The Coca-Cola Company and Pepsico Inc. market and/or distribute products
in that market segment such as Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX, Vault, Adrenaline
Rush, Amp, No Fear, Full Throttle,  and Rockstar.  Competitive  pressures in the
energy drink  category  could impact our revenues or we could  experience  price
erosion or lower market share, any of which could have a material adverse affect
on our business and results.

Change in consumer preferences may reduce demand for some of our products.

     There is increasing  awareness and concern for the health  consequences  of
obesity.  This may reduce demand for our non-diet beverages,  which could affect
our profitability.

                                       18


     Consumers  are  seeking  greater  variety  in their  beverages.  Our future
success  will  depend,  in part,  upon our  continued  ability  to  develop  and
introduce different and innovative beverages.  In order to retain and expand our
market share, we must continue to develop and introduce different and innovative
beverages and be competitive in the areas of quality and health,  although there
can be no  assurance  of  our  ability  to do so.  There  is no  assurance  that
consumers  will  continue to purchase our products in the future.  Additionally,
many of our  products are  considered  premium  products and to maintain  market
share during  recessionary  periods we may have to reduce  profit  margins which
would adversely  affect our results of operations.  Product  lifecycles for some
beverage  brands and/or  products  and/or packages may be limited to a few years
before consumers'  preferences  change. The beverages we currently market are in
varying  stages of their  lifecycles  and there  can be no  assurance  that such
beverages  will become or remain  profitable  for us. The  beverage  industry is
subject to changing consumer  preferences and shifts in consumer preferences may
adversely affect us if we misjudge such preferences. We may be unable to achieve
volume growth through product and packaging  initiatives.  We also may be unable
to penetrate  new markets.  If our revenues  decline,  our  business,  financial
condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.

We rely on bottlers and other contract  packers to manufacture our products.  If
we are unable to maintain  good  relationships  with our  bottlers  and contract
packers and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes  constrained or
unavailable to us, our business could suffer.

     We do not directly  manufacture  our products,  but instead  outsource such
manufacturing  to bottlers and other contract  packers.  Although our production
arrangements are generally of short duration or are terminable upon request,  in
the event of a  disruption  or delay,  we may be unable to  procure  alternative
packing  facilities at commercially  reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably
short time period.  In addition,  there are limited  packing  facilities  in the
United States with adequate  capacity and/or suitable  equipment for many of our
products,  including  Hansen's(R)  brand energy drinks in 8.3-ounce and 16-ounce
cans, Gold Standard line, aseptic juice products, juices in 64-ounce PET plastic
bottles,  Energade(R),  Monster  Energy(R),  Lost(R),  Rumba(TM)  and  Joker Mad
Energy(TM)  energy  drinks  in 8.3,  15.5,  16,  and  24-ounce  cans,  sparkling
lemonades  and  orangeades  and other  products.  There are also limited  shrink
sleeve  labeling  facilities  available to us in the United States with adequate
capacity for our E2O Energy Water(R). A disruption or delay in production of any
of such products could  significantly  affect our revenues from such products as
alternative  co-packing  facilities in the United States with adequate  capacity
may not be available for such products either at commercially  reasonable rates,
and/or  within a  reasonably  short  time  period,  if at all.  Consequently,  a
disruption in production of such products could adversely affect our revenues.

We rely on bottlers and  distributors to distribute our DSD products.  If we are
unable to secure such bottlers and distributors and/or we are unable to maintain
good  relationships  with our existing bottlers and  distributors,  our business
could suffer.

     We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into
agreements  with regional  bottlers or other direct store delivery  distributors
having established sales, marketing and distribution organizations.  Many of our
bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture  and/or distribute
other soda and  non-carbonated  brands  and other  beverage  products  including
energy drinks. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.

     The marketing efforts of our distributors are important for our success. If
our DSD  brands  prove  to be  less  attractive  to our  existing  bottlers  and
distributors  and/or if we fail to attract additional bottlers and distributors,
and/or our bottlers  and/or  distributors do not market and promote our products
above the products of our  competitors,  our business,  financial  condition and
results of operations could be adversely affected.

                                       19


Our  customers  are material to our success.  If we are unable to maintain  good
relationships with our existing customers, our business could suffer.

     Unilateral decisions could be taken by our distributors, and/or convenience
chains, grocery chains,  specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers
to discontinue carrying all or any of the our products that they are carrying at
any time, which could cause our business to suffer.

     One customer  accounted for approximately 18% and 13% of the Companys sales
for the years  ended  December  31, 2005 and 2004,  respectively.  A decision by
that, or any other large  customer,  to decrease the amount  purchased  from the
Company or to cease carrying the Companys products could have a material adverse
effect  on  the  Companys  financial  condition  and  consolidated   results  of
operations.

     We  have  exclusive  contracts  with  the  State  of  California  ("State")
Department of Health Services,  Women, Infant and Children ("WIC")  Supplemental
Nutrition  Branch ("DHS") to supply 100% apple juice and 100% blended juice,  in
64-ounce PET plastic bottles. The contracts are each for a period of three years
with a further  one-year  extension option to be mutually agreed between Hansens
and the State of California.  The current contracts expire on July 11, 2007, and
we have no knowledge of whether the contracts will be extended for a further one
year,  or whether we will be successful in securing any new future WIC contracts
with the State. If we are unsuccessful in securing new future WIC contracts with
the State,  our  revenues  from those  products  could be  materially  adversely
affected.

Increases  in cost or  shortages  of raw  materials  or  increases  in  costs of
co-packing could harm our business.

     The  principal  raw  materials  used by us comprise  aluminum  cans,  glass
bottles and PET plastic  bottles as well as juices,  high  fructose  corn syrup,
sucrose and sucralose,  the costs of which are subject to  fluctuations.  Due to
the consolidations that have taken place in the glass industry over the past few
years,  the prices of glass  bottles  continue  to  increase.  The prices of PET
plastic  bottles and aluminum  cans  increased in 2005 and may increase in 2006.
The prices of high fructose corn syrup,  sucrose and certain juice  concentrates
have also  increased  during the year,  particularly  apple  concentrate.  These
increased  costs,  together with increased costs primarily of energy and gas and
freight resulted in increases in certain product costs which are ongoing and are
expected  to  continue  to exert  pressure  on our  gross  margins  in 2006.  In
addition,  certain of our co-pack arrangements allow such co-packers to increase
their  charges  based on certain of their own cost  increases.  We are uncertain
whether the prices of any of the above or any other raw materials or ingredients
will  continue  to rise in the future and whether we will be able to pass any of
such increases on to our customers.

     In addition,  some of these raw materials,  such as a sucralose and certain
sizes of cans,  are available  from a limited  number of  suppliers.  Sucralose,
which is used in the Company's  low-calorie  products, is purchased by us from a
single  manufacturer.  The  supplier  of  sucralose  has  notified  us that  our
purchases of sucralose during 2006 will be subject to volume  limitations due to
demand for sucralose exceeding  production  capacity.  While we believe that our
2006 sucralose  volume  allocation will be sufficient to meet the demand for our
products that contain  sucralose,  we may need to  reformulate  certain of those
products that contain  sucralose with alternative  sweetener systems to avoid an
interruption in supply of those products, should the need arise.

     We may not  correctly  estimate  demand for our  products.  Our  ability to
estimate demand for our products is imprecise,  particularly  with new products,
and may be less precise  during  periods of rapid  growth,  particularly  in new
markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to
secure sufficient  ingredients or raw materials  including,  but not limited to,
glass, PET plastic  bottles,  cans,  labels,  sucralose,  flavors,  supplements,
certain  sweeteners,  or packing  arrangements,  we might not be able to satisfy
demand on a short-term basis. Moreover, industry-wide shortages of certain juice
concentrates,  supplements and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time
in  the  future,  be  experienced,  which  could  interfere  with  and/or  delay
production of certain of our products and could have a material  adverse  effect
on our business  and  financial  results.  We do not use hedging  agreements  or
alternative instruments to manage this risk.

                                       20


The costs of packaging supplies are subject to price increases from time to time
and we may be  unable  to pass  all or some of such  increased  costs  on to our
customers.

     The majority of our  packaging  supplies  contracts  allow our suppliers to
alter the costs they charge us for  packaging  supplies  based on changes in the
costs of the  underlying  commodities  that are used to produce those  packaging
supplies,  such as resin for PET bottles and aluminum for cans. These changes in
the prices we pay for our  packaging  supplies  occur at  certain  predetermined
times  that  vary by  product  and  supplier.  Accordingly,  we bear the risk of
increases in the costs of these  packaging  supplies,  including the  underlying
costs of the commodities that comprise these packaging  supplies.  We do not use
derivative  instruments  to manage  this  risk.  If the cost of these  packaging
supplies  increase,  we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers
through  corresponding  adjustments to the prices we charge,  which could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.

We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key flavor suppliers.  If we are
unable to source our  flavors on  acceptable  terms from our key  suppliers,  we
could suffer disruptions in our business.

     Generally,  flavor suppliers hold the proprietary  rights to their flavors.
Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors
and certain of our concentrates  readily available to us and we may be unable to
obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice.
Industry-wide   shortages  of  certain  juice   concentrates,   supplements  and
sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the future, be experienced,
which could  interfere with and/or delay  production of certain of our products.
If we  have  to  replace  a  flavor  supplier,  we  could  experience  temporary
disruptions in our ability to deliver products to our customers which could have
a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Our intellectual  property rights are critical to our success,  the loss of such
rights could materially adversely affect our business.

     We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business. We also
own the  copyright  in and to portion of the  content  on the  packaging  of our
products.  We  regard  our  trademarks,  copyrights,  and  similar  intellectual
property as critical to our success and attempt to protect  such  property  with
registered and common law trademarks and copyrights,  restrictions on disclosure
and other actions to prevent infringement.  Product packages, mechanical designs
and artwork are  important to our success and we take action to protect  against
imitation of our  packaging  and trade dress and to protect our  trademarks  and
copyrights as  necessary.  However,  there can be no assurance  that other third
parties  will  not  infringe  or  misappropriate   our  trademarks  and  similar
proprietary rights. If we lose some or all of our intellectual  property rights,
our business may be materially adversely affected.

Significant changes in government regulation may hinder sales.

     The production,  distribution  and sale in the United States of many of our
products is subject to the Federal  Food,  Drug and  Cosmetic  Act;  the Dietary
Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational  Safety and Health
Act; various environmental  statutes; and various other federal, state and local
statutes and  regulations  applicable to the production,  transportation,  sale,
safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. New statutes and
regulations  may also be  instituted  in the future.  If a regulatory  authority
finds that a current or future  product or  production  run is not in compliance
with any of these regulations,  we may be fined, or such products may have to be
recalled and/or reformulated and/or packaging changed,  thus adversely affecting
our financial condition and operations.  California law requires that a specific
warning  appear on any product that contains a component  listed by the State as
having been found to cause cancer or birth  defects.  While none of our beverage
products  are  required to display  warnings  under this law, we cannot  predict
whether an  important  component  of any of our  products  might be added to the
California list in the future.  We also are unable to predict whether or to what
extent a warning  under  this law would  have an impact on costs or sales of our
products.

                                      21


If we are unable to maintain brand image or product quality,  or if we encounter
product recalls, our business may suffer.

     Our success  depends on our  ability to maintain  and build brand image for
our existing products,  new products and brand extensions.  We have no assurance
that our advertising,  marketing and promotional  programs will have the desired
impact on our products' brand image and on consumer preferences. Product quality
issues, real or imagined, or allegations of product contamination,  even if fake
or  unfounded,  could  tarnish  the image of the  affected  brands and may cause
consumers  to choose  other  products.  We may be required  from time to time to
recall  products  entirely  or from  specific  co-packers,  markets or  batches.
Product recalls could adversely affect our profitability and our brand image. We
do not maintain recall insurance.

     While  we have to date  not  experienced  any  credible  product  liability
litigation, there is no assurance that we will not experience such litigation in
the future.  In the event we were to experience  product  liability  claims or a
product  recall,  our  financial  condition  and  business  operations  could be
materially adversely effected.

If we are not able to retain the full-time  services of senior management it may
have an adverse effect on our operations and/or our operating  performance until
we find suitable replacements.

     Our  business is  dependent,  to a large  extent,  upon the services of our
senior management.  We do not maintain key person life insurance for any members
of our senior management. We currently have employment agreements with Mr. Sacks
and Mr.  Schlosberg  which end on  December  31,  2008.  The loss of services of
either of these persons or any other key members of our senior  management could
adversely affect our business until a suitable  replacements can be found. There
may be a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these
positions and we may be unable to locate or employ such  qualified  personnel on
acceptable terms.

Weather could adversely affect our supply chain and demand for our products.

     With regard to fruit juice,  fruit juice  concentrates and natural flavors,
the beverage industry is subject to variability of weather conditions, which may
result in higher prices and/or the  nonavailability  of any of such items. Sales
of our products may also be influenced  to some extent by weather  conditions in
the markets in which we operate,  particularly  in areas outside of  California.
Weather  conditions may influence  consumer demand for certain of our beverages,
which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

Potential  changes in accounting  practices and/or taxation may adversely affect
our financial results.

     We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or
practices may have on our financial results.  New accounting  standards could be
issued  that  could  change  the way we record  revenues,  expenses,  assets and
liabilities.  These changes in accounting  standards could adversely  affect our
reported  earnings.  Increases  in direct and  indirect  income tax rates  could
affect  after tax  income.  Equally,  increases  in  indirect  taxes  (including
environmental  taxes  pertaining to the disposal of beverage  containers)  could
affect our products' affordability and reduce our sales.

Volatility of Stock Price may restrict sale opportunities.

                                       22


     Our stock price is affected by a number of factors,  including  stockholder
expectations,  financial results, the introduction of new products by us and our
competitors,  general economic and market conditions,  estimates and projections
by the investment  community and public comments by other persons and many other
factors,  many of which are  beyond  our  control.  We may be unable to  achieve
analysts earnings  forecasts,  which may be based on projected volumes and sales
of many product types and/or new products,  certain of which are more profitable
than others.  There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve  projected
levels or mixes of product  sales.  As a result,  our stock  price is subject to
significant  volatility  and  stockholders  may not be able to sell our stock at
attractive prices.

Provisions in our  organizational  documents and control by insiders may prevent
changes  in  control  even  if  such  changes   would  be  beneficial  to  other
stockholders.

     Our organizational documents may limit changes in control.  Furthermore, at
February  10,  2006,  Mr.  Sacks and Mr.  Schlosberg  together  may be deemed to
control a maximum of 21.2% of our outstanding  common stock.  Consequently,  Mr.
Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg could exercise significant control on matters submitted
to  a  vote  of  our  stockholders,   including  electing  directors,   amending
organizational  documents and  approving  extraordinary  transactions  such as a
takeover attempt,  even though such actions may be favorable to the other common
stockholders.

Our cash flow may not be sufficient to fund our long term goals.

     We may be unable to  generate  sufficient  cash flow to support our capital
expenditure  plans and general  operating  activities.  In  addition,  the terms
and/or  availability  of  our  credit  facility  and/or  the  activities  of our
creditors could affect the financing of our future growth.

Litigation or legal proceedings  could expose us to significant  liabilities and
thus negatively affect our financial results.

     We are a party,  from time to time, to various  litigation claims and legal
proceedings, which could adversely affect our financial results.

ITEM 1B