Item 1A – Risk Factors” below.
 
2010 Product Introductions
 
During 2010, we continued to expand our existing product lines and flavors and further develop our distribution markets.  In particular, we continued to focus on developing and marketing beverages that fall within the category generally described as the “alternative” beverage category, with particular emphasis on energy type drinks. During 2010, we introduced the following products:
 



·    

Monster Energy®   Import Light energy drinks, which are packaged in 18.6-ounce Re-sealable End   (“BRE”) aluminum cans (May 2010).       


·    

Monster Energy®   Absolutely Zero energy drinks, which are carbonated and contain zero calories   and zero sugar, and are packaged in 16-ounce aluminum cans (July 2010).       


·    

Monster Energy®   “Dub Edition” energy drinks, which are packaged in 18.6-ounce BRE aluminum   cans (May 2010).       


·    

Monster Energy®   Extra Strength Nitrous Technology energy drink – Black Ice which is   carbonated and contains zero calories, packaged in 12-ounce sleek aluminum   cap-cans (November 2010).       


·    

X-Presso   Monster™ Coffee Energy Drinks – non-carbonated dairy based espresso + energy   drinks, which are packaged in 9.6-ounce aluminum cans (November 2010).       


·    

Worx Energy™ energy shots, which contains zero calories and zero   sugar, and are packaged in 2-ounce wide-mouth polyethylene terephthalate   (“PET”) plastic bottles (October 2010).       


·    

Monster Energy®   M3 Super Concentrate, super-concentrated energy drinks, which are packaged in   5-ounce glass bottles (November 2010).       


·    

Admiral™ Iced   Teas, a new line of ready-to-drink iced teas, which are packaged in 23-ounce   aluminum cans (March 2010).         
 
5






 



·    

Blue Sky® Shots,   natural functional shots, which are packaged in 2.5-ounce PET plastic bottles   (March 2010).       


·    

Hubert’s™   Lemonades, a line of ready-to-drink premium lemonades sweetened with cane   sugar and Truvia™ brand stevia extract, an all natural sweetener, which are   packaged in 16-ounce glass bottles (August 2010).       


·    

Hansen’s®   Natural Fruit and Tea Stix™, a line of all-natural, low-calorie powdered   drink mixes, which are packaged in single-serve stick packs   (February 2010).         
 
Products – DSD Segment
 
Monster Energy® Drinks – In 2002, we launched a new carbonated energy drink under the Monster Energy® brand name in 16-ounce cans, which was almost double the size of our original Hansen’s® brand energy drinks (in 8.3-ounce cans) and the vast majority of competitive energy drinks on the market at that time. Our Monster Energy® drinks contain different types and levels of supplements than our Hansen’s® energy drinks and are marketed through our full service distributor network. We offer the following products under the Monster Energy® brand energy drink product line: Monster Energy®, lo-carb Monster Energy®, Monster Energy® Assault®, Monster Energy® Khaos™, Monster Energy® M-80™ (named “RIPPER
48; in certain countries), Monster Energy® Heavy Metal™, Monster Energy® MIXXD™, Monster Energy® Absolutely Zero, Monster Energy® Import and Import Light, Monster Energy® Dub Edition,  Monster Rehab™ and Monster Energy® M3 Super Concentrate. We package our Monster Energy® drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 12-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 23.5-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml and/or 18.6-ounce aluminum cans and/or 5-ounce and/or 500ml glass bottles.
 
Java Monster™ Coffee + Energy Drinks - a line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee + energy drinks. We offer the following products under the Java Monster™ product line: Java Monster™ Kona Blend, Java Monster™ Loca Moca®, Java Monster™ Mean Bean®, Java Monster™ Vanilla Light, Java Monster™ Irish Blend™ and Java Monster™ Toffee. We package our Java Monster™ coffee + energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum cans.
 
Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™ Energy Drinks - a line of carbonated energy drinks containing nitrous oxide. We offer the following products under the Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™  product line: Super Dry, Anti Gravity, Killer-B and Black Ice. We package our Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™  drinks in 12-ounce sleek aluminum cap-cans.
 
X-Presso Monster™ Coffee Energy Drinks – a line of non-carbonated dairy based espresso + energy drinks in 6.75-ounce and/or 9.6-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the following products under the X-Presso Monster™ coffee energy drinks product line: Hammer and Midnite.
 
Worx Energy™ Energy Shots – In October 2010, we introduced Worx Energy™ energy shots, an energy supplement which contains zero calories and zero sugar in 2-ounce wide-mouth PET plastic bottles. We offer the following products under the Worx Energy™ Supplement product line: Original Formula and Extra Strength.
 
Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™ - a line of energy shooters in 3-ounce PET plastic bottles. We offer the following products under the Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™ product line: Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™, Monster LOBO Energy Shooter™ and Monster Sniper Energy Shooter™.  We are in the process of discontinuing this product line.
 
Peace Tea™ - a line of ready-to-drink iced teas in 23-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the following products under the Peace Tea™ product line: green tea, diet green tea, imported Ceylon tea, sweet lemon tea, razzleberry tea, unsweetened tea and “Caddy Shack” tea + lemonade (being introduced in the first quarter of 2011).
 
6






 
Products – Warehouse Segment
 
Hansen’s Natural Sodas® - Hansen’s Natural Sodas® have been a leading natural soda brand in Southern California for more than 30 years. Hansen’s Natural Sodas®, sweetened with cane sugar, and Hansen’s® Diet Sodas, sweetened with Splenda® and Acesulfame-K, contain no preservatives, no sodium, no caffeine and no artificial coloring. We offer the following sodas under the Hansen’s® brand name:  Hansen’s Natural Sodas®, Hansen’s® Diet Sodas in a variety of flavors and Hansen’s® Natural Mixers. We package our natural sodas in 12-ounce and/or 16-ounce aluminum cans.
 
Blue Sky® Products - Our Blue Sky® products contain no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, caffeine (other than the energy drinks) or artificial coloring and are made with sugar and high quality natural flavors. We offer the following products under the Blue Sky® product line: Blue Sky® Natural Sodas, Blue Sky® Free Sodas, Blue Sky® Premium Sodas, Blue Sky® Organic Natural Sodas, Blue Sky® Seltzer Water, Blue Sky® Blue Energy® drink and Blue Sky® Café Energy. In March 2010, we launched Blue Sky® Shots, natural functional shots, which are packaged in 2.5-ounce PET plastic bottles. In September 2010, we introduced a Blue Sky® Free Blue Energy® drink, a new natural, zero calorie energy drink sweetened with Truvia&#
153; brand stevia extract, an all natural sweetener. We package our Blue Sky® Sodas and seltzer waters in 12-ounce aluminum cans. We package our Blue Sky® Café energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum cans. We package our Blue Sky® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 16-ounce aluminum cans and/or bag-in-box.
 
Hansen’s® Energy Drinks - Our Hansen’s® energy drinks compete in the “functional” beverage category, namely, beverages that provide a real or perceived benefit in addition to simply delivering refreshment. Our Hansen’s® energy drinks contain vitamins, minerals, nutrients, herbs and supplements (collectively, “supplements”). We market our Hansen’s® brand energy drinks through the Warehouse segment. We offer the following products under the Hansen’s® energy drink product line: Hansen’s® Energy Pro and Hansen’s® Energy Diet Red.  We package our Hansen’s® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce aluminum cans.
 
Juice Products and Smoothies  - Our fruit juice product line includes Hansen’s® Natural Apple Juice, which is packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles and 128-ounce High Density Polyethylene bottles; as well as Hansen’s® Natural Grape Juice, White Grape Juice, Pineapple Juice, Apple Grape Juice, Apple Strawberry Juice, Orange Juice, Cranberry-Apple Juice, Ruby Red Grapefruit Juice, and Organic Apple Juice, which are all packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles. These Hansen’s® juice products contain 100% juice as well as 120% of the United States Recommended Daily Allowances (the “USRDA”) for Vitamin C. We also offer Hansen’s® Natural Lo-Cal juice cocktails, a line of all natural, lo
w-calorie 64-ounce juice cocktails in four flavors. The Lo-Cal juice cocktails are sweetened with Truvia™ brand stevia extract, an all natural sweetener. Hansen’s® juice products compete in the shelf-stable juice category.
 
Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies contain approximately 25% juice and provide 100% of the USRDA for adults of Vitamins A, C & E, and represented Hansen’s® entry, in 1995, into what is commonly referred to as the “functional” beverage category. Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies are packaged in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans.
 
Juices for Children - Our Juice Blast® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks is a dual-branded 100% juice line which was launched in conjunction with Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”) and is sold through Costco stores. Our Juice Slam™ line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks is a 100% juice line, which we market to other customers. Both the Juice Blast® and Juice Slam™ lines of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks contain eleven essential vitamins and six essential minerals, are packaged in 6.75-ounce aseptic boxes and are available in a variety of flavors.
 
7






 
Our Hansen’s® Junior Juice® product line is a 100% juice line offered in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages and is targeted at toddlers and preschoolers. Most flavors in the Junior Juice® line have calcium added and all flavors contain 100% of the daily recommended allowance of Vitamin C. We extended the Junior Juice® line by adding organic juice products in 4.23-ounce aseptic boxes. We also market Hansen’s® Organic Junior Water™, a lightly flavored reduced calorie beverage for toddlers, also packaged in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages.
 
Hansen’s® Iced Teas - a line of iced teas in sleek 16-ounce wide mouth PET plastic bottles. We offer a number of varieties sweetened with cane sugar as well as sugar free and unsweetened varieties.
 
Hubert’s™ Lemonade – In August 2010, we introduced Hubert’s™ Lemonade, a line of premium ready-to-drink lemonades packaged in 16-ounce glass bottles. Hubert’s™ is sweetened with cane sugar and Truvia™ brand stevia extract, an all natural sweetener. Hubert’s™ Lemonade is all natural and contains no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, caffeine, or artificial coloring. We offer the following products under the Hubert’s™ Lemonade product line: mango lemonade, honey lemonade, raspberry lemonade and original lemonade.
 
Admiral™ Iced Teas - In March 2010, we introduced Admiral™ Iced Teas, a line of ready-to-drink iced teas packaged in 24-ounce aluminum cans. Admiral ™ Iced Teas are sweetened with high fructose corn syrup and Splenda®.  Admiral™ Iced Teas contains all natural flavors and contain no preservatives or artificial coloring.  We offer the following products under the Admiral™ Iced Tea product line: raspberry, lemon, mango and green tea.
 
SELF Beauty Elixir™ by Hansen’s® - a line of low-calorie, functional, ready-to-drink beauty beverages infused with an essential blend of vitamins, minerals, natural fruit & botanical extracts with antioxidants, packaged in 8-ounce slim aluminum cans.
 
Hansen’s® Natural Fruit and Tea Stix™ - In February 2010, we introduced the Fruit and Tea Stix™ product line, an all-natural, low-calorie powder drink mix, sweetened naturally with Truvia™ brand stevia extract, an all natural sweetener. Hansen’s® Natural Fruit and Tea Stix™ are packaged in 4-gram slim stick packs.
 
Bottled Water - Our still water product is sold in 0.5-liter plastic bottles, primarily to the food service trade. Sales of this product line are very limited.
 
Lost® Energy™ Drinks - a line of carbonated energy drinks under the Lost® brand name. The Lost® brand name is owned by Lost International, LLC and the drinks are produced, sold and distributed by us under an exclusive license from Lost International, LLC. We offer the following products under the Lost® Energy™ brand energy drink product line: Lost® and Lost® Perfect 10™.  We package our Lost® Energy™ drinks in 16-ounce and/or 24-ounce aluminum cans.
 
Energy Juices - a line of non-carbonated energy juices under the Rumba®, Samba and Tango brand names. Our energy juices are 100% juice products that target male and female morning beverage consumers and are positioned as a substitute for coffee, caffeinated sodas and 100% orange or other juices. We package our energy juices in 15.5-ounce aluminum cans.
 
8






 
Vidration® - a zero calorie, vitamin enhanced water line under the Vidration® brand name packaged in 20-ounce PET plastic bottles. We offer the following products under the Vidration® brand product line: Defense, Recover, Energy, Multi – V and Power.
 
Other Products
 
We continue to evaluate and, where considered appropriate, introduce additional flavors and types of beverages to complement our existing product lines. We will also evaluate, and may, where considered appropriate, introduce “functional” foods/snack foods that utilize similar channels of distribution and/or are complementary to our existing products and/or to which our brand names are able to add value.
 
We also develop and supply, on a limited basis, selected beverages in different formats to a limited number of customers with the objective of solidifying and/or enhancing our relationship with those customers.
 
Manufacture and Distribution
 
We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource the manufacturing process to third party bottlers and contract packers.
 
We purchase concentrates, juices, flavors, supplements, cans, bottles, aseptic boxes, aseptic pouches, caps, labels, trays, boxes and other ingredients for our beverage products from our suppliers, which are delivered to our various third party bottlers and co-packers. Depending on the product, the third party bottlers or packers add filtered water and/or other ingredients and supplements for the manufacture and packaging of the finished products into our approved containers in accordance with our formulas. In the case of sodas and other carbonated beverages, the bottler/packer adds carbonation to the products as part of the production process.
 
Co-Packing Arrangements
 
We are generally responsible for arranging for the purchase of and delivery to our third party bottlers and co-packers of the containers in which our beverage products are packaged.
 
All of our beverage products are manufactured by various third party bottlers and co-packers situated throughout the United States and abroad, under separate arrangements with each party. The majority of our co-packaging arrangements are on a month-to-month basis.  However, certain of our co-packing arrangements are described below:
 
(a)       Our agreement with Cold Springs Brewing Company, formerly Gluek Brewing Company (“Cold Springs”), pursuant to which Cold Springs packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues indefinitely, unless terminated by either party in writing upon ninety (90) days prior notice.
 
(b)       Our agreement with  Carolina Beer & Beverage  (“Carolina”) pursuant to which Carolina packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues until April 2011 and is automatically extended  for additional periods of one (1) year each, unless either party notifies the other in writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the last day of the then current term.
 
(c)       Our agreement with Safeway, Inc. (“Safeway”) pursuant to which Safeway packages certain of our energy drinks and Hansen’s Natural Sodas®. This contract continues until March 2011 and is automatically renewed annually thereafter, unless terminated by either party upon six (6) months written notice.
 
9






 
(d)       Our agreement with Dairy Farmers of America, Inc. (“DFA”) pursuant to which DFA packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues until March 2011 and is automatically renewed for consecutive one (1) year periods, subject to mutually agreeable pricing, unless either party provides notice of cancellation at least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the initial term or subsequent extension period. Further, either party may terminate this agreement at its sole discretion at any time by providing the other party with one hundred eighty (180) days prior written notification specifying the date of termination.
 
(e)       Our agreement with the American Bottling Co. (“American”) pursuant to which American packages certain of our energy drinks. This is automatically renewed for additional terms of one (1) month, unless terminated by either party at least thirty (30) days prior to the last day of the then current term.
 
(f)         Our agreement with Giumarra & Associates Beverage Company (“Giumarra”) pursuant to which Giumarra packages certain of our energy drinks and juices.  This contract continues until June 2011 and is automatically extended for additional periods of one (1) year, unless either party notifies the other in writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the last day of the then current term.
 
(g)       Our agreement with Pri-Pak, Inc. (“Pri-Pak”) pursuant to which Pri-Pak packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues indefinitely but may be terminated at any time by either party by giving ninety (90) days prior written notice.
 
(h)       Our agreement with O-AT-KA Milk Products Cooperative (“O-AT-KA”) pursuant to which O-AT-KA packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues until September 2011 and is automatically renewable for consecutive one (1) year periods, subject to mutually agreeable pricing, unless either party provides notice of cancellation at least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the initial term or subsequent extension period.
 
(i)           Our agreement with Coca Cola Bottling Company-Canada (“CCBCC”) pursuant to which CCBCC packages certain of our energy drinks.  This contract continues through February 2012 and is automatically extended for additional terms of one (1) year each unless terminated by either party upon ninety (90) days written notice.
 
(j)           Our agreement with DIS Contractfilling BV (“DIS”) pursuant to which DIS packages certain of our energy drinks.  This contract continues through January 2013 and is automatically extended for an additional term of three (3) years, unless either party notifies the other in writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the then current term.
 
(k)       Our agreement with Whitlock Packaging (“Whitlock”) pursuant to which Whitlock packages certain of our energy drinks.  This contract continues through January 1, 2012 and is automatically extended for additional terms of one (1) year each unless terminated by either party upon one hundred eighty (180) days written notice.
 
In certain instances, equipment is purchased by us and installed at the facilities of our co-packers to enable them to produce certain of our products. In general, such equipment remains our property and is either returned to us upon termination of the packing arrangements with such co-packers or is amortized over a pre-determined number of cases that are to be produced at the facilities concerned.
 
10







 
We pack certain of our products in a number of locations both domestically and internationally, including in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Europe and Australia, to enable us to produce products closer to the markets where they are sold and thereby reduce freight costs. As distribution volumes increase in both our domestic and international markets, we continue to secure additional packing arrangements closer to such markets to further reduce freight costs. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products and/or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to PET plastic bottles, aseptic boxes, cans, glass, labels, flavors, juice concentrates, supp
lement ingredients and certain sweeteners, and/or procure adequate packing arrangements and/or obtain adequate or timely shipment of our products, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. (See “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors”).
 
Although our production arrangements are generally of short duration or are terminable upon our request, we believe a short disruption or delay would not significantly affect our revenues because alternative packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity can usually be obtained for many of our products at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. However, there are limited packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for certain of our products, including Monster Energy®, Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™, X-Presso Monster™, Monster Energy® Import and Import Light, Monster Energy® Dub Edition, Worx Energy™ energy shots, Monster Rehab™, Rumba®, Samba and Tango energy juice drinks, o
ur Java Monster™ product line and our aseptic juice products. A disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues from such products as alternative co-packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity may not be available for such products either at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products could affect our revenues. We continue to seek alternative and/or additional co-packing facilities in the United States, Canada, Australia, Brazil, the United Kingdom and Europe with adequate capacity for the production of our various products to minimize the risk of a disruption in production.
 
Distribution Agreements
 
Certain of our distribution agreements are described below:
 
(a)       During the second quarter of 2006, we entered into the Monster Beverages Off-Premise Distribution Coordination Agreement and the Allied Products Distribution Coordination Agreement (jointly, the “Off-Premise Agreements”) with Anheuser-Busch, Inc., a Missouri corporation (“AB”). Under the Off-Premise Agreements, select Anheuser-Busch distributors (the “AB Distributors”) distribute and sell, in markets designated by us, our Monster Energy® and Lost® EnergyTM brands non-alcoholic energy drinks and Rumba®, Samba and Tango brand energy juices, as well as additional 
products that may be agreed between the parties.
 
(b)       During the first quarter of 2007, we entered into the On-Premise Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “On-Premise Agreement”) with AB. Under the On-Premise Agreement, AB manages and coordinates the sale, distribution and merchandising of Monster Energy® energy drinks to on-premise retailers including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in territories approved by us.
 
11






 
(c)       During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC North American Coordination Agreement”) with The Coca-Cola Company (“TCCC”). Pursuant to the TCCC North American Coordination Agreement, we have designated, and in the future may designate, territories in North America in which bottlers from TCCC’s network of wholly or partially owned and independent bottlers, including Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (“CCE”) (now Coca-Cola Refreshments USA, Inc. (“CCR”)), Coca-Cola Bottling Company (“CCBC”), CCBCC Operations, LLC (“Consolidated”), United Bottling Contracts Company, LLC (“United”), and other 
TCCC independent bottlers (collectively, the “TCCC North American Bottlers”) will distribute and sell primarily our Monster Energy® beverages (the “Products”) in the United States and Canada.
 
(d)       During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Distribution Agreement with CCE (now CCR) pursuant to which CCE was appointed to distribute, directly and through certain sub-distributors, the Products in portions of twenty-four U.S. states (the “U.S. Territories”). We may designate additional territories within reasonable proximity to the U.S. Territories and CCE (now CCR) will use reasonable good faith efforts to add the additional territories. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Canadian Distribution Agreement with CCBC (now Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada, Ltd. (“CCRC”)), pursuant to which CCBC was appointed to distribute, directly and through certain sub-distr
ibutors, the Products in Canada, with performance commencing on January 1, 2009. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into distribution agreements with Consolidated, United and other TCCC North American Bottlers for the distribution of the Products in various territories within the United States.
 
(e)       On October 2, 2010, TCCC completed its acquisition of the North American business operations of CCE, through a merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of TCCC. The surviving wholly owned subsidiary was subsequently renamed CCR, and currently distributes the Products in those portions of the United States in which CCE previously distributed the Products. Concurrently with this acquisition, a new entity, which retained the name Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (“New CCE”) was formed, which currently distributes the Products in certain foreign territories (see (g) below).
 
(f)         During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy International Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC International Coordination Agreement”) with TCCC. Pursuant to the TCCC International Coordination Agreement, we have designated, and in the future may designate, countries in which we wish to appoint TCCC distributors to distribute and sell the Products.
 
(g)       During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy International Distribution Agreement and the Monster Energy Belgium Distribution Agreement with CCE (now New CCE) pursuant to which CCE was appointed to distribute directly, and through certain sub-distributors, the Products in Great Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Monaco. During the first quarter of 2011, Sweden was added to the Monster Energy International Distribution Agreement.
 
(h)       During 2010, the Company entered into distribution agreements with certain bottlers of the Coca-Cola Hellenic group (“Coca-Cola Hellenic”) for distribution of its Monster Energy® products in Austria, Bulgaria, Czech-Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and Switzerland.
 
(i)           During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into a distribution agreement with Comercializadora Eloro, S.A., a subsidiary of Grupo Jumex (“Jumex”), for exclusive distribution throughout Mexico, excluding the Baja and Sonora regions, of our Monster Energy® and Monster Energy® KhaosTM energy drinks as well as select Java MonsterTM product line drinks. Distribution under this agreement commenced January 26, 2009. Effective June 11, 2010
, this agreement was amended to include the Baja and Sonora regions.
 
12






 
(j)           During the second quarter of 2009, we entered into a distribution agreement with Schweppes Australia Pty Ltd. for exclusive distribution throughout Australia of certain of our Monster Energy® energy drinks. Distribution under this agreement commenced in July 2009.
 
Distribution levels vary by product and geographic location. Gross sales outside the United States accounted for $240.6 million, $168.0 million and $94.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery distributors with established sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other beverage products. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.
 
During 2010, we continued to expand distribution of our products in both the domestic and international markets, and our Monster Energy® drinks are now sold in more than 57 countries and territories around the world. We expanded our sales force to support and grow sales, primarily of our Monster Energy® drinks, our Java Monster™ product line, our Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™ product line and our X-Presso Monster™ energy drinks.
 
Raw Materials and Suppliers
 
The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products are aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk, cream and supplements, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. Overall prices of such raw materials increased in 2010 as compared to 2009 and are continuing to increase in 2011. We have secured a large portion of our anticipated 2011 requirements of apple juice concentrate at prices similar to those incurred in 2010. Sugar prices were higher in 2010 than 2009 and are continuing to increase. We have secured a large portion of our sugar requirements for 2011. Commodity prices in general have increased and are continuing to show volatility, partially as a result of the unrest in North Africa and the Middle East region. We are experiencing increased costs of aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles and fuel, as well 
as increased costs of certain juice concentrates, certain supplements and other incredients in 2011.
 
We purchase beverage flavors, concentrates, juices, supplements, cane sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as well as other ingredients from independent suppliers located in the United States and abroad.
 
Generally, raw materials utilized by us in our business are readily available from numerous sources. However, certain raw materials are manufactured by only one company.  We purchase sucralose, which is used alone or in combination with Acesulfame-K in our low-calorie products, flavors, vitamin blends and herbs, certain other supplements, as well as certain other ingredients, from single manufacturers. Additionally, certain of our cans and flavors are only manufactured by single companies.
 
With regard to our Java MonsterTM product line, the dairy industry is subject to shortages and increased demand from time to time, which may result in higher prices.
 
With regard to our fruit juice and juice-drink products, the industry is subject to variability of demand and weather conditions, which may result in higher prices and/or lower consumer demand for juices.
 
Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors.  Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. We have identified alternative suppliers for many of the ingredients contained in many of our beverages. However, industry-wide shortages of certain fruits and fruit juices, coffee, tea, supplements and sweeteners have been, and could from time to time in the future be, encountered, which could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products.
 
13






 
We continually endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for certain of our flavors and concentrates as well as to negotiate arrangements with suppliers which would enable us to obtain access to certain concentrates or flavor formulas in certain circumstances. We have been partially successful in these endeavors. Additionally, in a limited number of cases, contractual restrictions and/or the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals and licenses may limit our ability to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers and manufacturers and/or distributors.
 
In connection with the development of new products and flavors, independent suppliers bear a large portion of the expense of product development, thereby enabling us to develop new products and flavors at a relatively low cost. We have historically developed and successfully introduced new products, flavors and packaging for our products and intend to continue developing and introducing additional new beverages, flavors and innovative packaging.
 
Competition
 
The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and marketing campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.
 
Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development and marketing of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising, and pricing. We also compete for distributors who will provide our products with more focus than those of our competitors, provide stable and reliable distribution and secure adequate shelf space in retail outlets. Competitive pressures in the “alternative”, energy, coffee and “functional” beverage categories could cause our products to be unable to gain or to lose market share or we could experience price erosion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results.
 
We have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the energy drink and energy shot categories. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in larger volume packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Snapple, Arizona and Fuse, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits. We believe that many of those products contain lower levels of supplements and principally deliver refreshment. In addition, many competitive products are positioned differently from our energy or “functional” drinks. Our smoothies and certain of our teas are positioned more closely against those products.
 
We compete not only for consumer preference, but also for maximum marketing efforts by multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors, many of which have a principal affiliation with competing companies and brands. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Inc. (“PepsiCo”), The Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the “DPS Group”), Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods, Inc., Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and Ocean Spray. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local in operation. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.

 
14






 
Domestically, our energy drinks, including Monster Energy®, Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous Technology™, Hansen’s® Energy, Diet Red Energy®, Lost® Energy™ and Rumba®, Samba and Tango energy juice in 8.3-ounce and/or 15.5-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml and/or 18.6-ounce aluminum cans and/or 5-ounce and/or 500ml glass bottles, our Worx Energy™ energy shots and our Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™’s, compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, 5-Hour Energy Shot, Stacker 2, Red Bull Energy Shot, Redline Energy Shot, NOS Energy Shot, Rockstar Energy Shot, Full Throttle Quick Shot, Amp Energy Shot and many other brands. TCCC and PepsiCo also market and/or distribute additional products in that 
market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and Vault. Internationally, our energy drinks compete with Red Bull, Rockstar, Burn, V-Energy, Lucozade, Relentless and numerous local and private label brands that usually differ from country to country, such as Play, Mother, Hell, Shock, Tiger and a host of other international brands.
 
Our Java Monster™ and X-Presso Monster™ product lines compete directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Seattle’s Best, illy issimo coffee and Full Throttle Coffee.
 
Our Peace Tea™ and Admiral™ Iced Tea product lines compete directly with Arizona, Lipton, Snapple, Nestea, Xing Tea and other tea brands.
 
Our natural sodas compete directly with traditional soda products, including those marketed by TCCC, PepsiCo and the DPS Group, as well as with carbonated beverages marketed by smaller or primarily local companies such as Jones Soda Co., Clearly Canadian Beverage Company, Crystal Geyser, J.M. Smucker Company and with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.
 
Our apple and other juice products compete directly with Tree Top, Mott’s, Martinelli’s, Welch’s, Ocean Spray, Tropicana, Minute Maid, Langers, Apple and Eve, Seneca, Northland, Juicy Juice and also with other brands of apple juice and juice blends, especially store brands.
 
Our fruit juice smoothies compete directly with Kern’s, Jumex and Jugos del Valle as well as with single-serve juice products produced by many competitors.  Such competitive products are packaged in glass and PET plastic bottles ranging from 8- to 48-ounces in size and in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans. The juice content of such competitive products ranges from 1% to 100%.
 
Sales and Marketing
 
Our sales and marketing strategy for all our beverages is to focus our efforts on developing brand awareness through image enhancing programs and product sampling. We use our branded vehicles and other promotional vehicles at events where we offer samples of our products to consumers. We utilize “push-pull” methods to achieve maximum shelf and display space exposure in sales outlets and maximum demand from consumers for our products, including advertising, in-store promotions and in-store placement of point-of-sale materials, racks, coolers and barrel coolers, prize promotions, price promotions, competitions, endorsements from selected public and extreme sports figures, coupons, sampling and sponsorship of selected causes and events. In-store posters, outdoor posters, print, radio and television advertising, together with price promotions and coupons, may also be us
ed to promote our brands.  Our extreme sports team endorsements include teams such as the Pro Circuit – Kawasaki Motocross and Supercross teams, Kawasaki Factory Motocross and Supercross teams, Ken Block Rally Racing Team and the Tech 3 Moto GP Team. Our individual athlete and/or personality endorsements include extreme sports figures and athletes such as NASCAR Camping World Truck Series racer Ricky Carmichael, World Champion Moto GP motorcycle racer Valentino Rossi, World Champion Formula 1 racer Michael Schumacher, television personalities such as Rob Dyrdek as well as many other athletes
 
15






 
that compete in other extreme sports related activities, particularly, the Winter and Summer X-Games, supercross, motocross, freestyle motocross, endurocross, Moto GP racing, Formula 1 racing, surfing, skateboarding, wakeboarding, skiing, snowboarding, BMX, mountain biking, snowmobile freestyle, snowmobile racing, NASCAR racing, off-road truck racing, rally racing, etc. Our event endorsements include a wide range of events such as the Monster Energy® Supercross Series, the Vans Warped Tour, the Australian SuperX Supercross Series, the Monster Energy® Grand Prix of France and the FIM Motocross World Championships.
 
We believe that one of the keys to success in the beverage industry is differentiation, which entails making our products visually distinctive from other beverages on the shelves of retailers. We review our products and packaging on an ongoing basis and, where practical, endeavor to make them better and unique. The labels and graphics for many of our products are redesigned from time to time to maximize their visibility and identification, wherever they may be placed in stores, and we will continue to reevaluate the same from time to time.
 
Where appropriate, we partner with retailers to assist our marketing efforts. For example, while we retain responsibility for the marketing of the Juice Slam® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks, Costco has undertaken partial responsibility for the marketing of the Juice Blast® line.
 
We increased expenditures for our sales and marketing programs by approximately 12.9% in 2010 compared to 2009. As of December 31, 2010, we employed 1,186 employees in sales and marketing activities, of which 533 were employed on a full-time basis.
 
Customers
 
Our customers are primarily full service beverage distributors, retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, drug chains, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, health food distributors and food service customers. Gross sales to our various customer types for the years ended December 2010, 2009 and 2008 are reflected below. Such information reflects sales made by us directly to the customer types concerned, which include our full service beverage distributors. Such full service beverage distributors in turn sell certain of our products to the customer types listed below. We do not have complete details of the sales of our products by our full service distributors to their respective customers and therefore limit our description of our customer types to include our sales to such full service distributors without reference to their sales to their own cus
tomers.
 



     

     

2010    

     

2009    

     

2008       


Full service   distributors    

     

64%    

     

66%    

     

68%       


Club stores, drug   chains & mass merchandisers    

     

12%    

     

12%    

     

14%       


Outside the U.S.    

     

16%    

     

13%    

     

8%       


Retail grocery,   specialty chains and wholesalers    

     

6%    

     

6%    

     

8%       


Other    

     

2%    

     

3%    

     

2%         
 
Our customers include CCR (formerly known as CCE), New CCE, CCRC (formerly known as CCBC), Consolidated, United and other TCCC North American Bottlers, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), AB Distributors, Coca-Cola Hellenic, Jumex, Kalil Bottling Group, Trader Joe’s, John Lenore & Company, Pepsi Canada, ULC (“Pepsi Canada”) (terminated by us effective December 31, 2008), Swire Coca-Cola, Costco, The Kroger Co. and Safeway, Inc. A decision by any large customer to decrease amounts purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. CCE (including CCBC up to September 30, 2010) (CCE replaced by New CCE from October 1, 2010), accounted for approximately 28% and 27% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2
009, respectively. The DPS Group, a former customer of the DSD segment, accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our distribution agreement
 
16






 
with the DPS Group was terminated by us effective November 9, 2008. The terminated DPS Group territories are now serviced by a combination of TCCC North American Bottlers and AB Distributors. Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), a customer of both the DSD and Warehouse segments, accounted for less than 10% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and approximately 11% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
Seasonality
 
Sales of ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for the highest sales volumes. The volume of sales in the beverage business may be affected by weather conditions. Sales of our beverage products may become increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations as more sales occur outside of California with respect to our products. However, the energy drink category appears to be less seasonal than traditional beverages. As the percentage of our sales that are represented by such products continues to increase, seasonal fluctuations will be further mitigated. Quarterly fluctuations may also be affected by other factors, including the introduction of new products, the opening of new markets where temperature fluctuations are more pronounced, the addition of new bottlers and distributors, changes in the mix of sales of our fi
nished products and changes in and/or increased advertising, marketing and promotional expenses.
 
Intellectual Property
 
We presently have approximately 1,725 registered trademarks and pending applications in various countries worldwide, and we apply for new trademarks on an ongoing basis.  Substantially all of our global trademarks are owned by HBC.  We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and similar intellectual property as very important to our business.  We consider Monster®, Monster Energy®, M Monster Energy®, ®, Java Monster™,  X-PRESSO MONSTER™, Hansen’s Natural Sodas®, Hansen’s®, Blue Sky® and Junior Juice® to be our core trademarks.
 
We protect our trademarks by applying for registrations and registering our trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with government agencies in other countries around the world, particularly where our products are distributed and sold.  We also register copyrights in the statements, graphics and content appearing on the packaging of our products.
 
Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed as long as the trademarks are in use.
 
We enforce and protect our trademark rights against third parties infringing or denigrating our trademarks, opposing registration of infringing trademarks, and initiating litigation as necessary.
 
Government Regulation
 
The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are subject to various U.S. Federal and state regulations, including but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are also subject to numerous similar and other statutes and regulations.
 
17






 
California law requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. The law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products because the law recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning is not required. Consequently, even trace amounts of listed components can expose affected products to the prospect of warning labels. Products containing listed substances that occur naturally in the product or that are contributed to the product solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. While none of our beverage products are required to display warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether an important component of any of our products 
might be added to the California list in the future. We also are unable to predict whether, or to what extent, a warning under this law would have an impact on costs or sales of our products.  Proposals to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or restrict the venues in which energy drinks can be sold, are currently pending before certain state and/or county legislatures. Should these current or any future proposals to enact legislation to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or the venues in which energy drinks can be sold, succeed and become widespread, such legislation could result in a reduction in demand for our energy drinks and adversely affect our results of operations, see “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors” below.
 
Measures have been enacted in various localities and states that require that a deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary by jurisdiction. Other deposit, recycling or product stewardship proposals have been introduced in certain states and localities and in Congress, and we anticipate that similar legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at the local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere.
 
Compliance with Environmental Laws
 
Our facilities in the United States are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Our operations in other countries are subject to similar laws and regulations that may be applicable in such countries. Compliance with these provisions has not had, nor do we expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, net income or competitive position.
 
In California, we are required to collect redemption values from our customers and to remit such redemption values to the State of California Department of Conservation based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold. In certain other states and Canada where our products are sold, we are also required to collect deposits from our customers and to remit such deposits to the respective state agencies based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold in such states.
 
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2010, we employed a total of 1,497 employees of which 833 were employed on a full-time basis. Of our 1,497 employees, we employed 311 in administrative and operational capacities and 1,186 persons in sales and marketing capacities.
 
Available Information
 
As a public company, we are required to file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A and other information (including any amendments) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  You may read and copy such material at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  You can also find the Company’s SEC filings at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
 
18






 
Our Internet address is www.hansens.com.  Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our SEC filings (including any amendments) will be made available free of charge on www.hansens.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing or telephoning us at the following address or telephone number:
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
550 Monica Circle, Suite 201
Corona, CA 92880
(951) 739-6200
(800) HANSENS
(800) 426-7367
 
19







 
ITEM 1A.                            RISK FACTORS
 
In addition to the other information in this report, you should carefully consider the following risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risk factors summarized below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.
 
Changes in consumer preferences may reduce demand for some of our products.
 
There is increasing awareness of and concern for the health consequences of obesity. This may reduce demand for our non-diet beverages, which could affect our profitability.
 
Consumers are seeking greater variety in their beverages. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our continued ability to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages. In order to retain and expand our market share, we must continue to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages and be competitive in the areas of taste, quality and health, although there can be no assurance of our ability to do so. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to purchase our products in the future. Additionally, many of our products are considered premium products and to maintain market share during recessionary periods we may have to reduce profit margins, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Product lifecycles for some beverage brands and/or products and/or packages may be limited to a few years before consumers’ preferences chan
ge. The beverages we currently market are in varying stages of their product lifecycles and there can be no assurance that such beverages will become or remain profitable for us. The beverage industry is subject to changing consumer preferences and shifts in consumer preferences may adversely affect us if we misjudge such preferences. We may be unable to achieve volume growth through product and packaging initiatives. We also may be unable to penetrate new markets. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.
 
Significant changes in government regulation may hinder sales.
 
The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are subject to various federal and state regulations, including, but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. New statutes and regulations may also be instituted in the future.  If a regulatory authority finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or such products may have to be recalled and/or reformulated and/or have the packaging changed, thus adversely affecting our financial condit
ion and operations. In particular, California law requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. While we do not believe that any of our beverage products are required to display warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether an important component of any of our products might be added to the California list in the future. We also are unable to predict whether or to what extent a warning under this law would have an impact on costs or sales of our products. Proposals to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or restrict the venues in which energy drinks can be sold, are currently pending before certain state and/or county legislatures. Should these current or any future proposals to enact legislation to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or the venues in which energy dr
inks can be sold, succeed and/or be enacted by additional states or counties, such legislation could result in a reduction in demand for our energy drinks and adversely affect our results of operations.
 
20






 
Public health officials and health advocates are increasingly focused on the public health consequences associated with obesity, especially as the disease affects children, and are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of sweetened beverages.  Increasing public concern about these issues could result in the implementation of governmental regulations concerning the marketing, labeling or availability of our beverages.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has recently proposed revising regulations with respect to serving size information and nutrition labeling on food and beverage products.  If definitive regulation is promulgated, we may incur significant costs to alter our existing packaging materials to comply with such regulations.  Additionally, revised serving size information may impact and/or reduce and/or otherwise affect the purchase and co
nsumption of our products by our consumers.
 
The U.S. Congress and several state legislatures have considered proposals for excise tax on sweetened beverages.  The imposition of such taxes on our products would increase the cost of products or, to the extent levied directly on consumers, make our products less affordable, both of which could reduce demand for our beverages and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, the Mexican legislature has recently imposed a 25% excise tax on energy drinks, effective as of January 1, 2011.  We have adjusted the caffeine levels in our Monster Energy® products that are sold in Mexico to address this legislation. However, such actions, or actions by retailers to line price energy drinks generally, could decrease consumer demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations.  Furthermore, if similar taxes are imposed in other 
jurisdictions where we distribute our products, such taxes could adversely affect our results of operations.
 
We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our energy drinks and criticism of our energy drink products and/or the energy drink market generally could adversely affect our operating results.
 
Our energy drink products currently generate a substantial portion of our revenues.  Criticism of our energy drink products, including criticism by healthcare professionals of the nutritional benefits of our energy drink products and other criticism for a variety of reasons, could affect consumer opinions of our energy drink products and result in decreased demand, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business.
 
The economic downturn and continued uncertainty in the financial markets and other adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.
 
During the past few years, the global credit and financial markets experienced extreme disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The current adverse global economic conditions and tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experien
ced by our suppliers or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the credit and financial markets and adverse global economic conditions, and if the current uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
 
21






 
Operations outside the United States expose us to uncertain conditions and other risks in international markets.
 
Our gross sales to customers outside of the United States were approximately 16%, 13% and 8% of consolidated gross sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and our growth strategy includes expanding our international business. If we are unable to continue to expand distribution of our products outside the United States, our growth rate could be adversely affected. In many international markets, we have relatively little or no operating experience. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and develop and promote our brands in international markets. Our percentage gross profit margins in many international markets are expected to be less than the comparable percentage gross profit margins obtained in the U.S. We face and will continue to face substantial risks associated with having foreign operations, includ
ing: economic or political instability in our international markets; restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States, including possible taxes or withholding obligations on any repatriations; and tariffs or trade restrictions. These risks could have a significant impact on our ability to sell our products on a competitive basis in international markets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially adverse tax consequences.
 
Global or regional catastrophic events could impact our operations and affect our ability to grow our business.
 
Because of our increasingly global presence, our business could be affected by unstable political conditions, civil unrest, large-scale terrorist acts, especially those directed against the United States or other major industrialized countries where our products are distributed, the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities, major natural disasters or widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases. Such events could impact the production and distribution of our products.  In addition, such events could disrupt global or regional economic activity, which could affect consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products.  If we are unable to grow our business internationally as a result of these factors, our growth rate could decline.
 
Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results.
 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, expenses, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We have not used instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks and are not protected against foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, our reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time.
 
Increased competition could hurt our business.
 
The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and marketing campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.
 
Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include the taste and flavor of our products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as
 
22






 
TCCC, PepsiCo, Red Bull Gmbh, the DPS Group, Kraft Foods Inc., and Nestle Beverage Company. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily national or local in operations such as Tree Top and Ocean Spray. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains, and club stores. Our Java Monster™ product line competes directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Seattle’s Best, illy issimo coffee drinks and Full Throttle Coffee.
 
There can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in maintaining our current revenues or market share or position due to competition in the beverage industry. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
 
We derive a substantial portion of revenues from our energy drinks and competitive pressure in the “energy drink” category could adversely affect our operating results.
 
A substantial portion of our sales are derived from our energy drinks, including in particular our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. Our DSD segment, which comprises primarily energy drinks, represented 93.0% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010. Any decrease in the sales of our Monster Energy® brand and other energy drinks could significantly adversely affect our future revenues and net income. Historically, we have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the energy drink category. Domestically, our energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee, Rockstar Roasted, Full Throttle Coffee, 5-Hour Energy Shot, Stacker 2, Red Bull Energy Shot, Redline Energy Shot, NOS Ener
gy Shot, Rockstar Energy Shot, Full Throttle Quick Shot, Amp Energy Shot and many other brands. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in different packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Snapple, Arizona, Fuse, and Vitamin Water, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits.  In addition, certain large companies such as TCCC and PepsiCo, market and/or distribute products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and Vault. Internationally, our energy drinks compete with Red Bull, Rockstar, Burn, V-Energy, Lucozade, Relentless and numerous local and private label brands that usually differ from country to country, such as Play, Mother, Hell, Shock, Tiger and a host of other international brands. Competitive pressures in the energy drink category could impact our revenues o
r we could experience price erosion or lower market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
 
We rely on bottlers and other contract packers to manufacture our products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our bottlers and contract packers and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes constrained or unavailable to us, our business could suffer.
 
We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource such manufacturing to bottlers and other contract packers. In the event of a disruption or delay, we may be unable to procure alternative packing facilities at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. In addition, there are limited alternative packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for many of our products, including Hansen’s® brand energy drinks in 8.3-ounce cans, our PET tea line, Hansen’s® Sparkling beverages in 10.5-ounce sleek cans, aseptic juice products, juices in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles, Monster Energy®, Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous TechnologyTM<font size="2" style="font-s
ize:11.0pt;">, X-Presso Monster™, Monster Energy® Import and Import Light, Monster Energy® Dub Edition, Monster Rehab™, and Rumba®, Samba, Tango energy drinks in 6.75-ounce and/or 8.3-ounce and/or 9.6-ounce and/or 12-ounce and/or 15.5-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 23.5-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml aluminum cans and/or 18.6-ounce BRE aluminum cans and/or 5-ounce and/or 500ml glass bottles and/or 12-ounce, 15-ounce and 24-ounce aluminum cap-cans, our Java MonsterTM product line in 15-ounce aluminum cans, Worx EnergyTM
 
23






 
energy shots, our Peace TeaTM product line in 23-ounce aluminum cans and other products. A disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues from such products as alternative co-packing facilities in the United States and abroad with adequate capacity may not be available for such products either at commercially reasonable rates, and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products could adversely affect our revenues.
 
We rely on bottlers and distributors to distribute our DSD products.  If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing bottlers and distributors and/or secure such bottlers and distributors, our business could suffer.
 
We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery distributors having established sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other soda, carbonated and non-carbonated brands and other beverage products (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic), including energy drinks. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.
 
The TCCC North American Bottlers, AB Distributors, New CCE and Coca-Cola Hellenic are our primary domestic and international distributors of our Monster Energy® beverages. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or the AB Distributors and/or New CCE and/or Coca-Cola Hellenic, or if the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or AB Distributors and/or New CCE and/or Coca-Cola Hellenic do not focus on marketing and promoting our products in preference to the products of our competitors, sales of our Monster Energy® beverages could be adversely affected.
 
The marketing efforts of our distributors are important for our success. If our DSD brands prove to be less attractive to our existing bottlers and distributors and/or if we fail to attract additional bottlers and distributors, and/or our bottlers and/or distributors do not market and promote our products with greater focus in preference to the products of our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
 
Our customers are material to our success.  If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing customers, our business could suffer.
 
Unilateral decisions could be taken by our distributors, convenience chains, grocery chains, specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers to discontinue carrying all or any of our products that they are carrying at any time, which could cause our business to suffer.
 
The DPS Group, a former customer of the DSD segment, accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our distribution agreement with the DPS Group was terminated by us effective November 9, 2008. The related terminated distributor territories are now serviced by a combination of the TCCC North American Bottlers and AB Distributors. If the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or AB Distributors are generally not as successful in selling our products as the DPS Group was, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.
 
CCE (including CCBC up to September 30, 2010) (CCE replaced by New CCE from October 1, 2010), accounted for approximately 28% and 27% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), a customer of both the DSD and Warehouse segments, accounted for less than 10% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and approximately 11% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. A decision by CCR, CCRC, New CCE, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), Coca-Cola Hellenic, or any other large customer to decrease the amount purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.
 
24






 
Increases in costs and/or shortages of raw materials and/or ingredients and/or fuel and/or costs of co-packing could harm our business.
 
The principal raw materials used by us are aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk and cream, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. In addition, certain of our co-pack arrangements allow such co-packers to increase their charges based on certain of their own cost increases. We are uncertain whether the prices of any of the above or any other raw materials or ingredients, certain of which have risen recently, will continue to rise or may rise in the future. We are unsure whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our customers. We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage the risks associated with securing sufficient ingredients or raw materials.
 
In addition, some of these raw materials, such as certain sizes of cans, are available from a limited number of suppliers.
 
Our failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results.
 
We may not correctly estimate demand for our products.  Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to, PET plastic bottles, cans, glass, labels, sucralose, flavors, supplements, juice concentrates, certain sweeteners, coffee, tea or packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. Moreover, industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates, supplements and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the future, be experienced. Such shortages could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products and could have a material adverse e
ffect on our business and financial results. We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage this risk.
 
The costs of packaging supplies are subject to price increases from time to time and we may be unable to pass all or some of such increased costs on to our customers.
 
Many of our packaging supplies contracts allow our suppliers to alter the costs they charge us for packaging supplies based on changes in the costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce those packaging supplies, such as resin for PET plastic bottles, aluminum for cans and pulp and paper for cartons and/or trays. These changes in the prices we pay for our packaging supplies occur at certain predetermined times that vary by product and supplier. In some cases, we fix the prices of certain packaging supplies for a reasonable period. In other cases, we bear the risk of increases in the costs of these packaging supplies, including the underlying costs of the commodities that comprise these packaging supplies. We do not use derivative instruments to manage this risk. If the costs of these packaging supplies increase, we may be unable to pass these costs along to ou
r customers through corresponding adjustments to the prices we charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key flavor suppliers.  If we are unable to source our flavors on acceptable terms from our key suppliers, we could suffer disruptions in our business.
 
Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors. Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. If we must replace a flavor supplier, we could experience temporary disruptions in our ability to deliver products to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
25






 
Our intellectual property rights are critical to our success, and the loss of such rights could materially adversely affect our business.
 
We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business.  We also own the copyright in and to a portion of the content on the packaging of our products. We regard our trademarks, copyrights, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success and attempt to protect such intellectual property with registered and common law trademarks and copyrights, restrictions on disclosure and other actions to prevent infringement. However, there can be no assurance that other third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we lose some or all of our intellectual property rights, our business may be materially adversely affected.
 
If we are unable to maintain brand image or product quality, or if we encounter product recalls, our business may suffer.
 
Our success depends on our ability to build and maintain brand image for our existing products, new products and brand extensions. We have no assurance that our advertising, marketing and promotional programs will have the desired impact on our products’ brand image and on consumer preference and demand. Product quality and/or ingredient content issues, efficacy or lack thereof, real or imagined, or allegations of product contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. We may be required from time to time to recall products entirely or from specific co-packers, markets or batches. Product recalls could adversely affect our profitability and our brand image. We do not maintain recall insurance.
 
While we have to date not experienced any credible product liability litigation, there is no assurance that we will not experience such litigation in the future. In the event we were to experience product liability claims or a product recall, our financial condition and business operations could be materially adversely affected.
 
If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, or if our retailers’ inventory levels are too high, our operating results will be adversely affected.
 
If we do not accurately anticipate the future demand for a particular product or the time it will take to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels will not be appropriate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to meet our shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If the inventory of our products held by our distributors and/or retailers is too high, they will not place orders for additional products, which would unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results.
 
If we are not able to retain the full-time services of senior management there may be an adverse effect on our operations and/or our operating performance until we find suitable replacements.
 
Our business is dependent, to a large extent, upon the services of our senior management.  We do not maintain key person life insurance for any members of our senior management. The loss of services of either Mr. Sacks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Schlosberg, President and Chief Financial Officer, or any other key members of our senior management could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms.
 
26






 
Climate change may negatively affect our business.
 
There is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. While warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of our products, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions, which may limit availability or increase the cost of certain key ingredients and juice concentrates used in our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain including, without limitation, the availability of and/or result in higher prices for juice concentrates and natural flavors, or impact demand for our products. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions 
could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Sales of our products may also be influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Weather conditions may influence consumer demand for certain of our beverages, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
Potential changes in accounting practices and/or taxation may adversely affect our financial results.
 
We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on our financial results. New accounting standards could be issued that change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported earnings. Increases in direct and indirect income tax rates could affect after tax income.  Equally, increases in indirect taxes (including environmental taxes pertaining to the disposal of beverage containers) could affect our products’ affordability and reduce our sales.
 
Volatility of stock price may restrict sale opportunities.
 
Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including stockholder expectations, financial results, the introduction of new products by us and our competitors, general economic and market conditions, estimates and projections by the investment community and public comments by other persons and many other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to achieve analysts’ earnings forecasts, which may be based on their own projected volumes and sales of many product types and/or new products, certain of which are more profitable than others, as well as their own estimates of gross margin and operating expenses. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve projected levels or mixes of product sales and/or revenues and/or gross margins and/or operating profits and/or net income. As a result, our stock price is subject to significant volati
lity and stockholders may not be able to sell our stock at attractive prices. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, our stock price high was $54.75 and stock price low was $24.01.
 
Provisions in our organizational documents and control by insiders may prevent changes in control even if such changes would be beneficial to other stockholders.
 
Our organizational documents may limit changes in control. Furthermore, as of February 22, 2011, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg together may be deemed to beneficially own approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg could exercise significant control over matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including electing directors, amending organizational documents and disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may be favorable to the other common stockholders.
 
27






 
Our cash flow may not be sufficient to fund our long term goals.
 
We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to support our capital expenditure plans and general operating activities. In addition, the terms and/or availability of our credit facility and/or the activities of our creditors could affect the financing of our future growth.
 
Our investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.
 
At December 31, 2010, we had $354.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $288.8 million in short- and long-term investments. We have historically invested these amounts in U.S. Treasury bills, government agencies and municipal securities (which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.
 
Certain of our short-term investments and all of our long-term investments are comprised of municipal or educational related or other public body notes with an auction reset feature (“auction rate securities”). A large portion of these notes carry an investment grade or better credit rating and are additionally backed by various federal agencies and/or monoline insurance companies. The applicable interest rate is reset at pre-determined intervals, usually every 7 to 35 days. Liquidity for these auction rate securities was typically provided by an auction process which allowed holders to sell their notes at periodic auctions. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the auctions for these auction rate securities failed, and there is no assurance that future auctions will succeed. The auction failures have been attributable to inadequate buye
rs and/or buying demand and/or the lack of support from financial advisors and sponsors. In the event that there is a failed auction, the indenture governing the security in some cases requires the issuer to pay interest at a default rate that may be above market rates for similar instruments. The securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue and/or pay interest at their pre-determined default rates and be auctioned every 7 to 35 days until their respective auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities, they mature or we are able to sell the securities to third parties.  As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited.
 
At December 31, 2010, we held auction rate securities with a face value of $79.6 million (amortized cost basis of $70.7 million). A Level 3 valuation was performed on our auction rate securities as of December 31, 2010 resulting in a fair value of $25.4  million for our available-for-sale auction rate securities (after a $7.4 million impairment) and $42.9 million for our trading auction rate securities, which are included in short- and long-term investments. In March 2010, we entered into an agreement (the “ARS Agreement”), related to $54.2 million in par value auction rate securities (“ARS Securities”).  Under the ARS Agreement, we have the right, but not the obligation, to sell these ARS Securities including all accrued but unpaid interest (the “Put Option”) as follows: (i) on or after March 22, 2011, up to $1
3.6 million aggregate par value; and (ii) semi-annual or annual installments thereafter with full sale rights available on or after March 22, 2013. The ARS Securities will continue to accrue interest until redeemed through the Put Option, or as determined by the auction process or the terms outlined in the prospectus of the respective ARS Securities when the auction process fails. During the year ended December 31, 2010, $7.4 million of par value ARS Securities were redeemed at par through normal market channels.
 
28






 
If the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to refinance their debts and call the notes or successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional impairment charges on these investments in the future. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue or there are ratings downgrades on the auction rate securities held by us, we may be required to recognize additional impairments on these investments. We may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 40 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value (See “Part II, Item 7A – Qualitative And Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risks” and “Part II, Item 8, Notes 2 and 3 in our consolidated financial stat
ements”).
 
If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting on a consolidated basis, our stock price and investor confidence in our Company could be materially and adversely affected.
 
We are required to maintain both disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that are effective for the purposes described in “Part II, Item 9A – Controls and Procedures.” If we fail to do so, our business, results of operations, financial condition or the value of our stock could be materially harmed.
 
Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results.
 
We are a party, from time to time, to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, intellectual property, fraud, unfair business practices and false advertising, breach of contract claims, securities actions and shareholder derivative actions. Material legal proceedings are described more fully in “Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” and in “Part II, Item 8, Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements” contained in this Form 10-K.
 
Defending these proceedings will result in significant ongoing expenditures and the continued diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could have a negative effect on our business operations. Our failure to successfully defend or settle any litigation or legal proceedings could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenue and profitability, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.
 
We must continually maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems.
 
Information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. If our data management systems, including our SAP enterprise resource planning system, do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulati
ons will be impaired, perhaps materially. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results.
 
ITEM 1B