Item 1A – Risk Factors”
below.

 

Products – DSD Segment

 

Monster Energy® Drinks – In 2002, we launched a new carbonated energy drink under the Monster
Energy® brand name in 16-ounce cans, which was almost double the size of our
Hansen’s branded energy drinks (in 8.3-ounce cans) and the vast majority of
competitive energy drinks on the market at that time. Our Monster Energy®
drinks contain different types and levels of supplements than our Hansen’s®
energy drinks and are marketed through our full service distributor network. We
offer the following products under the Monster Energy® brand energy drink
product line: Monster Energy®, lo-carb
Monster Energy®, Monster Energy® Assault®,
Monster Energy® KhaosTM,
Monster Energy® M-80TM (named
“RIPPER” in certain countries), Monster Energy® Heavy MetalTM,
Monster Energy® MIXXDTM, Monster Energy® Import and Monster Energy®
Dub Edition. We package our Monster Energy® drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 12-ounce
and/or 16-ounce and/or 23.5-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml
and/or 550ml aluminum cans and/or 500ml glass bottles.

 

Java MonsterTM Coffee + Energy Drinks - a line of non-carbonated dairy based
coffee + energy drinks under the Java MonsterTM brand name. We offer the following products
under the Java MonsterTM product line: Java MonsterTM OriginaleTM,
Java MonsterTM Loca
Moca®, Java MonsterTM Mean
Bean®, Java MonsterTM Russian, Java MonsterTM Irish BlendTM,
Java MonsterTM Chai
HaiTM, Java MonsterTM Nut UpTM and Java MonsterTM Lo-BallTM.
We package our Java MonsterTM Coffee
+ energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum cans.

 

NitrousTM Monster Energy® Drinks - In July 2009,
we introduced a new line of carbonated energy drinks containing nitrous oxide.
We offer the following products under the NitrousTM Monster Energy®  product
line: Extra Dry, Anti Gravity and Killer B. We package our NitrousTM Monster Energy®
drinks in 12-ounce sleek aluminum cans.

 

X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer -
In June 2009, we introduced X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer,
a non-carbonated espresso energy drink in 6.75-ounce aluminum cans.

 

Monster
Hitman Energy ShooterTM - a line of energy shooters in 3-ounce
polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) plastic bottles. We offer the following
products under the Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTM product line: Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTM, Monster LOBO Energy ShooterTM and Monster
Sniper Energy ShooterTM.

 

Lost® EnergyTM Drinks - a carbonated energy drink under the Lost® brand name. The Lost®
brand name is owned by Lost International, LLC and the drinks are produced,
sold and distributed by us under an exclusive license from Lost International,
LLC. We offer the following products under the Lost® EnergyTM brand energy drink product line: Lost®, Lost®
Perfect 10TM, Lost® Five-OTM and Lost® CadillacTM.  We package our Lost® EnergyTM drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or
16-ounce and/or 24-ounce aluminum cans.

 

Energy Juices
- - non-carbonated energy juices under the Rumba®, Samba and Tango brand names.  Our energy juices are 100% juice products
that target male and female morning beverages consumers and are positioned as a


 

5












 

substitute for coffee, caffeinated sodas and 100% orange or other juices.  We package our energy juices in 15.5-ounce
aluminum cans.

 

Vidration® - a zero calorie, vitamin enhanced water line under
the Vidration® brand name in 20-ounce PET bottles. We offer the following
products under the Vidration® brand product line: Defense, Recover, Energy,
Multi – V and Power.

 

Peace TeaTM - In December 2009, we introduced a new
line of ready-to-drink iced teas in 23-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the
following products under the Peace TeaTM product line: green tea, imported Ceylon tea,
sweet lemon tea and razzleberry tea.

 

Products – Warehouse
Segment

 

Hansen’s Natural Sodas® - Hansen’s Natural Sodas® have been a leading natural soda brand in
Southern California for the past 30 years. Hansen’s Natural Sodas®, sweetened
with cane sugar, and Hansen’s® Calorie Free Sodas, sweetened with Splenda® and
Acesulfame-K, contain no preservatives, no sodium and no caffeine. We offer the
following sodas under the Hansen’s® brand name:  Hansen’s
Natural Sodas®, Hansen’s® Calorie Free Sodas, Hansen’s® Natural Soda Mixers,
Hansen’s® Natural Sparkling Sleek Beverages and Hansen’s® Natural Sparkling
Sleek Sugar Free Beverages. We package our natural sodas in 12-ounce and/or
16-ounce aluminum cans and our sleek beverages in contemporary 10.5-ounce
aluminum cans.

 

Blue Sky® Products - The Blue Sky® products contain no preservatives,
artificial sweeteners or caffeine (other than the energy drinks) or artificial
coloring and are made with sugar and high quality natural flavors. We offer the
following products under the Blue Sky® product line: Blue Sky® Natural Sodas,
Blue Sky® Premium Sodas, Blue Sky® Organic Natural Sodas, Blue Sky® Seltzer
Water, Blue Sky® Blue Energy® drink, Blue Sky® Café Energy and Blue Sky® Tea
Sodas. In September 2009, we introduced Blue Sky® Free Sodas, a new line
of all natural, zero calorie sodas sweetened with TruviaTM brand stevia extract, an all natural
sweetener. We package our Blue Sky® Sodas and seltzer waters in 12-ounce
aluminum cans. We package our Blue Sky® Café energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum
cans. We package our Blue Sky® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 16-ounce
aluminum cans.

 

Hansen’s® Energy Drinks - Our Hansen’s®
energy drinks compete in the “functional” beverage category, namely, beverages
that provide a real or perceived benefit in addition to simply delivering
refreshment. Our Hansen’s® energy drinks
contain vitamins, minerals, nutrients, herbs and supplements (collectively, “supplements”).
Since 2006, we have marketed our Hansen’s® brand energy drinks through the Warehouse
segment. We offer the following products under the Hansen’s®
energy drink product line: Hansen’s® Energy Pro and Hansen’s® Energy Diet Red. We package
our Hansen’s® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce aluminum cans.

 

Juice
Products and Smoothies - Our fruit juice product line includes Hansen’s® Natural Apple Juice,
which is packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles and 128-ounce High Density
Polyethylene bottles, and Hansen’s® Natural Grape Juice, White Grape Juice,
Pineapple Juice, Apple Grape Juice, Apple Strawberry Juice, Orange Juice,
Cranberry-Apple Juice, Ruby Red Grapefruit Juice, Pomegranate Juice Cocktail,
Organic Apple White Grape Juice, Organic Apple Wild Berry Juice and Organic
Apple Juice, which are packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles. These Hansen’s®
juice products contain 100% juice as well as 120% of the United States
Recommended Daily Allowances (the “USRDA”) for Vitamin C (except Pomegranate
which contains 27% juice and 100% of the USRDA for Vitamin C). In 2009, we
introduced Hansen’s® Natural Lo-Cal juice cocktails, a new line of all natural,
low calorie 64-ounce juice cocktails in four flavors. The Lo-Cal juice
cocktails are sweetened with TruviaTM brand stevia extract, an all natural
sweetener. Hansen’s® juice products compete in the shelf-stable juice category.

 

6












 

Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies contain approximately 25% juice and
provide 100% of the recommended daily intake for adults of Vitamins A, C &
E and represented Hansen’s® entry into what is commonly referred to as the “functional”
beverage category. Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies are packaged in 11.5-ounce
aluminum cans.

 

We market the above-mentioned juice and smoothie products to our direct
retail customers.

 

Hansen’s® Iced Teas - a line of iced teas in sleek 16-ounce
wide mouth PET plastic bottles. We offer varieties sweetened with cane sugar as
well as sugar free and unsweetened varieties. 
Each bottle of tea contains 75
mg of Epigallocatechin Gallate (EGCG), a natural and powerful antioxidant.

 

Juices for Children - Our Juice Blast® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks is a
dual-branded 100% juice line which was launched in conjunction with Costco
Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”) and is sold through Costco stores. Our Juice
SlamTM line
of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks is a 100% juice line which we market
to grocery store chain customers, the health food trade, and other customers.
Both Juice Blast® and Juice SlamTM lines of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks
contain eleven essential vitamins and six essential minerals. Both the Juice
Blast® and Juice SlamTM lines
are marketed in 6.75-ounce aseptic boxes.

 

In 2001, we acquired the Junior Juice® beverage business.  Hansen’s® Junior Juice® product line is a
100% juice line offered in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages and is targeted at
toddlers and preschoolers. Most flavors in the Junior Juice® line have calcium
added and all flavors contain 100% of the daily recommended allowance of
Vitamin C. We extended the Junior Juice® line by adding organic juice products
in 4.23-ounce aseptic boxes. Each of our organic Junior Juice® products have
100% juice and contain 100% of the daily recommended allowance of Vitamin C.

 

Hansen’s® Organic Junior WaterTM - Our Hansen’s® Organic Junior WaterTM line in
4.23-ounce aseptic packages was created specially for children ages two to six
years old. Our Hansen’s® Organic Junior WaterTM line of flavored waters contains 100% of the
daily recommended allowance of Vitamin C per serving, no preservatives, no
artificial colors, no artificial flavors, no artificial sweeteners, no high
fructose corn syrup and contains only thirty calories per serving.

 

SELF Beauty ElixirTM by Hansen’s® - In August 2009, we introduced our SELF
Beauty ElixirTM line,
a low-calorie, functional, ready-to-drink beauty beverage infused with an
essential blend of vitamins, minerals, natural fruit & botanical
extracts with antioxidants. SELF Beauty ElixirTM by Hansen’s® 
contains 30% fruit juice, all natural flavors, and many antioxidant rich
vitamins such as 500% Vitamin E, 150% Vitamin C, and 100% Vitamin A of the
respective daily recommended allowances per serving. In addition to having only
35 calories per can, the product is very low in sodium, gluten-free,
preservative-free and contains no artificial colors.  SELF Beauty ElixirTM by Hansen’s® is packaged in 8-ounce slim
aluminum cans.

 

Bottled Water - Our
still water product was introduced in 1993 and is now sold in 0.5-liter plastic
bottles, primarily to the food service trade. Sales of this product line are
very limited.

 

During
2009, we continued to expand our existing product lines and further develop our
distribution markets.  In particular, we
continued to focus on developing and marketing beverages that fall within the
category generally described as the “alternative” beverage category, with
particular emphasis on energy type drinks.

 

7












 

Other
Products

 

We
continue to evaluate and, where considered appropriate, introduce additional
flavors and types of beverages to complement our existing product lines. We
will also evaluate, and may, where considered appropriate, introduce “functional”
foods/snack foods that utilize similar channels of distribution and/or are
complementary to our existing products and/or to which our brand names are able
to add value.

 

We also develop and supply, on a limited basis, selected beverages in
different formats to a limited number of customers with the objective of
solidifying and/or enhancing our relationship with those customers.

 

Manufacture and Distribution

 

We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource the
manufacturing process to third party bottlers and contract packers.

 

We purchase concentrates, juices, flavors, supplements, cans, bottles,
aseptic boxes, aseptic pouches, caps, labels, trays, boxes and other
ingredients for our beverage products from our suppliers, which are delivered
to our various third party bottlers and co-packers. Depending on the product,
the third party bottlers or packers add filtered water and/or other ingredients
and supplements for the manufacture and packaging of the finished products into
Company-approved containers in accordance with our formulas. In the case of
sodas and other carbonated beverages, the bottler/packer adds carbonation to
the products as part of the production process.

 

Co-Packing Arrangements

 

We are generally responsible for arranging for the purchase of and
delivery to our third party bottlers and co-packers of the containers in which
our beverage products are packaged.

 

All of our beverage products are manufactured by various third party
bottlers and co-packers situated throughout the United States and abroad, under
separate arrangements with each party. The majority of our co-packaging
arrangements are on a month-to-month basis. 
However, certain of our co-packing arrangements are described below:

 

(a)       Our agreement with Gluek Brewing Company
(“Gluek”) pursuant to which Gluek packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract
continues until May 2010 and is automatically extended for additional
terms of one (1) year each, unless either party notifies the other in
writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the last day of the
then current term.

 

(b)      Our agreement with  Carolina
Beer & Beverage  (“Carolina”)
pursuant to which Carolina packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract
continues until April 2010 and is automatically extended for additional
periods of one (1) year each, unless either party notifies the other in
writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the last day of the
then current term.

 

(c)       Our agreement with Safeway, Inc. (“Safeway”)
pursuant to which Safeway packages certain of our energy drinks and Hansen’s
Natural Sodas®. This contract continues until March 2010 and is
automatically renewed annually thereafter, unless terminated by either party
upon six (6) months written notice.

 

(d)      Our agreement with Nor-Cal Beverage Co.,
Inc. (“Nor-Cal”) pursuant to which Nor-Cal packages certain of our Hansen’s
juices in PET plastic bottles. This contract continues until August 2010 

 

8












 

and is automatically renewed for one (1) year
terms thereafter unless terminated by either party not less than ninety (90)
days before the end of the initial term or any renewal period.

 

(e)       Our agreement with Dairy Farmers of
America, Inc. (“DFA”) pursuant to which DFA packages certain of our energy
drinks. This contract continues until March 2010 and is automatically
renewed for consecutive one (1) year periods, subject to mutually
agreeable pricing, unless either party provides notice of cancellation at least
ninety (90) days prior to the end of the initial term or subsequent extension
period. Further, either party may terminate this agreement at its sole
discretion at any time by providing the other party with one hundred eighty
(180) days prior written notification specifying the date of termination.

 

(f)        Our agreement with the American Bottling
Co. (“American”) pursuant to which American packages certain of our energy
drinks. This contract continues until March 2010 and is automatically
renewed for additional terms of one (1) year, unless terminated by either
party at least ninety (90) days prior to the last day of the then current term.

 

(g)       Our agreement with Giumarra &
Associates Beverage Company (“Giumarra”) pursuant to which Giumarra packages
certain of our energy drinks and juices. 
This contract continues until June 2010 and is automatically extended
for additional periods of one (1) year, unless either party notifies the
other in writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the last day
of the then current term.

 

(h)      Our agreement with Pri-Pak, Inc. (“Pri-Pak”)
pursuant to which Pri-Pak packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract
continues indefinitely but may be terminated at any time by either party by
giving ninety (90) days prior written notice.

 

(i)          Our agreement with O-AT-KA Milk Products
Cooperative (“O-AT-KA”) pursuant to which O-AT-KA packages certain of our
energy drinks. This contract continues until September 2010 and is
automatically renewable for consecutive one (1) year periods, subject to
mutually agreeable pricing, unless either party provides notice of cancellation
at least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the initial term or subsequent
extension period.

 

In certain instances, equipment is purchased by us and
installed at the facilities of our co-packers to enable them to produce certain
of our products. In general, such equipment remains our property and is either
returned to us upon termination of the packing arrangements with such
co-packers or is amortized over a pre-determined number of cases that are to be
produced at the facilities concerned.

 

We pack certain products outside of the West Coast region to enable us
to produce products closer to the markets where they are sold and thereby
reduce freight costs. As distribution volumes increase in both our domestic and
international markets, we continue to secure additional packing arrangements
closer to such markets to further reduce freight costs.

 

Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise,
particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid
growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for
our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials
including, but not limited to PET/plastic bottles, aseptic boxes, cans, glass,
labels, flavors, juice concentrates, or supplement ingredients or certain
sweeteners, or packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on
a short-term basis. (See “Part I,
Item 1A – Risk Factors”).

 

Although our production arrangements are generally of short duration or
are terminable upon our request, we believe a short disruption or delay would
not significantly affect our revenues because alternative packing facilities in
the United States with adequate capacity can usually be obtained for many of
our products at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short
time period. 

 

9












 

However, there are limited packing facilities in the
United States, Canada, Australia, Brazil, the United Kingdom and Europe with
adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for certain of our products,
including Monster Energy®, NitrousTM Monster Energy®, X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer and Lost® EnergyTM energy drinks, Rumba®, Samba and Tango energy juice
drinks, our Java MonsterTM product line and our aseptic juice products. A
disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly
affect our revenues from such products as alternative co-packing facilities in
the United States, Canada, Australia, Brazil, the United Kingdom or Europe, as
the case may be, with adequate capacity may not be available for such products
either at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time
period, if at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products
could affect our revenues. We continue to seek alternative and/or additional
co-packing facilities in the United States, Canada, Australia, Brazil, the
United Kingdom and Europe with adequate capacity for the production of our
various products to minimize the risk of a disruption in production.

 

Distribution
Agreements

 

Certain of our
distribution agreements are described below:

 

(a)       During the second quarter of 2006, we
entered into the Monster Beverages Off-Premise Distribution Coordination
Agreement and the Allied Products Distribution Coordination Agreement (jointly,
the “Off-Premise Agreements”) with Anheuser-Busch, Inc., a Missouri
corporation (“AB”). Under the Off-Premise Agreements, select Anheuser-Busch
distributors (the “AB Distributors”) distribute and sell, in markets designated
by us, our Monster Energy® and Lost® EnergyTM brands non-alcoholic energy drinks and Rumba®,
Samba and Tango brand energy juices, as well as additional products that may be
agreed between the parties.

 

(b)      During the first quarter of 2007, we
entered into the On-Premise Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “On-Premise
Agreement”) with AB. Under the On-Premise Agreement, AB manages and coordinates
the sale, distribution and merchandising of Monster Energy® energy drinks to
on-premise retailers including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in territories
approved by us.

 

(c)       During the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into the Monster Energy Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC
North American Coordination Agreement”) with The Coca-Cola Company (“TCCC”).
Pursuant to the TCCC North American Coordination Agreement, we have designated,
and in the future may designate, territories in which bottlers from TCCC’s
network of partially owned and independent bottlers, including Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc.
(“CCE”), Coca-Cola Bottling Company (“CCBC”), CCBCC Operations, LLC (“Consolidated”),
United Bottling Contracts Company, LLC (“United”), and other TCCC independent
bottlers (collectively, the “TCCC North American Bottlers”) will distribute and
sell primarily our Monster Energy® beverages (the “Products”) in the United
States and Canada.

 

(d)      During the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into the Monster Energy Distribution Agreement with CCE pursuant to
which CCE was appointed to distribute, directly and through certain
sub-distributors, the Products in portions of twenty-four U.S. states (the “U.S.
Territories”). We may designate additional territories within reasonable
proximity to the U.S. Territories and CCE will use reasonable good faith
efforts to add the additional territories. During the fourth quarter of 2008,
we entered into the Monster Energy Canadian Distribution Agreement with CCBC,
pursuant to which CCBC has been appointed to distribute, directly and through
certain sub-distributors, the Products in Canada, with performance commencing
on January 1, 2009. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into distribution agreements with Consolidated, United and other TCCC
North American Bottlers for the distribution of the Products in various
territories within the United States.

 

10












 

(e)       During the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into the Monster Energy International Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC
International Coordination Agreement”) with TCCC. Pursuant to the TCCC
International Coordination Agreement, we have designated, and in the future may
designate, countries in which we wish to appoint TCCC distributors to
distribute and sell the Products.

 

(f)        During the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into the Monster Energy International Distribution Agreement and the
Monster Energy Belgium Distribution Agreement with CCE pursuant to which CCE
has been appointed to distribute directly, and through certain sub-distributors,
the Products in Great Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and
Monaco.

 

(g)       During the fourth quarter of 2008, we
entered into a distribution agreement with Comercializadora Eloro, S.A., a
subsidiary of Grupo Jumex, for exclusive distribution throughout Mexico,
excluding the Baja and Sonora regions, of our Monster Energy® and Monster
Energy® KhaosTM energy drinks as well as select Java MonsterTM product line
drinks. Distribution under this agreement commenced January 26, 2009.

 

(h)      During the second quarter of 2009, we
entered into a distribution agreement with Schweppes Australia Pty Ltd. for
exclusive distribution throughout Australia of certain of our Monster Energy®
energy drinks. Distribution under this agreement commenced in July 2009.

 

(i)          During the second quarter of 2006, we
entered into a distribution agreement with Cadbury Bebidas, S.A. de C.V. (“Cadbury
Bebidas”), for exclusive distribution by Cadbury Bebidas throughout Mexico,
excluding Baja California, of our Monster Energy® and Lost® EnergyTM energy
products. In December 2008, this distributor was notified of the
termination of its distribution agreement on January 25, 2009.

 

Distribution levels vary by product and geographic location. Gross
sales outside the United States accounted for $168.0 million, $94.2 million and
$53.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. The reclassification of a portion of our gross sales to certain
military customers to gross sales to customers within the United States from
gross sales to customers outside the United States resulted in a decrease in
gross sales outside the United States of $2.1 million and $1.8 million for the
years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, over amounts
previously reported.

 

We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering
into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery
distributors with established sales, marketing and distribution organizations.
Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture
and/or distribute other soda and non-carbonated brands and other beverage
products. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.

 

During 2009, we continued to expand distribution of our products in both
the domestic and international markets, and our Monster Energy® drinks are now
sold in more than 40 countries around the world. We expanded our sales force to
support and grow sales, primarily of our Monster Energy® drinks, our Java
MonsterTM product line, our Monster Hitman Energy
ShooterTM’s, our NitrousTM Monster Energy®
product line and our X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer
energy drink.

 

Our Blue Sky® products are sold primarily to the health food trade,
natural food chains and mainstream grocery store chains, through specialty
health food distributors.

 

11












 

Raw Materials and
Suppliers

 

The
principal raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products are aluminum
cans, PET plastic bottles as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk
and cream, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. Overall, the prices
of aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, certain juice concentrates and milk and
cream decreased in 2009 as compared to 2008. In particular, prices of apple
concentrate decreased significantly. We have secured a major part of our 2010
supply of apple concentrate at prices below the overall prices incurred in
2009. Sugar prices were higher in 2009.

 

We purchase beverage flavors, concentrates, juices, supplements, cane
sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as well as other ingredients
from independent suppliers located in the United States and abroad.

 

Generally, raw materials utilized by us in our business are readily
available from numerous sources. However, certain raw materials are
manufactured by only one company.  We
purchase sucralose, which is used alone or in combination with Acesulfame-K in
our low-calorie products, flavors, vitamin blends and herbs from single
manufacturers. Additionally, certain of our cans are only manufactured by
single companies in the United States.

 

With regard to our Java MonsterTM product line, the dairy industry is subject to
shortages and higher demand from time to time, which may result in higher prices.

 

With regard to our fruit juice and juice-drink products, the industry
is subject to variability of weather conditions, which may result in higher
prices and/or lower consumer demand for juices.

 

Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their
flavors.  Consequently, we do not have
the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our
concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain these
flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. We have
identified alternative suppliers of many of the supplements contained in many
of our beverages. However, industry-wide shortages of certain fruits and fruit
juices, and supplements and sweeteners have been, and could from time to time
in the future be, experienced, which could interfere with and/or delay
production of certain of our products.

 

We continually endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for
certain of our flavors and concentrates as well as to negotiate arrangements
with suppliers which would enable us to obtain access to certain concentrates
or flavor formulas in certain circumstances. We have been partially successful
in these endeavors. Additionally, in a limited number of cases, contractual
restrictions and/or the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals and licenses
may limit our ability to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers and
manufacturers and/or distributors.

 

In connection with the development of new products and flavors,
independent suppliers bear a large portion of the expense of product
development, thereby enabling us to develop new products and flavors at a relatively
low cost. We have historically developed and successfully introduced new
products, flavors and packaging for our products and intend to continue
developing and introducing additional new beverages and flavors.

 

Competition

 

The
beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are
pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and marketing
campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a
relatively large number of companies, many of which have substantially greater
financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.

 

12











 

Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include
taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and
effective development and marketing of new, unique cutting edge products,
attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. We
also compete for distributors who will focus on the sale of our products ahead
of those of our competitors, provide stable and reliable distribution and
secure adequate shelf space in retail outlets. Competitive pressures in the “alternative”,
energy, coffee and “functional” beverage categories could cause our products to
be unable to gain or to lose market share or we could experience price erosion,
which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results.

 

We have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the
energy drink and energy shot categories. A number of companies who market and
distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in larger volume packages, such as 16-
and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Snapple, Arizona and
Fuse, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their
products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional”
benefits. We believe that many of those products contain lower levels of
supplements and principally deliver refreshment. In addition, many competitive
products are positioned differently from our energy or “functional” drinks. Our
smoothies and tea lines are positioned more closely against those products.

 

We compete not only for consumer preference, but also for maximum
marketing efforts by multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors,
many of which have a principal affiliation with competing companies and brands.
Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and with products of much
larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of
numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Inc.
(“PepsiCo”), The Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the “DPS Group”),
Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods, Inc., Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and
Ocean Spray. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local
in operation. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those
carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.

 

Our natural sodas compete directly with traditional soda products
including those marketed by TCCC, PepsiCo and the DPS Group, as well as with
carbonated beverages marketed by smaller or primarily local companies such as
Jones Soda Co., Clearly Canadian Beverage Company, Crystal Geyser, J.M. Smucker
Company and with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store
chains, convenience store chains and club stores.

 

Our fruit juice smoothies compete directly with Kern’s, Jumex, Jugos
del Valle and Libby’s Nectars, and V8 Smoothies, as well as with single serve
juice products produced by many competitors. 
Such competitive products are packaged in glass and PET bottles ranging
from 8- to 48-ounces in size and in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans. The juice content
of such competitive products ranges from 1% to 100%.

 

Our apple and other juice products compete directly
with Tree Top, Mott’s, Martinelli’s, Welch’s, Ocean Spray, Tropicana, Minute
Maid, Langers, Apple and Eve, Seneca, Northland, Juicy Juice and also with
other brands of apple juice and juice blends, especially store brands.

 

Our energy drinks, including Hansen’s® energy, Diet
Red Energy®, Monster Energy®, NitrousTM Monster Energy®, Lost® EnergyTM and Rumba®, Samba and Tango
energy juice in 8.3-ounce and/or 15.5-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 24-ounce
and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml and/or 550ml aluminum cans and/or 500ml glass
bottles, and our Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTM’s,
compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp,
Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, Vitaminenergy,
5-Hour Energy Shot, Stacker 2, Red Bull Energy Shot, Redline Energy Shot, NOS
Energy Shot, Rockstar Energy Shot, Full Throttle Quick Shot, Amp Energy Shot
and many other brands. TCCC and PepsiCo also market and/or distribute
additional products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew,
Mountain Dew MDX and Vault.

 

13












 

Our Java MonsterTM product line and our X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer energy drink compete directly with Starbucks Frappuccino,
Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other
Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Caribou Coffee, Cinnabon coffee
drinks, Godiva dairy based drinks and Full Throttle Coffee.

 

Our Peace TeaTM product line competes directly with Arizona,
Lipton, Snapple, Nestea, Xing Tea and other tea brands.

 

Sales and Marketing

 

Our sales and marketing strategy for all our beverages is to focus our
efforts on developing brand awareness through image enhancing programs and
product sampling. We use our branded vehicles and other promotional vehicles at
events where we offer samples of our products to consumers. We utilize “push-pull”
methods to achieve maximum shelf and display space exposure in sales outlets
and maximum demand from consumers for our products, including advertising,
in-store promotions and in-store placement of point-of-sale materials, racks,
coolers and barrel coolers, prize promotions, price promotions, competitions,
endorsements from selected public and extreme sports figures, coupons, sampling
and sponsorship of selected causes. In-store posters, outdoor posters, print,
radio and television advertising, together with price promotions and coupons,
may also be used to promote our brands. 
Our extreme sports team endorsements include teams such as the Pro
Circuit – Kawasaki Motocross and Supercross teams, Kawasaki Factory Motocross
and Supercross teams, Robby Gordon Racing Team, Ken Block Rally Racing Team and
the Tech 3 Moto GP Team. Our individual athlete and/or personality endorsements
include extreme sports figures and athletes such as NASCAR Camping World Truck Series racer
Ricky Carmichael, World Champion Moto GP motorcycle racer Valentino Rossi,
World Champion Formula 1 racer Jensen Button, television personalities such as
Rob Dyrdek as well as many other athletes that compete in other extreme sports
related activities, particularly, the Winter and Summer X-Games, supercross,
motocross, freestyle motocross, endurocross, Moto GP racing, Formula 1 racing,
surfing, skateboarding, wakeboarding, skiing, snowboarding, BMX, mountain
biking, snowmobile freestyle, snowmobile racing, NASCAR racing, off-road truck
racing, rally racing, etc. Our event endorsements include a wide range of
events such as the Monster Energy® Supercross Series, the AMA Pro Motocross
Championship Series, the Vans Warped Tour, the Australian SuperX Supercross Series and
the Epicenter Music Festival.

 

We believe that one of the keys to success in the
beverage industry is differentiation, which entails making our products
visually distinctive from other beverages on the shelves of retailers. We
review our products and packaging on an ongoing basis and, where practical,
endeavor to make them better and unique. The labels and graphics for many of
our products are redesigned from time to time to maximize their visibility and
identification, wherever they may be placed in stores, and we will continue to
reevaluate the same from time to time.

 

Where appropriate, we partner with retailers to assist our marketing
efforts. For example, while we retain responsibility for the marketing of the
Juice Slam® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks, Costco has
undertaken partial responsibility for the marketing of the Juice Blast® line.

 

We increased expenditures for our sales and marketing programs by
approximately 7.1% in 2009 compared to 2008. As of December 31, 2009, we
employed 1,141 employees in sales and marketing activities, of which 428 were
employed on a full-time basis.

 

Customers

 

Our
customers are primarily full service beverage distributors, retail grocery and
specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, drug chains, mass merchandisers,
convenience chains, health food distributors and food service customers. Gross
sales to our various customer types for the years ended

 

14












 

December 2009, 2008
and 2007 are reflected below. Such information reflects sales made by us
directly to the customer types concerned, which include our full service
beverage distributors. Such full service beverage distributors in turn sell
certain of our products to the customer types listed below. We do not have
complete details of the sales of our products by our full service distributors
to their respective customers and therefore limit our description of our
customer types to include our sales to such full service distributors without
reference to their sales to their own customers. The allocations below reflect
changes made by us to the categories historically reported.

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2009
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
 
 
  
  Full service distributors
  
  
   
  
  
  66%
  
  
   
  
  
  68%
  
  
   
  
  
  69%
  
 
 
  
  Club stores, drug chains & mass
  merchandisers
  
  
   
  
  
  12%
  
  
   
  
  
  14%
  
  
   
  
  
  14%
  
 
 
  
  Outside the U.S.
  
  
   
  
  
  13%
  
  
   
  
  
  8%
  
  
   
  
  
  5%
  
 
 
  
  Retail grocery, specialty chains and wholesalers
  
  
   
  
  
  6%
  
  
   
  
  
  8%
  
  
   
  
  
  9%
  
 
 
  
  Other
  
  
   
  
  
  3%
  
  
   
  
  
  2%
  
  
   
  
  
  3%
  
 


 

Our customers include CCE, CCBC, Consolidated, United and other TCCC
North American Bottlers, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), AB
Distributors, Kalil Bottling Group, Trader Joe’s, John Lenore &
Company, Pepsi Canada, ULC (“Pepsi Canada”) (terminated by us effective December 31,
2008), Swire Coca-Cola, Costco, The Kroger Co., Safeway, Inc. and SUPERVALU, Inc. A decision by any large customer to decrease amounts
purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material
negative effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of
operations. CCE, a customer of the DSD segment with sales within specific
markets in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and certain countries
in Europe, accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales for the year ended December 13,
2009. The DPS Group, a former customer of the DSD division, accounted for
approximately 13% and 16% of our net sales for the years ended December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. Our distribution agreement with the DPS Group was
terminated by us effective November 9, 2008. The terminated DPS Group
territories are now serviced by a combination of TCCC North American Bottlers
and AB Distributors. Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), a customer of
both the DSD and Warehouse divisions, accounted for approximately 9%, 11% and
12% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

 

Seasonality

 

Sales of ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat
seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for the
highest sales volumes. The volume of sales in the beverage business may be
affected by weather conditions. Sales of our beverage products may become
increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations as more sales occur outside of
California with respect to our products. However, the energy drink category
appears to be less seasonal than traditional beverages. As the percentage of
our sales that are represented by such products continues to increase, seasonal
fluctuations will be further mitigated. Quarterly fluctuations may also be
affected by other factors, including the introduction of new products, the
opening of new markets where temperature fluctuations are more pronounced, the
addition of new bottlers and distributors, changes in the mix of sales of our
finished products and changes in and/or increased advertising, marketing and
promotional expenses.

 

Intellectual Property

 

We
presently have approximately 750 registered trademarks and pending applications
in various countries worldwide, and we apply for new trademarks on an ongoing
basis.  Substantially all of our global
trademarks are owned by HBC.  We regard
our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and
similar intellectual property as very important to our business.  We consider Hansen’s Natural Sodas®, Hansen’s®,
Blue Sky®, Junior Juice®, Monster®, Monster Energy®, M Monster Energy®, M
(stylized)®, Java MonsterTM and Unleash the Beast!® to be our core
trademarks.

 

15












 

We
protect our trademarks by applying for registrations and registering our
trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with
government agencies in other countries around the world, particularly where our
products are distributed and sold.  We
also register copyrights in the statements, graphics and content appearing on
the packaging of our products.

 

Depending
upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or
their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to
have become generic.  Registrations of
trademarks can generally be renewed as long as the trademarks are in use.

 

We
enforce and protect our trademark rights against third parties infringing or
denigrating our trademarks, opposing registration of infringing trademarks, and
initiating litigation as necessary.

 

Government Regulation

 

The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of
our products are subject to various federal and state regulations, including
but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary
Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health
Act; various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local
statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale,
safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the
United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products
are also subject to numerous similar and other statutes and regulations.

 

California law requires that a specific warning appear on any product
that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been
found to cause cancer or birth defects. The law exposes all food and beverage
producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products
because the law recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds
below which a warning is not required. Consequently, even trace amounts of
listed components can expose affected products to the prospect of warning
labels. Products containing listed substances that occur naturally in the
product or that are contributed to the product solely by a municipal water
supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. While none of our
beverage products are required to display warnings under this law, we cannot
predict whether an important component of any of our products might be added to
the California list in the future. We also are unable to predict whether, or to
what extent, a warning under this law would have an impact on costs or sales of
our products.

 

Measures have been enacted in various localities and states that
require that a deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage
containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other
deposit, recycling or product stewardship proposals have been introduced in
certain states and localities and in Congress, and we anticipate that similar
legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at the local, state
and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere.

 

Compliance with Environmental
Laws

 

Our facilities in the United
States are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and
regulations. Compliance with these provisions has not had, nor do we expect
such compliance to have, any material adverse effect upon our capital
expenditures, net income or competitive position.

 

In California, we are required to collect redemption
values from our customers and to remit such redemption values to the State of
California Department of Conservation based upon the number of cans and bottles
of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold. In certain other states
and Canada where Hansen’s® products are sold, we are also required to collect
deposits from our customers and to remit such deposits to the respective state
agencies based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and
non-carbonated products sold in such states.

 

16












 

Employees

 

As of December 31, 2009, we employed a total of
1,430 employees of which 710 were employed on a full-time basis. Of our 1,430
employees, we employed 289 in administrative and operational capacities and
1,141 persons in sales and marketing capacities.

 

Available Information

 

As a
public company, we are required to file our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy
statements on Schedule 14A and other information (including any amendments)
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  You may read and copy such material at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington,
D.C. 20549.  You may obtain information
on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.  You can also find the
Company’s SEC filings at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.

 

Our Internet address
is www.hansens.com. 
Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report
on Form 10-K. Our SEC filings (including any amendments) will be made
available free of charge on www.hansens.com, as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to,
the SEC. In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding
exhibits) at no cost by writing or telephoning us at the following address or
telephone number:

 

Hansen Natural Corporation

550 Monica Circle, Suite 201

Corona, CA 92880

(951) 739-6200

(800) HANSENS

(800) 426-7367

 

17












 

ITEM 1A.       RISK
FACTORS

 

In addition to the other information in this report,
you should carefully consider the following risks. If any of the following
risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or operating
results could be materially adversely affected. The risk factors summarized
below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not
currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may
materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating
results.

 

Changes
in consumer preferences may reduce demand for some of our products.

 

There is increasing
awareness of and concern for the health consequences of obesity. This may
reduce demand for our non-diet beverages, which could affect our profitability.

 

Consumers are seeking greater variety in their
beverages. Our future success will depend,
in part, upon our continued ability to develop and introduce different and
innovative beverages. In order to retain and expand our market share, we must
continue to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages and be
competitive in the areas of taste, quality and health, although there can be no
assurance of our ability to do so. There is no assurance that consumers
will continue to purchase our products in the future. Additionally, many of our
products are considered premium products and to maintain market share during
recessionary periods we may have to reduce profit margins, which would
adversely affect our results of operations. Product lifecycles for some
beverage brands and/or products and/or packages may be limited to a few years
before consumers’ preferences change. The beverages we currently market are in
varying stages of their product lifecycles and there can be no assurance that
such beverages will become or remain profitable for us. The beverage industry is subject to changing consumer preferences and
shifts in consumer preferences may adversely affect us if we misjudge such
preferences. We may be unable to achieve volume growth through product and
packaging initiatives. We also may be unable to penetrate new markets. If
our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of
operations will be adversely affected.

 

Significant
changes in government regulation may hinder sales.

 

The production, distribution and sale in the United
States of many of our products are subject to various federal and state
regulations, including, but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational
Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and various other
federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production,
transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such
products. New statutes and regulations may also be instituted in the future.  If a regulatory authority finds that a
current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of
these regulations, we may be fined, or such products may have to be recalled
and/or reformulated and/or have the packaging changed, thus adversely affecting
our financial condition and operations. In particular, California law requires
that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed
by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth
defects. While we do not believe that any of our beverage products are required
to display warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether an important
component of any of our products might be added to the California list in the
future. We also are unable to predict whether or to what extent a warning under
this law would have an impact on costs or sales of our products.

 

Public
health officials and health advocates are focusing on obesity, especially among
children, and are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of sweetened
beverages. Possible new local and/or county and/or state and/or federal taxes,
increased regulation on labeling and negative publicity may reduce sales of our
products and may adversely affect our financial condition or results of
operations.

 

18












 

Additionally,
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has recently proposed revising
regulations with respect to serving size information and nutrition labeling on
food and beverage products.  If
definitive regulation is promulgated, we may incur significant costs to alter
our existing packaging materials to comply with such regulations.  Additionally, revised serving size
information may impact and/or reduce and/or otherwise affect the purchase and
consumption of our products by our consumers.

 

The
ongoing economic downturn and continued uncertainty in the financial markets
and other adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of
the major countries in which we do business may adversely affect our industry,
business and results of operations.

 

The global credit and financial markets have continued
to experience extreme disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and
credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic
growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic
stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further
deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic
conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a
number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future
business activities. The current adverse global economic conditions and
tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers to postpone
spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their
existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties
experienced by our suppliers or customers could result in product delays,
increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. We are unable
to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the
credit and financial markets and adverse global economic conditions, and if the
current uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, our
business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

 

Operations
outside the United States expose us to uncertain conditions and other risks in
international markets.

 

Our
gross sales to customers outside of the United States were approximately 12.8%,
8.0% and 5.2% of consolidated gross sales for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and our growth strategy includes expanding
our international business. If we are unable to expand distribution of our
products outside the United States, our growth rate could be adversely
affected. In many international markets, we have relatively little or no
operating experience. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain
international operations and promote our brands internationally. We face and
will continue to face substantial risks associated with having foreign
operations, including: economic or political instability in our international
markets; restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign
profits to the United States, including possible taxes or withholding
obligations on any repatriations; and the imposition of tariffs or trade
restrictions. These risks could have a significant impact on our ability to
sell our products on a competitive basis in international markets and could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations. Also, our operations outside of the United States are subject to
risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and regulatory requirements
in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local
operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption, credit risk of
local customers and distributors and potentially adverse tax consequences.

 

Fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results.

 

We are
exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales,
expenses, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than
the U.S. dollar. We have not used instruments to hedge certain foreign currency
risks and are not protected against foreign currency fluctuations. As a result,
our reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange
rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results
from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be
unsustainable over time.

 

19












 

Increased competition could hurt our business.

 

The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of
competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and
marketing campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced
by a relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which have substantially
greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.

 

Important
factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include the taste and
flavor of our products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective
development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different
packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. Our products compete with
all liquid refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially
better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and
internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Red Bull Gmbh, the DPS
Group, Kraft Foods Inc., and Nestle Beverage Company. We also compete with companies
that are smaller or primarily national or local in operations such as Tree Top
and Ocean Spray. Our products also compete with private label brands such as
those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains, and club
stores. Our Java MonsterTM product line competes directly with Starbucks
Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee
and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Caribou Coffee, Cinnabon
coffee drinks, Godiva dairy based drinks and Full Throttle Coffee.

 

There can be no assurance that we will not encounter
difficulties in maintaining our current revenues or market share or position
due to competition in the beverage industry. If our revenues decline, our
business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely
affected.

 

We derive a substantial portion of revenues from
our energy drinks and competitive pressure in the “energy drink” category could
adversely affect our operating results.

 

A substantial portion of our sales are derived from our energy drinks,
including in particular our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. Our DSD
segment, which comprises primarily energy drinks, represented 91.9% of net
sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. Any decrease in the sales of
our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks could significantly adversely affect
our future revenues and net income. Historically, we have experienced
substantial competition from new entrants in the energy drink category. Our
energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear,
Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It,
Vitaminenergy, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee,
Rockstar Roasted, Full Throttle Coffee, 5-Hour Energy Shot, Stacker 2, Red Bull
Energy Shot, Redline Energy Shot, NOS Energy Shot, Rockstar Energy Shot, Full
Throttle Quick Shot, Amp Energy Shot and many other brands. A number of
companies who market and distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in different
packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe,
Snapple, Arizona, Fuse, and Vitamin Water, have added supplements to their
products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy
beverages or as having “functional” benefits. 
In addition, certain large companies such as TCCC and PepsiCo, market
and/or distribute products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain
Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and Vault. Competitive pressures in the energy drink
category could impact our revenues or we could experience price erosion or
lower market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our
business and results.

 

We rely
on bottlers and other contract packers to manufacture our products. If we are
unable to maintain good relationships with our bottlers and contract packers
and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes constrained or
unavailable to us, our business could suffer.

 

We do not directly manufacture our products, but
instead outsource such manufacturing to bottlers and other contract packers. In the event of a disruption or delay, we
may be unable to procure alternative packing facilities at commercially
reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. In addition,
there are limited alternative packing facilities in the United States, Canada,
Australia, Brazil, the United Kingdom and Europe with adequate capacity and/or
suitable equipment for many of

 

20












 

our products, including Hansen’s® brand energy drinks
in 8.3-ounce cans, our PET tea line, Hansen’s® Sparkling beverages in
10.5-ounce sleek cans, aseptic juice products, juices in 64-ounce PET plastic
bottles, Monster Energy®, NitrousTM Monster Energy®, X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer, Lost® EnergyTM and Rumba®, Samba, Tango energy drinks in
6.75-ounce and/or 8.3-ounce and/or 12-ounce and/or 15.5-ounce and/or 16-ounce
and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml aluminum cans and/or 550ml BRE aluminum
cans and/or 500ml glass bottles and/or 12-ounce, 15-ounce and 24-ounce aluminum
cap cans, our Java MonsterTM product line in 15-ounce aluminum cans,
Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTM’s, our
Peace TeaTM product
line in 23-ounce aluminum cans and other products. A disruption or delay in
production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues from
such products as alternative co-packing facilities in the United States and
abroad with adequate capacity may not be available for such products either at
commercially reasonable rates, and/or within a reasonably short time period, if
at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products could
adversely affect our revenues.

 

We rely on bottlers and distributors to distribute our DSD
products.  If we are unable to maintain
good relationships with our existing bottlers and distributors and/or secure
such bottlers and distributors, our business could suffer.

 

We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering
into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery
distributors having established sales, marketing and distribution
organizations. Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and
manufacture and/or distribute other soda, carbonated and non-carbonated brands
and other beverage products (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic), including
energy drinks. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.

 

The
TCCC North American Bottlers and AB Distributors are our primary domestic and
international distributors of our Monster Energy® beverages. If we are unable
to maintain good relationships with the TCCC North American Bottlers and AB
Distributors, or if the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or AB Distributors do
not market and promote our products above the products of our competitors,
sales of our Monster Energy® beverages could be adversely affected. The
recently announced proposed transactions between CCE and TCCC could affect our
existing distribution arrangements. Detailed deal terms have not yet been fully
disclosed. We are in the process of evaluating the potential impact the
proposed transactions could have on the distribution of our products.

 

The marketing efforts of our distributors are important for our
success. If our DSD brands prove to be less attractive to our existing bottlers
and distributors and/or if we fail to attract additional bottlers and
distributors, and/or our bottlers and/or distributors do not market and promote
our products with greater focus in preference to the products of our
competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could
be adversely affected.

 

Our customers are material to our success.  If we are unable to maintain good
relationships with our existing customers, our business could suffer.

 

Unilateral decisions could be taken by our distributors, convenience
chains, grocery chains, specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers
to discontinue carrying all or any of our products that they are carrying at
any time, which could cause our business to suffer.

 

The DPS Group, a former customer of the DSD division, accounted for
approximately 13% and 16% of our net sales for the years ended December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. Our distribution agreement with the DPS Group was
terminated by us effective November 9, 2008. The related terminated
distributor territories are now serviced by a combination of the TCCC North
American Bottlers and AB Distributors. If the TCCC North American Bottlers
and/or AB Distributors are generally not as successful in selling our products
as the DPS Group was, this could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and consolidated results of operations.

 

21












 

CCE, a customer of the DSD segment with sales in specific markets in
the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and certain countries in Europe,
accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales for the year ended December 31,
2009. Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), a customer of both the DSD
and Warehouse divisions, accounted for approximately 9%, 11% and 12% of our net
sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. A decision by CCE, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club) or
any other large customer to decrease the amount purchased from us or to cease
carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and consolidated results of operations.

 

Increases
in cost or shortages of raw materials or increases in costs of co-packing could
harm our business.

 

The principal raw materials used by us are aluminum cans, PET plastic
bottles, as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk and cream, the
costs of which are subject to fluctuations. In addition, certain of our co-pack
arrangements allow such co-packers to increase their charges based on certain
of their own cost increases. We are uncertain whether the prices of any of the
above or any other raw materials or ingredients will rise in the future and
whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our customers. We
do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage the risks
associated with securing sufficient ingredients or raw materials.

 

In addition, some of these raw materials, such as
certain sizes of cans, are available from a limited number of suppliers.

 

Our
failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect
our business and financial results.

 

We may
not correctly estimate demand for our products. 
Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise,
particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid
growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for
our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials
including, but not limited to, PET plastic bottles, cans, glass, labels,
sucralose, flavors, supplements, juice concentrates, certain sweeteners, or
packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term
basis. Moreover, industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates,
supplements and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the
future, be experienced. Such shortages could interfere with and/or delay
production of certain of our products and could have a material adverse effect
on our business and financial results. We generally do not use hedging
agreements or alternative instruments to manage this risk.

 

The costs
of packaging supplies are subject to price increases from time to time and we
may be unable to pass all or some of such increased costs on to our customers.

 

Many of our packaging supplies contracts allow our
suppliers to alter the costs they charge us for packaging supplies based on
changes in the costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce
those packaging supplies, such as resin for PET bottles, aluminum for cans and
pulp and paper for cartons and/or trays. These changes in the prices we pay for
our packaging supplies occur at certain predetermined times that vary by
product and supplier. In some cases, we fix the prices of certain packaging
supplies for a reasonable period. In other cases, we bear the risk of increases
in the costs of these packaging supplies, including the underlying costs of the
commodities that comprise these packaging supplies. We do not use derivative
instruments to manage this risk. If the costs of these packaging supplies
increase, we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers through
corresponding adjustments to the prices we charge, which could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.

 

22











 

We rely
upon our ongoing relationships with our key flavor suppliers.  If we are unable to source our flavors on
acceptable terms from our key suppliers, we could suffer disruptions in our
business.

 

Generally,
flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors. Consequently, we
do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of
our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain these
flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. If we must
replace a flavor supplier, we could experience temporary disruptions in our
ability to deliver products to our customers which could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.

 

Our
intellectual property rights are critical to our success, and the loss of such
rights could materially adversely affect our business.

 

We own numerous trademarks that are very important
to our business.  We also own the
copyright in and to a portion of the content on the packaging of our products.
We regard our trademarks, copyrights, and similar intellectual property as
critical to our success and attempt to protect such intellectual property with
registered and common law trademarks and copyrights, restrictions on disclosure
and other actions to prevent infringement. However, there can be no assurance
that other third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and
similar proprietary rights. If we lose some or all of our intellectual property
rights, our business may be materially adversely affected.

 

If we are
unable to maintain brand image or product quality, or if we encounter product
recalls, our business may suffer.

 

Our success depends on our ability to build and
maintain brand image for our existing products, new products and brand
extensions. We have no assurance that our advertising, marketing and
promotional programs will have the desired impact on our products’ brand image
and on consumer preferences. Product quality and/or ingredient content issues,
efficacy or lack thereof, real or imagined, or allegations of product
contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the
affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. We may be
required from time to time to recall products entirely or from specific
co-packers, markets or batches. Product recalls could adversely affect our
profitability and our brand image. We do not maintain recall insurance.

 

While
we have to date not experienced any credible product liability litigation,
there is no assurance that we will not experience such litigation in the
future. In the event we were to experience product liability claims or a
product recall, our financial condition and business operations could be
materially adversely effected.

 

If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels
or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient
quantities, or if our retailers’ inventory levels are too high, our operating
results will be adversely affected.

 

If we do not accurately
anticipate the future demand for a particular product or the time it will take
to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels will not be appropriate and our
results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to meet our
shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or
retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be
delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis,
we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If the
inventory of our products held by our distributors and/or retailers is too
high, they will not place orders for additional products, which would
unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results.

 

If we are
not able to retain the full-time services of senior management there may be an
adverse effect on our operations and/or our operating performance until we find
suitable replacements.

 

23












 

Our business is dependent, to a large extent, upon
the services of our senior management. 
We do not maintain key person life insurance for any members of our
senior management. The loss of services of either Mr. Sacks, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Schlosberg, President and Chief Financial
Officer, Mr. Hall, President of the Monster Beverage Division, or any other key
members of our senior management could adversely affect our business until
suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of personnel
with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to
locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms.

 

Climate
change may negatively affect our business.

 

There is concern that a gradual increase in global
average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around
the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters.
While warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of
our products, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural
productivity in certain regions, which may limit availability or increase the
cost of certain key ingredients used in our products. Increased frequency or
duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production
capabilities, disrupt our supply chain including, without limitation, the
availability of and/or result in higher prices for juice concentrates and
natural flavors, or impact demand for our products. In addition, public
expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in
increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to
make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the
effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business
and results of operations. Sales of our products may also be influenced to some
extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Weather
conditions may influence consumer demand for certain of our beverages, which
could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

 

Potential
changes in accounting practices and/or taxation may adversely affect our
financial results.

 

We cannot predict the impact that future changes in
accounting standards or practices may have on our financial results. New
accounting standards could be issued that change the way we record revenues,
expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could
adversely affect our reported earnings. Increases in direct and indirect income
tax rates could affect after tax income. 
Equally, increases in indirect taxes (including environmental taxes
pertaining to the disposal of beverage containers) could affect our products’
affordability and reduce our sales.

 

Volatility
of stock price may restrict sale opportunities.

 

Our
stock price is affected by a number of factors, including stockholder
expectations, financial results, the introduction of new products by us and our
competitors, general economic and market conditions, estimates and projections
by the investment community and public comments by other persons and many other
factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to achieve
analysts’ earnings forecasts, which may be based on projected volumes and sales
of many product types and/or new products, certain of which are more profitable
than others. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve projected
levels or mixes of product sales. As a result, our stock price is subject to
significant volatility and stockholders may not be able to sell our stock at
attractive prices. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, our
stock price high was $44.02 and stock price low was $27.91.

 

Provisions
in our organizational documents and control by insiders may prevent changes in
control even if such changes would be beneficial to other stockholders.

 

Our organizational documents may limit changes in
control. Furthermore, as of February 12, 2010, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg
together may be deemed to control approximately 24.8% of our outstanding common
stock. Consequently, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg could exercise
significant control over matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders,
including electing directors, amending organizational documents and
disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt, even though
such actions may be favorable to the other common stockholders.

 

24












 

Our cash
flow may not be sufficient to fund our long term goals.

 

We may
be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to support our capital expenditure
plans and general operating activities. In addition, the terms and/or
availability of our credit facility and/or the activities of our creditors
could affect the financing of our future growth.

 

Our investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may
cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.

 

At December 31,
2009, we had $328.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and $99.3 million in
short- and long-term investments. We have historically invested these amounts
in U.S. Treasury bills, government agencies and municipal securities (which may
have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and
money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are
subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may
be exacerbated by U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various
sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. These
market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative
adverse effect on our future results of operations, liquidity and financial
condition. At the current time, we are not increasing our investments in
auction rate securities nor investing in corporate bonds.

 

Certain of our short-term investments and all of our
long-term investments are comprised of municipal or educational related or
other public body notes with an auction reset feature (“auction rate securities”).
The majority of these notes carry an investment grade or better credit rating
and are additionally backed by various federal agencies and/or monoline
insurance companies. The applicable interest rate is reset at pre-determined intervals,
usually every 7 to 35 days. Liquidity for these auction rate securities
was typically provided by an auction process which allowed holders to sell
their notes at periodic auctions. At December 31, 2009, we held auction
rate securities with a face value of $96.4 million (amortized cost basis of
$92.0 million). During the year ended December 31, 2009, the auctions for
these auction rate securities failed. We determined that there was an
impairment of our auction rate securities of $12.1 million, resulting in a fair
value of $84.3 million, which is included in short and long-term investments in
our consolidated financial statements. We determined that of the $12.1 million
impairment of our auction rate securities, $7.7 million was deemed temporary. This
amount has been recorded, net of a tax benefit of $3.1 million, as a component
of accumulated other comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31,
2009.  In addition, we determined that
$3.9 million of the impairment was an other-than-temporary impairment and
recorded a charge in other income (expense) in our consolidated financial
statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 ($0.5 million had been
previously deemed other-than-temporary and was charged to other income
(expense) for the year ended December 31, 2008.) There is no assurance
that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment
portfolio will succeed. The auction failures appear to have been attributable
to inadequate buyers and/or buying demand and/or the lack of support from
financial advisors and sponsors. In the event that there is a failed auction,
the indenture governing the security in some cases requires the issuer to pay
interest at a default rate that is above market rates for similar instruments.
The securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue and/or
pay interest at their predetermined default rates and be auctioned every 7 to
35 days until their respective auction succeeds, the issuer calls the
securities, they mature or we are able to sell the securities to third parties.
As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of
our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited. Consequently,
these securities, except those that were redeemed at par after December 31,
2009 and 2008, are classified as long-term investments in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.

 

If the
issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to refinance their debts
and call the notes or successfully close future auctions and their credit
ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional impairment charges
on these investments in the future. If uncertainties in the credit and capital
markets continue or there are ratings downgrades on the auction rate securities
held by us, we may be

 

25












 

required to recognize
additional impairments on these investments. We may be required to wait until
market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity
of the underlying notes (up to 40 years) to realize our investments’
recorded value (See “Part II, Item 7A – Qualitative And Quantitative
Disclosures About Market Risks” and “Part II, Item 8, Note 2 and 3 in our
consolidated financial statements).

 

If we fail to maintain effective
disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial
reporting on a consolidated basis, our stock price and investor confidence in
our Company could be materially and adversely affected.

 

We are required to maintain both disclosure controls
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that are effective
for the purposes described in “Part II, Item 9A – Controls and Procedures.”
If we fail to do so, our business, results of operations, financial condition
or the value of our stock could be materially harmed.

 

Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to
significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results.

 

We are
a party, from time to time, to various litigation claims and legal proceedings,
including, but not limited to, intellectual property, fraud, unfair business
practices and false advertising, breach of contract claims, securities actions
and shareholder derivative actions. Material legal proceedings are described
more fully in “Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” and in Part II,
Item 8, Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K.

 

Defending
these proceedings will result in significant ongoing expenditures and the
continued diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation
of our business, which could have a negative effect on our business operations.
Our failure to successfully defend or settle any of these litigations or legal
proceedings could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our
insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions,
revenue and profitability, and could cause the market value of our common stock
to decline.

 

We must continually
maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems.

 

We
rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations. During
2009, we commenced the implementation of the SAP enterprise resource planning
system to replace our legacy systems in North America. This implementation
subjects us to take on inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and
changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer
orders, potential disruption of the internal control structure, substantial
capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or
difficulties in transitioning to a new system. The implementation of this
system may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs
the costs of implementation, or at all. Any information technology system
disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an
adverse effect on our business and operations. As of January 2010, we had
completed our North American transition to the SAP enterprise resource planning
system. It is our intention to complete the transition for our international
operations within fiscal 2010. We estimate the remaining costs for
implementation of the initiative will be approximately $0.8 million.

 

ITEM 1B