Item 1A – Risk Factors” below.
 
2014 Product Introductions
 
During 2014, we continued to expand our existing product lines and flavors and further develop our distribution markets.  In particular, we continued to focus on developing and marketing beverages that fall within the category generally described as the “alternative” beverage category. During 2014, we introduced a number of new products, including the following:
 
·                        Punch Monster® Baller’s Blend (formerly Dub Edition) (January 2014).
·                        Punch Monster® Mad Dog (formerly Dub Edition) (January 2014).
·                        Peace Tea Beverage Company™ Viva Mango™, a mango flavored juice drink (February 2014).
·                        Monster Energy® Valentino Rossi, a carbonated energy drink (May 2014).
·                       Hubert’s® Organic Lemonade, a line of certified organic lemonades in a variety of flavors (May 2014).
·                       Monster Energy® Ultra Black™, a carbonated energy drink which contains zero calories and zero sugar, launched as a summer promotion with 7-eleven (July 2014).
·                       Monster Energy® Unleaded, a carbonated energy drink which contains no caffeine (August 2014).
·                       Monster Energy® Ultra Sunrise™, a carbonated energy drink which contains zero calories and zero sugar (September 2014). 
 
5






Table of Contents
 
In the normal course of business we discontinue certain products and/or product lines. Those products or product lines discontinued in 2014, either individually or in aggregate, did not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
 
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the TCCC Transaction Agreements, upon the closing of the TCCC Transaction, the Company will transfer its non-energy drink business (including Hansen’s® Natural Sodas, Peace Tea®, Hubert’s® Lemonade and Hansen’s® Juice Products) to TCCC.
 
Products – DSD Segment
 
Monster Energy® Brand Energy Drinks:
 
Monster Energy® Drinks - In 2002, we launched a new carbonated energy drink under the Monster Energy® brand name in 16-ounce cans, which was almost double the size of our original Hansen’s® brand energy drinks (in 8.3-ounce cans) and the vast majority of competitive energy drinks on the market at that time. Our Monster Energy® drinks contain vitamins, minerals, nutrients, herbs and other dietary ingredients (collectively, “dietary ingredients”) and are marketed through our full service distributor network. We primarily offer the following products under the Monster Energy® drink product line: Monster Energy®, Lo-Carb Monster Energy®, Monster Assault®, Juice Monster™ Khaos®, Juice Monster™ Ripper®, Monster Energy® Absolutely Zero, Monster Energy® Import, Punch Monster® Baller’s Blend (formerly Dub Edition), Punch Monster® Mad Dog (formerly Dub Edition), M3® Monster Energy® Super Concentrate energy drinks, Übermonster® Energy Brew™, Monster Energy® Zero Ultra, Monster Energy® Ultra Blue, Monster Energy® Ultra Red,  Monster Energy® Ultra Black™, Monster Energy® Ultra Sunrise™, Monster Energy® Valentino Rossi, Monster Energy® Unleaded, and Monster Cuba-Lima®.
 
Java Monster® Coffee + Energy Drinks - A line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee + energy drinks. We offer the following products under the Java Monster® product line: Java Monster® Kona Blend, Java Monster® Loca Moca®, Java Monster® Mean Bean®, Java Monster® Vanilla Light, Java Monster® Irish Blend® and Java Monster® Cappuccino.
 
Muscle Monster® Energy Shakes – A line of non-carbonated energy shakes containing 25-grams of protein. We offer the following products under the Muscle Monster® Energy Shake product line: Chocolate, Vanilla, Coffee, Strawberry and Peanut Butter Cup.
 
Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology® Energy Drinks - A line of carbonated energy drinks containing nitrous oxide. We offer the following products under the Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology® product line: Super Dry™ and Anti Gravity®.
 
Monster Rehab® Tea + Energy Drinks - A line of non-carbonated energy drinks with electrolytes. We offer the following products under the Monster Rehab® drink line: Monster Rehab® Tea + Lemonade + Energy, Monster Rehab® Rojo Tea + Energy, Monster Rehab® Green Tea + Energy, Monster Rehab® Tea + Orangeade + Energy and Monster Rehab® Tea + Pink Lemonade + Energy.
 
6






Table of Contents
 
Other:
 
Peace Tea® Iced Teas and Juice Drinks - A line of ready-to-drink iced teas and juice drinks. We offer the following teas and juice drinks under the Peace Tea® product line: Green Tea, Sweet Lemon Tea, Razzleberry Tea, Pink Lemonade Tea, Georgia Peach Tea, Sno-Berry, Texas-Style Sweet Tea, Caddy Shack® Tea + Lemonade as well as Viva Mango™ juice drinks.
 
Products – Warehouse Segment
 
Hansen’s® Brand Sodas - Hansen’s® brand sodas have been a leading natural soda brand on the West Coast of the United States for more than 35 years and are made with natural flavors. Hansen’s® brand sodas, sweetened with cane sugar, and Hansen’s® Diet Sodas, sweetened with Splenda® no calorie sweetener and Acesulfame-K, contain no preservatives, sodium, or caffeine. We offer the following sodas in a variety of flavors under the Hansen’s® brand name: Hansen’s® Sodas, Hansen’s® Diet Sodas and Hansen’s® Natural Mixers. We also offer unsweetened Hansen’s® Sparkling Waters and Hansen’s® Sparkling Fruit Beverages, a line of sparkling water beverages with 10 calories per serving and naturally sweetened with apple juice, stevia leaf extract and monk fruit extract in a variety of flavors.
 
Blue Sky® Products - Our Blue Sky® products contain no preservatives, artificial sweeteners or caffeine (other than our Blue Sky® energy drinks) and are made with natural flavors. We offer the following products under the Blue Sky® product line in a variety of flavors: Blue Sky® Natural Soda, Blue Sky® Zero Calorie Sodas (sweetened with Truvia® brand stevia leaf extract), Blue Sky® Organic Natural Sodas, Blue Sky® Seltzer Waters, Blue Sky® Blue Energy® Drinks, Blue Sky® Zero Calorie Blue Energy® Drinks, Blue Sky® Juiced Energy Drinks and Blue Sky® Café Energy Drinks.
 
Hansen’s® Energy Drinks - Our original Hansen’s® Energy Drinks compete in the “functional” beverage category, namely, beverages that provide a benefit in addition to simply delivering refreshment. We offer the following products under the Hansen’s® Energy Drink product line: Hansen’s® Energy and Hansen’s® Energy Diet Red. In May 2014, we added Sun Burst and 1-2-3 Punch flavors to the Hansen’s® Energy product line.
 
Hansen’s® Juice Products - Our fruit juice product line includes Hansen’s® Natural Apple Juice, Apple Cider, Grape Juice, White Grape Juice, Pineapple Juice, Apple Grape Juice, Apple Strawberry Juice, Orange Juice, Cranberry Juice, Cranberry-Apple Juice, Cranberry-Grape Juice, Apple Orange Pineapple Juice and Organic Apple Juice. Our juice product line contains 100% juice and 120% of the United States Recommended Daily Allowances (the “USRDA”) for vitamin C. In May 2014, we added Hansen’s® Natural Organic Fruit Punch and Organic Berry Juices. Hansen’s® juice products compete in the shelf-stable juice category.
 
Hansen’s® Aseptic Juices - We offer a number of aseptically packed boxed juice products, including our dual-branded multi-vitamin 100% juice line, which we sell in conjunction with Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”) through Costco stores. We also offer our Hansen’s® Natural line of multi-vitamin 100% juices, containing eleven essential vitamins and six essential minerals, Hansen’s® Natural Organic Juices and Hansen’s® Natural Coconut Water Twist®, a line of fruit and coconut water juices containing 100% of the daily recommended allowance of vitamin C. In October 2014, we added Hansen’s® Natural Kale Apple Pineapple to our boxed juice product line.
 
Our Hansen’s® Junior Juice® product line is a 100% juice line targeted at toddlers and preschoolers. These juices have added calcium and all flavors contain 100% of the daily recommended allowance of vitamin C. We also offer Hansen’s® Organic Junior Juice® as well as Hansen’s® Organic Junior Water®, the latter, a lightly flavored reduced calorie beverage, both of which also contain 100% of the daily recommended allowance of vitamin C.
 
7






Table of Contents
 
Hubert’s® Lemonades - Our original Hubert’s® Lemonade is a line of premium ready-to-drink lemonades available in a variety of flavors. Hubert’s® Lemonade is sweetened with cane sugar and stevia leaf extract and contains no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, artificial flavors or caffeine. We also offer Hubert’s® Diet Lemonade, a line with 10 calories per a serving and naturally sweetened with stevia leaf extract, monk fruit extract and cane sugar in a variety of flavors. We also market Hubert’s® Half & Half, a line of premium ready-to-drink lemonade + tea drinks, in a variety of flavors. In January 2014, we added Peach and Watermelon flavors to the original Hubert’s® Lemonade line.  In March 2014, we introduced Hubert’s® Organic Lemonade, a line of certified organic lemonades in a variety of flavors. In May 2014, we also added a Watermelon Habanero limited edition flavor to the original Hubert’s® Lemonade line.
 
PRE® Drink Mixes - Our Hansen’s®  Natural PRE® Drink Mix is a line of probiotic digestive wellness powder drink mixes containing specially formulated blends by Jarrow Formulas. PRE® probiotic powder drink mix is sweetened with cane sugar and stevia leaf extract and is available in a variety of fruit flavors.
 
Other Products
 
We continue to evaluate and, where considered appropriate, introduce additional flavors and types of beverages to complement our existing product lines. We may also evaluate, and where considered appropriate, introduce additional types of consumer products we consider are complementary to our existing products and/or to which our brand names are able to add value.
 
We also develop and supply, on a limited exclusive basis, selected beverages in different formats to a limited number of customers, with the objective of solidifying and/or enhancing our relationship with those customers.
 
Products – Packaging
 
We package our products in a variety of different package types and sizes including, but not limited to, aluminum cans, sleek aluminum cans, glass bottles, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) plastic bottles, high density polyethylene plastic bottles, aseptic boxes and stick packs.
 
Manufacture and Distribution
 
We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource the manufacturing process to third party bottlers and contract packers.
 
We purchase concentrates, sweeteners, juices, flavors, dietary ingredients, cans, bottles, aseptic boxes, caps, labels, trays, boxes and other ingredients for our beverage products from our suppliers, which are delivered to our various third party bottlers and co-packers. In some cases, certain common supplies may be purchased by our various third party bottlers and co-packers. Depending on the product, the third party bottlers or packers add filtered water and/or other ingredients (including dietary ingredients) for the manufacture and packaging of the finished products into our approved containers in accordance with our formulas. Depending on the beverage, the bottler/packer may also add carbonation to the products as part of the production process.
 
Co-Packing Arrangements
 
All of our beverage products are manufactured by various third party bottlers and co-packers situated throughout the United States and abroad, under separate arrangements with each party. The majority of our co-packaging arrangements are generally on a month-to-month basis or are terminable upon request and do not generally obligate us to produce any minimum quantities of products within specified periods.
 
In some instances subject to agreement, certain equipment may be purchased by us and installed at the facilities of our co-packers to enable them to produce certain of our products. In general, such equipment remains our property and is returned to us upon termination of the packing arrangements with such co-packers, unless we are reimbursed by the co-packer via a per case credit over a pre-determined number of cases that are produced at the facilities concerned.
 
8






Table of Contents
 
We are generally responsible for arranging for the purchase and delivery to our third party bottlers and co-packers of the containers in which our beverage products are packaged.
 
We pack certain of our products in a number of locations both domestically and internationally, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Czech Republic, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States, to enable us to produce products closer to the markets where they are sold, with the objective of reducing freight costs as well as transportation-related product damages. As distribution volumes increase in both our domestic and international markets, we will continue to source additional packing arrangements closer to such markets to further reduce freight costs. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products and/or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, aseptic boxes, glass, labels, flavors, juice concentrates, dietary ingredients, other ingredients and certain sweeteners, and/or procure adequate packing arrangements and/or obtain adequate or timely shipment of our products, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. (See “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors”).
 
Our production arrangements are generally of short duration or are terminable upon our request. For certain of our products, including our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks, our Peace Tea® products, our Hansen’s® brand energy drinks, our aseptic juice products, our Hubert’s® lemonades, our Java Monster® product line, our Muscle Monster® product line, our Punch Monster® product line and certain of our other products, there are limited co-packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment to package our products. We believe a short disruption or delay in production would not significantly affect our revenues; however, as alternative co-packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate long-term capacity may not be available for such products, either at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all, a lengthy disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues.
 
We continue to actively seek alternative and/or additional advantageously located co-packing facilities around the world, particularly in Asia, Canada, Central America, Europe, Mexico, the Middle East, South Africa, South America and the United States with adequate capacity and capability for the production of our various products to minimize transportation costs and transportation-related damages as well as to mitigate the risk of a disruption in production and/or importation.
 
Distribution Agreements
 
During 2014, we continued to expand distribution of our products in both our domestic and international markets, and our Monster Energy® drinks are now sold in approximately 116 countries and territories around the world.  We have entered into agreements with various distributors providing for the distribution of our products during initial terms of up to twenty years, which may be renewed thereafter for additional terms ranging from one to five years.  Such agreements remain in effect for their then current term as long as our products are being distributed, but may be terminated by either party upon written notice.  We are generally entitled to terminate such agreements at any time without cause upon payment of a termination fee.
 
Certain of our material distribution agreements, as amended from time to time, are described below:
 
(a)       Monster Beverages Off-Premise Distribution Coordination Agreement and the Allied Products Distribution Coordination Agreement (jointly, the “Off-Premise Agreements”) with Anheuser-
 
9






Table of Contents
 
Busch, Inc., a Missouri corporation (“AB”), under which select Anheuser-Busch distributors (the “AB Distributors”) distribute and sell, primarily our Monster Energy® drinks, as well as additional products that may be agreed between the parties in various territories within the United States. In February 2015, in accordance with its existing agreements with the applicable AB Distributors, the Company sent notices of termination to the majority of the AB Distributors in the U.S. for the termination of their respective distribution agreements, to be effective at various dates beginning in March 2015 (see Note 8 “Distribution Agreements” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements).
 
(b)      On-Premise Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “On-Premise Agreement”) with AB, under which select AB Distributors distribute and sell our Monster Energy® drinks to food service on-premise accounts. In February 2015, in accordance with its existing agreements with the applicable AB Distributors, the Company sent notices of termination to the majority of the AB Distributors in the U.S. for the termination of their respective distribution agreements, to be effective at various dates beginning in March 2015 (see Note 8 “Distribution Agreements” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements).
 
(c)       Monster Energy Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC North American Coordination Agreement”) with TCCC, pursuant to which we have designated, and in the future may designate, subject to TCCC’s approval, territories in Canada and the United States in which bottlers from TCCC’s network of wholly or partially-owned and independent bottlers, including Coca-Cola Refreshments USA, Inc. (“CCR”),(formerly known as Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (“CCE”)), Coca-Cola Bottling Company (“CCBC”), CCBCC Operations, LLC (“Consolidated”), United Bottling Contracts Company, LLC (“United”), and other TCCC independent bottlers (collectively, the “TCCC North American Bottlers”) will distribute and sell primarily our Monster Energy® drinks.  In connection with the TCCC Transaction, the parties expect to amend and restate the TCCC North American Coordination Agreement, including to change the procedure under which the TCCC North American Bottlers are appointed in specified territories.
 
(d)      Monster Energy Distribution Agreement with CCR, pursuant to which CCR distributes, directly and through certain sub-distributors, primarily our Monster Energy® drinks in portions of the United States. On October 2, 2010, TCCC completed its acquisition of the North American business operations of CCE (now CCR), through a merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of TCCC. The surviving wholly owned subsidiary was subsequently renamed CCR, and currently distributes our Monster Energy® drinks in those portions of the United States in which CCE previously distributed such drinks. Concurrently with this acquisition, a new entity, which retained the name Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (“New CCE”) was formed, which currently distributes our Monster Energy® drinks in certain European territories (see paragraph (h) below).
 
(e)       Distribution agreements with Consolidated, United and other TCCC North American Bottlers for the distribution of our Monster Energy® drinks in various territories within the United States.
 
(f)        Monster Energy Canadian Distribution Agreement with CCBC (now Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada, Ltd. (“CCRC”)), pursuant to which CCBC was appointed to distribute and sell, directly and through certain sub-distributors, our Monster Energy® drinks in Canada.
 
(g)       Monster Energy International Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC International Coordination Agreement”) with TCCC, pursuant to which we have designated, and in the future may designate, countries in which we wish to appoint TCCC distributors to distribute and sell our Monster Energy® drinks, subject to TCCC’s approval. In connection with the TCCC Transaction, the parties expect to amend and restate the TCCC International Coordination Agreement, including to change the procedure under which the TCCC distributors are appointed in specified territories.
 
10






Table of Contents
 
(h)      Monster Energy International Distribution Agreement and Monster Energy Belgium Distribution Agreement with New CCE, pursuant to which New CCE was appointed to distribute directly, and through certain sub-distributors, our Monster Energy® drinks in Great Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Monaco and Sweden.
 
(i)          Distribution agreements with bottlers of the Coca-Cola Hellenic group (“Coca-Cola Hellenic”) for the distribution of certain of our Monster Energy® drinks in Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Ireland, Slovakia, Cyprus, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Switzerland and Poland.
 
Distribution levels vary by product and geographic location. Gross sales outside the United States accounted for $657.9 million, $580.6 million and $513.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The distribution rights relating to each territory for which the Company sent notices of termination in February 2015, including certain AB Distributors in the U.S. described above, will be transitioned to TCCC’s network of owned or controlled bottlers/distributors and independent bottling and distribution partners as of the effective date of termination of the current third party’s rights in the applicable territory, and in connection therewith, the agreements referred to in clauses (d)-(f) will be amended. The agreements referred to in clauses (h) and (i) are also expected to be amended upon or following the closing of the TCCC Transaction.
 
We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with other regional bottlers or direct store delivery distributors with established sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other beverage products. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.
 
Raw Materials and Suppliers
 
The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products are aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles as well as flavors, juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk, cream, protein, dietary ingredients and other packaging materials, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations.
 
We purchase beverage flavors, concentrates, juices, dietary ingredients, cane sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as well as other ingredients from independent suppliers located in the United States and abroad.
 
Generally, raw materials utilized by us in our business are readily available from numerous sources. However, certain raw materials are manufactured by only one company.  We purchase certain flavors, vitamin blends and herbs, certain other dietary ingredients and sucralose, as well as certain other ingredients, from single manufacturers. Additionally, certain of our containers and flavors are only manufactured by single companies.
 
With regard to our Java Monster® and Muscle Monster® product lines, the dairy and protein industries are subject to shortages and increased demand from time to time, which may result in higher prices.
 
With regard to our fruit juice and juice-drink products, the fruit juice industry is subject to variability in demand and weather conditions, which may result in higher prices and/or lower consumer demand for juices.
 
11






Table of Contents
 
Generally, flavor suppliers own the proprietary rights to their flavor formulas which they make available to customers for specific use in the production of their customers’ products.  Consequently, we do not have possession of the list of flavor ingredients or flavor formulas used in the production of our products and certain of our blended concentrates (our “Product Flavor Formulas”) and we may be unable to obtain comparable flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. Our flavor suppliers generally do not make flavors used in our products available to third parties. We have also entered into agreements with certain of our flavor suppliers who have agreed, subject to the terms of such agreements, to maintain our Product Flavor Formulas in confidence, not to use our Product Flavor Formulas in the production of other customers’ products and to provide us with access to our Product Flavor Formulas under certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of the flavor supplier. We have identified alternative suppliers for many of the ingredients contained in many of our beverages. However, industry-wide shortages of certain fruits and fruit juices, coffee, tea, dietary ingredients and sweeteners have been, and could from time to time in the future be, encountered, which could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products.
 
We continually endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for certain of our flavors and concentrates as well as to negotiate arrangements with suppliers, which would enable us to obtain access to certain concentrates or our flavor formulas in certain circumstances. We have been partially successful in these endeavors. Additionally, in a limited number of cases, contractual restrictions and/or the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals and licenses may limit our ability to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers, manufacturers and/or distributors.
 
In connection with the development of new products and flavors, independent suppliers bear a large portion of the expense of product development, thereby enabling us to develop new products and flavors at what we consider to be reasonable economic levels. We have historically developed and successfully introduced new products, flavors and packaging for our products and intend to continue to develop and introduce additional new beverages, flavors and innovative packaging.
 
Competition
 
The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors as well as promotional and marketing strategies. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.
 
Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, brand exposure and marketing as well as pricing. We also compete for distributors who will give our products more focus than those of our competitors, provide stable and reliable distribution and secure adequate shelf space in retail outlets. Competitive pressures in the “alternative”, energy, coffee and “functional” beverage categories could cause our products to be unable to gain or to lose market share or we could experience price erosion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
 
We have experienced and continue to experience competition from new entrants in the energy drink and energy shot categories. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas, juice cocktails and enhanced waters in larger volume packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Sobe Life Water, Vitamin Water, Snapple, Arizona, Fuse, Ocean Spray, Honest Tea, Gold Peak Tea, Activate and Neuro, have added dietary ingredients to their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits. We believe that many of those products contain lower levels of dietary ingredients, principally deliver refreshment and are positioned differently from our energy or “functional” drinks. Our Peace Tea® ready-to-drink iced teas are positioned more closely against those products.
 
12







Table of Contents
 
We are also subject to increasing levels of regulatory issues particularly in relation to the registration and taxation of our products in certain new international markets, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. (See “Government Regulation” below for additional information).
 
We compete not only for consumer preference, but also for maximum marketing and sales efforts by multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors, many of which have a principal affiliation with competing companies and brands. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and in many cases with products of much larger and in some cases better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Inc. (“PepsiCo”), The Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the “DPS Group”), Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods, Inc., Suntory Holdings, Ltd., Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top Inc. (“Tree Top”) and Ocean Spray Cranberries Inc. (“Ocean Spray”). We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local in operation. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.
 
Domestically, our energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, Red Devil, Rip It, Xenergy, 5-Hour Energy Shots, MiO Energy, Stacker 2, VPX Redline Energy Shots, and many other brands. TCCC and PepsiCo also market and/or distribute additional products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX, Mountain Dew Kickstart and Vault. Internationally, our energy drinks compete with Red Bull, Rockstar, Burn, V-Energy, Lucozade, Adrenaline Rush, Relentless and numerous local and private label brands that usually differ from country to country, such as Play, Power Play, Mother, Hell, Shock, Tiger, Boost, TNT, Shark, Hot 6, Nalu, Samurai, Battery, Bullit, Flash Up, Black, Non-Stop, Bomba, Semtex, Vive 100, Dark Dog, Speed, Guaraná, Ultra, Sting and a host of other international brands.
 
Our Java Monster® product line competes directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Seattle’s Best and illy issimo coffee.
 
Our Muscle Monster® product line competes directly with Muscle Milk, Core Power, ABB Pure Pro and Gatorade Recover Protein Shake.
 
Our Peace Tea® ready-to-drink iced tea product line competes directly with Arizona, Lipton, Snapple, Nestea, Xing Tea, Honest Tea, Gold Peak Tea, Fuze Tea and other tea brands.
 
Our natural sodas compete directly with traditional soda products, including those marketed by TCCC, PepsiCo, the DPS Group, Cott Corporation and National Beverage Corporation, as well as with carbonated beverages marketed by smaller or primarily local companies such as Jones Soda Co., Crystal Geyser, J.M. Smucker Company, Reeds, Inc., Zevia and with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.
 
Our apple and other juice products compete directly with Tree Top, Mott’s, Martinelli’s, Welch’s, Ocean Spray, Tropicana, Minute Maid, Langers, Apple and Eve, Seneca, Northland, Juicy Juice, Old Orchard and also with other brands of apple juice and juice blends, including store brands.
 
Our Hubert’s® Lemonades and Hubert’s® Half & Half lemonade + teas compete directly with Calypso, Simply Lemonade, Minute Maid, Cabana, Tropicana and Newman’s Own.
 
In the TCCC Transaction, we will acquire the NOS, Burn, Full Throttle, Play, Power Play, Relentless, Mother, Nalu and Samurai brands and, as a result, our energy drink business will no longer compete with such brands. In addition, as a result of the TCCC Transaction, we will no longer sell ready-to-drink iced tea products, traditional soda products, carbonated beverages, apple juice, juice blends or lemonades.
 
13






Table of Contents
 
Sales and Marketing
 
Our sales and marketing strategy for all our beverages is to focus our efforts on developing brand awareness through image enhancing programs and product sampling. We use our branded vehicles and other promotional vehicles at events where we offer samples of our products to consumers. We utilize “push-pull” methods to enhance shelf and display space exposure in sales outlets (including advertising, in-store promotions and in-store placement of point-of-sale materials, racks, coolers and barrel coolers) to enhance demand from consumers for our products. We also support our brands with prize promotions, price promotions, competitions, endorsements from selected public and sports figures, personality endorsements (including from television and other well-known sports personalities), coupons, sampling and sponsorship of selected causes, events, athletes and teams. In-store posters, outdoor posters, print, radio and television advertising (directly and through our sponsorships and endorsements) and coupons may also be used to promote our brands.
 
We historically marketed our Monster Energy®, Hansen’s® and Blue Energy® energy drink products as dietary supplements in accordance with the statutory definition of “dietary supplement” set forth in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the “FFDC Act”).  However, as permitted under the FFDC Act and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) regulations, we transitioned the labeling and marketing of these energy drink products from dietary supplements to conventional foods beginning in the first quarter of 2013.
 
We believe that one of the keys to success in the beverage industry is differentiation, making our brands and products visually distinctive from other beverages on the shelves of retailers. We review our products and packaging on an ongoing basis and, where practical, endeavor to make them different, better and unique. The labels and graphics for many of our products are redesigned from time to time to maximize their visibility and identification, wherever they may be placed in stores, which we will continue to reevaluate from time to time.
 
Where appropriate, we partner with our retailers and wholesalers to assist our marketing efforts.
 
We decreased expenditures for our sales and marketing programs by approximately 6.3% in 2014 compared to 2013. As of December 31, 2014, we employed 1,538 employees in sales and marketing activities, of which 842 were employed on a full-time basis.
 
Customers
 
Our customers are primarily full service beverage distributors, retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, drug chains, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, health food distributors, food service customers and the military. Gross sales to our various customer types for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 are reflected below. Such information includes sales made by us directly to the customer types concerned, which include our full service beverage distributors in the United States. Such full service beverage distributors in turn sell certain of our products to the same customer types listed below. We limit our description of our customer types to include only our sales to such full service distributors without reference to such distributors’ sales to their own customers.
 
14






Table of Contents
 



     

     

2014    

2013    

2012       


Full   service distributors    

     

62%    

63%    

63%       


Club   stores, drug chains & mass merchandisers    

     

9%    

9%    

9%       


Outside   the U.S.    

     

23%    

23%    

22%       


Retail   grocery, specialty chains and wholesalers    

     

4%    

3%    

4%       


Other    

     

2%    

2%    

2%         
 
Our customers include the TCCC North American Bottlers, New CCE, certain bottlers of Coca-Cola Hellenic, Swire Coca-Cola, USA and certain other Coca-Cola independent bottlers, Asahi, Kalil Bottling Group, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club) Costco and the AB Distributors. In February 2015, in accordance with its existing agreements with the applicable AB Distributors, the Company sent notices of termination to the majority of the AB Distributors in the U.S. for the termination of their respective distribution agreements, to be effective at various dates beginning in March 2015.  The associated distribution rights will be transitioned to TCCC’s network of owned or controlled bottlers/distributors and independent bottling and distribution partners as of the effective date of termination of the AB Distributors’ rights in the applicable territories (see Note 8 “Distribution Agreements” in the notes to consolidated financial statements). CCR accounted for approximately 29%, 29% and 28% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
 
 
Seasonality
 
Sales of ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for the highest sales volumes. The volume of sales in the beverage business may be affected by weather conditions. However, the energy drink category appears to be less seasonal than traditional beverages. Quarterly fluctuations may also be affected by other factors including the introduction of new products, the opening of new markets, particularly internationally, where temperature fluctuations may be more pronounced, the addition of new bottlers and distributors, changes in the mix of the sales of our finished products and increased or decreased advertising and promotional expenses.
 
Intellectual Property
 
We presently have more than 5,200 registered trademarks and pending applications in various countries worldwide, and we apply for new trademarks on an ongoing basis. We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and other intellectual property as very important to our business.  We consider Monster® (registered outside of the United States in certain jurisdictions), Monster Energy®, ®, M Monster Energy®, Monster Rehab®, Java Monster®, Muscle Monster®, Punch Monster®, Juice Monster™, Unleash the Beast®, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®, Hansen’s Natural Cane Soda®, Hansen’s®, Peace Tea®, Blue Sky®, Hubert’s® and Junior Juice® to be our core trademarks.
 
We protect our trademarks by applying for registrations and registering our trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with government agencies in other countries around the world, particularly where our products are distributed and sold.  We assert copyright ownership of the statements, graphics and content appearing on the packaging of our products and in our marketing materials.  We aggressively pursue individuals and/or entities seeking to profit from the unauthorized use of our trademarks and copyrights, including, without limitation, wholesalers, street vendors, retailers, online auction site sellers and website operators. In addition to initiating civil actions against these individuals and entities, we work with law enforcement officials where appropriate.
 
15






Table of Contents
 
Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed as long as the trademarks are in use.
 
We enforce and protect our trademark rights against third parties infringing or disparaging our trademarks by opposing registration of conflicting trademarks, and initiating litigation as necessary.
 
Government Regulation
 
The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are subject to various U.S. federal and state regulations, including but not limited to: the FFDC Act, including as amended by the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and a number of other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, marketing, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are also subject to numerous statutes and regulations.
 
We also may in the future be affected by other existing, proposed and potential future regulations or regulatory actions, including those described below, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  See “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors – Changes in government regulation, or failure to comply with existing regulations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations” below for additional information.
 
Furthermore, legislation may be introduced in the United States and other countries at the federal, state and municipal level in respect of each of the subject areas discussed below.  Public health officials and health advocates are increasingly focused on the public health consequences associated with obesity, especially as the disease affects children, and are seeking legislative change to reduce the consumption of sweetened beverages.  There also has been an increased focus on caffeine content in beverages, as discussed below.
 
In January 2013, the FDA announced that it would be investigating the safety of caffeine in food products, particularly its effects on children and adolescents. Also in January 2013, we received a letter from Representative Edward J. Markey, Senator Richard J. Durbin and Senator Richard Blumenthal requesting information from us to enable them to better understand a number of issues relating in part to an investigation they said has been launched by the FDA examining energy drinks and potential health risks, particularly for groups of vulnerable individuals, including young people and those with pre-existing cardiac conditions. We provided a response to their letter. The Congressmen issued a report and recommendations in April 2013, most of which we had already implemented. The Congressman released a follow-up report in January 2015, recommending inter alia that the energy drink industry not market to consumers under age 18 and not market their products for hydration, and that the FDA develop and release definitions and guidance for this market sector.
 
In July 2013, we received a letter from Michael M. Landa, the former director of the FDA’s Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, asking for documents and information about the Company’s judgment that caffeine in its energy drinks is generally recognized as safe (“GRAS”) for this use. We provided a response to this letter.
 
In August 2013, at the request of the FDA, the Institute of Medicine (“IOM”) conducted a public workshop to review the available science regarding safe levels of caffeine consumption in foods, beverages and dietary supplements and to identify data gaps. The IOM released a report summarizing the workshop proceedings in January 2014.
 
16






Table of Contents
 
In January 2015, the European Food Safety Authority published a draft scientific opinion on the safety of caffeine, particularly in energy drinks. The draft opinion concluded inter alia that daily caffeine intakes from all sources up to 400 milligrams per day do not raise safety concerns for adults in the general population (200 milligrams per day for pregnant women).
 
Product Labeling and Advertising. We are subject to Proposition 65 in California, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in California that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects in excess of certain levels. If we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain other locations where our products are sold, it is difficult to predict whether, or to what extent, such a warning would have an impact on sales of our products in those locations or elsewhere.
 
In addition, the FDA is considering revising regulations with respect to serving size information and nutrition labeling on food and beverage products.  If adopted, we may incur significant costs to alter our existing packaging materials to comply with new regulations. Additionally, revised serving size information may impact and/or reduce and/or otherwise affect the purchase and consumption of our products by consumers.
 
In July 2012, we received a subpoena from a state attorney general for the State of New York in connection with an investigation relating to the advertising, marketing, promotion, ingredients, usage and sale of our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. We cannot predict the outcome of this inquiry and what effect, if any, it may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
In October 2012, we received a written request for information from the City Attorney for the City and County of San Francisco concerning the Company’s advertising and marketing of its Monster Energy® brand energy drinks and specifically concerning the safety of its products for consumption by adolescents. See “Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” below for additional information.
 
Regulations took effect in Canada on January 11, 2013 that inter alia re-classified energy drinks from “natural health products” to “food.”  As a result, energy drinks are required to carry a warning that they are not recommended for children or breast-feeding women and should not be mixed with alcohol.
 
On December 13, 2014, new European Union (the “EU”) regulations governing the labeling of food and beverages took effect. We have amended our EU labels to reflect these changes.
 
In the United States, as permitted under the FFDC Act and FDA regulations, we transitioned the labeling and marketing of our products sold under the Monster Energy®, Hansen’s Energy® and Blue Energy® brands from dietary supplements to conventional foods beginning in the first quarter of 2013.
 
Age and Other Restrictions on Energy Drink Products. Proposals to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or restrict the venues in which energy drinks can be sold and/or to restrict the use of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (“SNAP”) (formerly food stamps) to purchase energy drinks have been raised and/or enacted in certain U.S. states, counties, municipalities and/or in certain foreign countries.
 
In January 2013, Chicago Alderman Ed Burke proposed a ban on the sale and distribution of energy drinks to all consumers, not just minors, in Chicago (the “Chicago Proposal”).  The Chicago Proposal defined “energy drink” to include “a canned or bottled beverage which has 180 milligrams or more of caffeine per single-serve container and contains Taurine or Guarana”.  That proposal has not been enacted to date.
 
17






Table of Contents
 
In March 2013, a bill was proposed in the Illinois General Assembly to ban the sale of energy drinks (defined as beverages containing one or more of the following ingredients: taurine, guarana, glucuronolactone or ginseng) to anyone younger than 18 years of age. In January 2014, Los Angeles City Councilman Bernard Parks proposed a bill to ban anyone younger than 18 years of age from purchasing energy drinks.  In addition, in February 2014, a bill was introduced in the Maryland General Assembly that would prohibit the sale of energy drinks to individuals younger than 18 years of age. These bills have not been enacted to date.
 
In March 2013, Suffolk County enacted two local laws; one bans the distribution of free samples of energy drinks (which the law characterizes as “stimulant drinks”) to individuals under the age of eighteen in that county, and the second bans the sale or distribution of such drinks in Suffolk County parks.
 
In November 2014, Lithuania introduced legislation prohibiting the sale of non-alcoholic energy drinks with more than 150 milligrams of caffeine per liter to persons under the age of 18.
 
Excise Taxes on Energy Drinks.  Legislation that would impose an excise tax on sweetened beverages has been proposed in Congress, in some state legislatures, including Connecticut, Hawaii, Massachusetts, Nebraska, Oregon, Rhode Island and Texas, and in some local governments, with excise taxes generally ranging between $0.01 and $0.02 per ounce of sweetened beverage.  Berkeley, California, became the first jurisdiction to pass such a measure, by ballot question approved in November 2014. A general tax of $0.01 per ounce on certain sweetened drinks, including energy drinks, became effective in Berkeley on January 1, 2015. However, the implementation of this tax has been deferred until March 2015. The imposition of such taxes on our products would increase the cost of certain of our products or, to the extent levied directly on consumers, make certain of our products less affordable.  Excise taxes on sweetened beverages already are in effect in certain foreign countries where we do business.  On January 1, 2011, Mexico instituted a 25% excise tax on certain energy drinks, to which our products are currently not subject; however, in October 2013, Mexico passed a $1 MXN tax per liter on sugar-sweetened beverages, which became effective January 1, 2014.
 
Effective January 1, 2013, Hungary instituted an excise tax of approximately $0.18 (at current exchange rates) per liter on drinks containing more than 15 milligrams of caffeine per 100 milliliters, to which our products are subject. In October 2013, the French Parliament passed legislation taxing energy drinks at a rate of €1 EUR per liter, which was approved by the French Supreme Court in December 2013 and went into effect on January 1, 2014. However, in September 2014, France’s Constitutional Council found the tax on energy drinks unconstitutional because it only affects energy drinks and does not apply to other beverages containing similar levels of caffeine. The Court gave the French government a January 1, 2015 deadline to remove or change the €1 EUR per liter levy. Accordingly, as of January 1, 2015, the law was amended to remove any reference to energy drinks. However, the tax on beverages containing more than 220 milligrams of caffeine per liter remains in place. We adjusted the caffeine levels in certain of our Monster® Energy products that are sold in France to address this regulation.
 
Limits on Caffeine Content.  Legislation, including the Chicago Proposal, has been proposed to limit the amount of caffeine that may be contained in beverages, including energy drinks. Some jurisdictions where we do business have prescribed limited caffeine content for beverages. On January 1, 2013, regulations took effect in Canada that limit the amount of caffeine contained in any beverage in a single-serving can or bottle to less than 180 milligrams.  We adjusted the caffeine levels in certain of our Monster Energy® products that are sold in Canada to address these regulations, although the majority of our products were unaffected.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfactorily do so in other jurisdictions that adopt similar legislation.
 
18






Table of Contents
 
Limitations on Container Size.  In September 2012, the Board of Health of New York City approved regulations prohibiting the sale, in certain sales channels, mainly food service establishments, of certain sweetened drinks in containers larger than 16 fluid ounces. The regulations were expected to take effect in March 2013, but a New York state court invalidated them as exceeding the Board of Health’s authority, and the state’s highest court agreed with this ruling on appeal. The mayor of Cambridge, Massachusetts has proposed a similar initiative.
 
We currently package certain of our Monster Energy® drinks and our Peace Tea® iced teas in aluminum cans larger than 16 fluid ounces. Although current proposals would not extend to beverages sold in our principal sales channels such as convenience stores, grocery stores, mass merchandisers, drug stores and club stores, we cannot predict whether any such sales channel might be added to current proposed regulations or covered by other similar regulatory initiatives.
 
Container Deposits. Various municipalities, states and foreign countries require that a deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary by jurisdiction. Other deposit, recycling or product stewardship proposals have been introduced in certain U.S. states, counties, municipalities and in certain foreign countries.
 
Compliance with Environmental Laws
 
Our facilities in the United States are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Our operations in other countries are subject to similar laws and regulations that may be applicable in such countries. Compliance with these provisions has not had, nor do we expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, net income or competitive position.
 
In California, we are required to collect redemption values from our customers and to remit such redemption values to the State of California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold. In certain other states and countries where our products are sold, we are also required to collect deposits from our customers and to remit such deposits to the respective jurisdictions based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold in such states.
 
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2014, we employed a total of 2,001 employees of which 1,298 were employed on a full-time basis. Of our 2,001 employees, we employed 463 in administrative and operational capacities and 1,538 persons in sales and marketing capacities.
 
Available Information
 
As a public company, we are required to file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A and other information (including any amendments) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  You may read and copy such material at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  You can also find the Company’s SEC filings at the SEC’s website, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at http://www.sec.gov.
 
19






Table of Contents
 
Our Internet address is www.monsterbevcorp.com.  Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our SEC filings (including any amendments) will be made available free of charge on www.monsterbevcorp.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing to, or telephoning us, at the following address or telephone number:
 
Monster Beverage Corporation
1 Monster Way
Corona, CA 92879
 (951) 739-6200
 (800) 426-7367
 
20

 






Table of Contents
 
ITEM 1A.       RISK FACTORS
 
In addition to the other information in this report, you should carefully consider the following risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risk factors summarized below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.
 
Following the TCCC Transaction, NewCo and TCCC will have extensive commercial arrangements and, as a result, NewCo’s future performance is expected to substantially depend on the success of its relationship with TCCC.
 
In connection with the TCCC Transaction, the amended distribution coordination agreements to be entered into with TCCC will provide for the transition of third parties’ rights to distribute the Company’s products in most territories in the U.S. to members of TCCC’s distribution network, which consists of owned or controlled bottlers/distributors and independent bottling/distribution partners. On February 9, 2015 in accordance with its existing agreements with the applicable third-party distributors, the Company sent notices of termination to certain affected third-party distributors, including the majority of the AB Distributors in the U.S., providing for the termination of their respective distribution agreements, to be effective at various dates beginning in March 2015. The associated distribution rights will be transferred to TCCC’s distribution network in each applicable territory as of the effective date of the termination of the applicable third party’s rights in such territory. In addition, it is expected that TCCC will become our preferred distribution partner globally. As a result, we will be reducing our distributor diversification and will be substantially dependent on TCCC’s international distribution platform.
 
Also in connection with the TCCC Transaction, TCCC will make a substantial equity investment in NewCo  and has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to compete in the energy drink category. While we believe that this will incentivize TCCC to take steps to assure that our products receive the appropriate attention in the TCCC distribution system, there can be no assurance of this as TCCC is a much larger company with many strategic priorities. In addition, TCCC does not control all members of its distribution system, many of which are independent companies that make their own business decisions that may not always align with TCCC’s interests. Moreover, it is also possible that we may fail to recognize the expected benefits of the new distribution arrangements regardless of TCCC’s priorities or the priorities of the members of TCCC’s distribution system. In any such case, our operating results could suffer and the value of NewCo’s common shares could be adversely affected.
 
Under the terms of the TCCC Transaction, we have agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to compete with TCCC in the non-energy drink category following the closing. As a result, our sole focus will be in the energy drink category and our business will become more vulnerable to adverse changes impacting the energy drink category and business, which could adversely impact our business and the trading price of our common stock.
 
The failure to transition the distribution of our products to TCCC’s distribution network in a timely manner could reduce and/or delay the expected benefits of the TCCC Transaction.
 
If the expected transition of the U.S. distribution rights to TCCC’s distribution network described above is not completed in a full, timely and/or efficient manner, the expected benefits of the new distribution arrangements could be reduced and/or delayed. In this regard, we have been informed that approximately 64 AB Distributors are challenging our right to terminate their distribution agreements in accordance with the express terms of such distribution agreements. We have filed separate arbitration demands against each of these parties seeking declarations of our rights, including our right to terminate the applicable distribution agreements in accordance with their terms. We have also filed an action in the United States District Court, Central District of California, against these parties to enforce each of their respective obligations to arbitrate any disputes arising under such distribution agreements. We believe the independent distributors’ allegations are without merit.
 
21






Table of Contents
 
We expect to incur costs associated with transition of distribution which we currently estimate at $280.0 million. The final amount of those costs could be different and such differences could be material. In addition, under the TCCC Transaction Agreements, up to $625.0 million of the net $2.15 billion cash payment to be paid to us by TCCC will be held in escrow, subject to release upon achievement of milestones relating to the transition of distribution rights to TCCC’s distribution network. A failure to meet those milestones would result in a decrease in, and/or delay of, the cash payment.
 
Following the TCCC Transaction, TCCC will be a significant shareholder of NewCo and may have interests that are different from NewCo’s other shareholders (including current shareholders of the Company).
 
In connection with the TCCC Transaction, each outstanding share of the Company’s common stock will be converted into one share of NewCo’s common stock.  Immediately following the consummation of the TCCC Transaction, TCCC will own NewCo common shares representing approximately 16.7% of the total number of NewCo’s outstanding common shares. TCCC will also have the right to nominate two directors to the NewCo board of directors, subject to reduction in certain circumstances.
 
Following the completion of the TCCC Transaction, TCCC’s ownership could also have an effect on NewCo’s ability to engage in a change in control transaction. TCCC will be obligated for a period of time to vote all of its NewCo common shares in excess of 20% of the outstanding NewCo common shares in the same proportion as all NewCo common shares not owned by TCCC with respect to a proposal for a NewCo change of control. However, if TCCC were to oppose such a change in control transaction, a bidder would be required to secure the support of holders of 62.5% of NewCo’s common shares not owned by TCCC (assuming that TCCC increased its ownership from approximately 16.7% to 20% of NewCo’s common shares) to achieve a vote of a majority of NewCo’s outstanding shares for a change-in-control transaction. In addition, assuming the completion of the TCCC Transaction, TCCC would have a bidding advantage if the NewCo board of directors were to seek to sell NewCo in the future because TCCC would not need to pay a control premium on the shares it owns at such time, including the shares it acquires in the TCCC Transaction. TCCC and NewCo would also be permitted to terminate TCCC’s distribution coordination agreements with NewCo after a change in control of NewCo. In such event, TCCC would receive a termination fee if TCCC terminated the distribution coordination agreements following a change in control of NewCo involving certain TCCC competitors, or if NewCo terminated following a change in control of NewCo, involving any third party.
 
The interests of TCCC may be different from or conflict with the interests of NewCo’s other shareholders (including current shareholders of the Company, who will receive NewCo common shares in the TCCC Transaction) and, as a result, TCCC’s influence may result in the delay or prevention of potential actions or transactions, including a potential change of management or control of NewCo, even if such action or transaction may be beneficial to NewCo’s other shareholders. Moreover, TCCC’s ownership of a significant amount of NewCo’s outstanding common shares could result in downward pressure on the trading price of NewCo’s common shares if TCCC were to sell a large portion of its shares or as a result of the perception that such a sale might occur.
 
The TCCC Transaction may not be completed or may be delayed, and even if the TCCC Transaction is successfully completed, the anticipated benefits to the Company’s stockholders may not be realized.
 
The completion of the TCCC Transaction is subject to certain customary conditions.  The Company or TCCC may be unable to satisfy the conditions required to complete the transaction, and there is no assurance that the TCCC Transaction will be completed on a timely basis or at all.  If the TCCC Transaction is not completed, we will nonetheless bear significant transaction costs. In addition, the current market price of our stock may reflect an assumption that the TCCC Transaction will occur, and failure to complete the TCCC Transaction could result in a decline in our stock price.  The failure of the TCCC Transaction to be completed may also result in negative publicity and/or a negative impression of the Company in the investment community and may affect our relationship with customers and other partners.
 
22






Table of Contents
 
Changes in government regulation, or failure to comply with existing regulations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
Legislation has been proposed and/or adopted at the U.S. federal, state and/or municipal level and proposed and/or adopted in certain foreign jurisdictions to restrict the sale of energy drinks (including prohibiting the sale of energy drinks at certain establishments or pursuant to certain governmental programs), limit caffeine content in beverages, require certain product labeling disclosures and/or warnings, impose excise taxes, limit product size, or impose age restrictions for the sale of energy drinks.  For a discussion of certain of such legislation, see “Part I, Item 1 — Business — Government Regulation.”  Furthermore, additional legislation may be introduced in the United States and other countries at the federal, state, local and municipal level in respect of each of the foregoing subject areas.  Public health officials and health advocates are increasingly focused on the public health consequences associated with obesity, especially as the disease affects children, and are seeking legislative change to reduce the consumption of sweetened beverages.  There also has been an increased focus on caffeine content in beverages.  To the extent any such legislation is enacted in one or more jurisdictions where a significant amount of our products are sold individually or in the aggregate, it could result in a reduction in demand for or availability of our energy drinks and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are also currently subject to various federal and state regulations, including, but not limited to: the FFDC Act, including as amended by the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are also subject to numerous statutes and regulations.  If a regulatory authority finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or such products may have to be recalled and/or reformulated and/or have the packaging changed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
We cannot predict the effect of inquiries from and/or actions by attorneys general and/or other government agencies and/or quasi-government agencies into the advertising, marketing, promotion, ingredients, usage and/or sale of our energy drink products.
 
We are subject to the risks of investigations and/or enforcement actions by state attorneys general and/or other government and/or quasi-governmental agencies relating to the advertising, marketing, promotion, ingredients, usage and/or sale of our energy drinks. In July 2012, we received a subpoena from a state attorney general in connection with an investigation relating to the advertising, marketing, promotion, ingredients, usage and sale of our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. We cannot predict the outcome of this inquiry and what, if any, effect it may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If an inquiry by a state attorney general or other government or quasi-government agency finds that our products and/or the advertising, marketing, promotion, ingredients, usage and/or sale of such products are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, we may become subject to fines, product reformulations, container changes, changes in the usage or sale of our energy drink products and/or changes in our advertising, marketing and promotion practices, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
23






Table of Contents
 
Litigation regarding our products, and related unfavorable media attention, could expose us to significant liabilities and reduce demand for our products.
 
In 2012, we were named as a defendant in a product liability lawsuit, which alleged that the consumption of two 24-ounce cans of Monster Energy® over the course of two days, caused the wrongful death of a fourteen year old girl (Anais Fournier) in December 2011. We do not believe that our products are responsible for the death of Ms. Fournier and intend to continue to vigorously defend the lawsuit. In addition, additional product liability lawsuits have since been filed against us, containing similar allegations to those presented in the Fournier lawsuit, each of which we believe is also without merit and would not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations in the event any damages were awarded.
 
In October 2012, we received a written request for information from the City Attorney for the City and County of San Francisco (the “City Attorney”) concerning our advertising and marketing of our Monster Energy® brand of energy drinks and specifically concerning the safety of our products for consumption by adolescents. In a subsequent letter, the City Attorney threatened to bring suit against us if we did not agree to take certain steps immediately and, on May 6, 2013, the City Attorney filed a complaint against us for declaratory and injunctive relief, civil penalties and restitution for an alleged violation of California’s Unfair Competition Law. We deny that we have violated the Unfair Competition Law or any other law and believe that the City Attorney’s claims and demands are preempted and unconstitutional. We intend to vigorously defend against the lawsuit. At this time, no evaluation of the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome or range of potential loss can be expressed.
 
Several other lawsuits have been filed against us claiming that certain statements made in our advertisements and/or on the labels of our products were false and/or misleading in nature and/or that our products are not safe. Putative class action lawsuits have also recently been filed against certain of our competitors asserting that certain claims in their advertisements amount to false advertising. We do not believe any statements made by us in our promotional materials or set forth on our product labels are false or misleading or that our products are in any way unsafe and intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits.
 
Any of the foregoing matters or other product-related litigation, the threat thereof, or unfavorable media attention arising from pending or threatened product-related litigation, could consume significant financial and managerial resources, and result in decreased demand for our products, significant monetary awards against us and injury to our reputation.
 
Criticism of our energy drink products, and/or criticism or a negative perception of energy drinks generally, could adversely affect us.
 
An unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine, or criticism or negative publicity regarding the caffeine content in our products or energy drinks generally, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Articles critical of the caffeine content in energy drinks and/or indicating certain health risks of energy drinks have been published in recent years. We believe the overall growth of the energy drink market in the U.S. may have been negatively impacted by the ongoing negative publicity and comments that continue to appear in the media questioning the safety of energy drinks, and suggesting limitations on their ingredients (including caffeine) and/or the levels thereof and/or imposing minimum age restrictions for consumers. If reports, studies or articles critical of caffeine and/or energy drinks continue to be published or are published in the future, they could adversely affect the demand for our products.
 
24






Table of Contents
 
Increased competition could hurt our business.
 
The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products, flavors, product positioning as well as promotion and marketing strategies. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, some of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.
 
Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include the taste and flavor of our products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and in some cases with products of much larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Red Bull Gmbh, the DPS Group, Kraft Foods Inc., Suntory Holdings, Ltd., Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and Ocean Spray. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily national or local in operations. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains, and club stores.
 
There can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in maintaining our current revenues or market share or position due to competition in the beverage industry. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
 
Uncertainty in the financial markets and other adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.
 
Global economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. There can be no assurance that economic improvements will occur, or that they would be sustainable, or that they would enhance conditions in markets relevant to us. In addition, we cannot predict the duration and severity of disruptions in any of our markets, or the impact they may have on our customers or business, as our expansion outside of the United States has increased our exposure to any developments or crisis in European and other international markets. If economic conditions deteriorate, our industry, business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
 
Changes in consumer preferences may reduce demand for some of our products.
 
The beverage industry is subject to changing consumer preferences and shifts in consumer preferences may adversely affect us. There is increasing awareness of and concern for the health consequences of obesity. This may reduce demand for our non-diet beverages, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. Recently, concerns have emerged regarding diet sodas and in particular, aspartame, which we do not use in our beverages.
 
Consumers are seeking greater variety in their beverages. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our continued ability to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages that appeal to consumers. In order to retain and expand our market share, we must continue to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages and be competitive in the areas of taste, quality and health, although there can be no assurance of our ability to do so. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to purchase our products in the future. Product lifecycles for some beverage brands and/or products and/or packages may be limited to a few years before consumers’ preferences change. The beverages we currently market are in varying stages of their product lifecycles and there can be no assurance that such beverages will become or remain profitable for us.  We may be unable to achieve volume growth through product and packaging initiatives. We may also be unable to penetrate new markets. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
 
25






Table of Contents
 
Operations outside the United States expose us to uncertain conditions and other risks in international markets.
 
Our gross sales to customers outside of the United States were approximately 23%, 23% and 22% of consolidated gross sales for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and our growth strategy includes further expanding our international business. If we are unable to continue to expand distribution of our products outside the United States, our growth rate could be adversely affected. In many international markets, we have limited operating experience and in some areas we have no operating experience. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and develop and promote our brands in international markets. Our percentage gross profit margins in many international markets are expected to be less than the comparable percentage gross profit margins obtained in the U.S. We face and will continue to face substantial risks associated with having foreign operations, including: economic and/or political instability in our international markets; restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States, including possible taxes and/or withholding obligations on any repatriations; and tariffs and/or trade restrictions. These risks could have a significant impact on our ability to sell our products on a competitive basis in international markets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, higher product damages, particularly when products are shipped long distances, potentially higher incidence of fraud and/or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially adverse tax consequences.
 
Global or regional catastrophic events could impact our operations and affect our ability to grow our business.
 
Because of our increasingly global presence, our business could be affected by unstable political conditions, civil unrest, large-scale terrorist acts, especially those directed against the United States or other major industrialized countries where our products are distributed, the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities, major natural disasters or widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases. Such events could impact the production and distribution of our products.  In addition, such events could disrupt global or regional economic activity, which could affect consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. If we are unable to grow our business internationally as a result of these factors, our growth rate could decline.
 
Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results.
 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, expenses, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We enter into forward currency exchange contracts with financial institutions to create an economic hedge to specifically manage a portion of the foreign exchange risk exposure associated with certain consolidated subsidiaries’ non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities. We have not used instruments to hedge against all foreign currency risks and are therefore not protected against all foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, our reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time.
 
26






Table of Contents
 
We derive a substantial portion of revenues from our energy drinks and competitive pressure in the energy drink category could adversely affect our business and operating results.
 
A substantial portion of our sales are derived from our energy drinks, including in particular our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. Our DSD segment, which is comprised primarily of energy drinks, represented 96.1% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2014. Any decrease in the sales of our Monster Energy® brand and other energy drinks could significantly adversely affect our future revenues and net income. Historically, we have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the energy drink category as well as from the energy shot category. Domestically, our energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, Red Devil, Xenergy, MiO Energy, Rip It, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee, Rockstar Roasted, 5-Hour Energy Shots, Stacker 2, VPX Redline Energy Shots and many other brands. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas, juice cocktails and enhanced waters in different packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Sobe Life Water, Snapple, Arizona, Fuse, Ocean Spray, Honest Tea, Gold Peak Tea, Activate, Neuro and Vitamin Water, have added dietary ingredients to their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits.  In addition, certain large companies such as TCCC and PepsiCo, market and/or distribute products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX, Mountain Dew Kickstart and Vault. Internationally, our energy drinks compete with Red Bull, Rockstar, Burn, V-Energy, Lucozade, Adrenaline Rush, Relentless and numerous local and private label brands that usually differ from country to country, such as Play, Power Play, Mother, Hell, Shock, Tiger, Boost, Speed, TNT, Shark, Hot 6, Shark Energy, Nalu, Battery, Bullit, Flash Up, Black, Non-Stop, Bomba, Semtex, Vive 100, Dark Dog, Speed, Guaraná, Ultra, Sting and a host of other international brands. Our Java Monster® product line competes directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Seattle’s Best and illy issimo coffee drinks. Our Muscle Monster® product line competes directly with Muscle Milk, Core Power, ABB Pure Pro and Gatorade Recover Protein Shake. Competitive pressures in the energy drink category could impact our revenues and/or we could experience price erosion and/or lower market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
 
We rely on bottlers and other contract packers to manufacture our products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our bottlers and contract packers and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes constrained or unavailable to us, our business could suffer.
 
We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource such manufacturing to bottlers and other contract packers. In the event of a disruption and/or delay, we may be unable to procure alternative packing facilities at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. In addition, there are limited alternative packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for many of our products, including our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks, our Peace Tea® product line, our Hansen’s® brand energy drinks, our aseptic juice products, our Hubert’s® Lemonades, our Muscle Monster® product line, our Java Monster® product line and certain of our other products. While we believe a short-term disruption or delay in production would not significantly affect our revenue, a lengthy disruption or delay in the production of any of such products could significantly adversely affect our revenues from such products because alternative co-packing facilities in the United States and abroad with adequate long-term capacity may not be available for such products either at commercially reasonable rates, and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all.
 
We rely on bottlers and distributors to distribute our DSD segment products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing bottlers and distributors and/or secure such bottlers and distributors, our business could suffer.
 
Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other soda, carbonated and non-carbonated brands and other beverage products (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic), including energy drinks. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.
 
27






Table of Contents
 
The TCCC North American Bottlers, New CCE, Coca-Cola Hellenic and the AB Distributors are our primary domestic and international distributors of our Monster Energy® products. However, in February 2015, in accordance with its existing agreements with the applicable third-party distributors, the Company sent notices of termination to the majority of the AB Distributors in the U.S. for the termination of their respective distribution agreements, to be effective at various dates beginning in March 2015.  The associated distribution rights will be transitioned to TCCC’s network of owned or controlled bottlers/distributors and independent bottling and distribution partners as of the effective date of termination of the AB Distributors’ rights in the applicable territories (see Note 8 “Distribution Agreements” in the notes to consolidated financial statements). As a result, if we are unable to maintain good relationships with the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or New CCE and/or Coca-Cola Hellenic, or if the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or New CCE and/or Coca-Cola Hellenic do not effectively focus on marketing, promoting, selling and distributing our products, sales of our Monster Energy® products could be adversely affected.
 
We continually seek to expand and/or improve the distribution of our products by entering into agreements with regional bottlers and/or other direct store delivery distributors having established sales, marketing and distribution organizations.
 
The marketing efforts of our distributors are important for our success. If our DSD segment brands prove to be less attractive to our existing bottlers and distributors and/or if we fail to attract additional bottlers and distributors, and/or our bottlers and/or distributors do not market, promote and distribute our products effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
 
We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key flavor suppliers.  If we are unable to source our flavors on acceptable terms from our key suppliers, we could suffer disruptions in our business.
 
Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors. Consequently, we do not have the list of flavor ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain comparable flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. If we must replace a flavor supplier, we could experience a temporary disruption in our ability to deliver products to our customers and/or a reduction in demand for our products containing replacement flavors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
 
Our customers are material to our success.  If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing customers, our business could suffer.
 
Unilateral decisions could be taken by our distributors, convenience chains, grocery chains, specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers to discontinue carrying all or any of our products that they are carrying at any time, which could cause our business to suffer.
 
CCR accounted for approximately 29% of our net sales for both the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. A decision by CCR, CCRC, New CCE, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), Coca-Cola Hellenic, or any other large customer to decrease the amount purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.
 
28






Table of Contents
 
Increases in costs and/or shortages of raw materials and/or ingredients and/or fuel and/or costs of co-packing could harm our business.
 
The principal raw materials used by us are aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, as well as flavors, juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk, cream, protein, dietary ingredients and other packaging materials; the costs and availability of which are subject to fluctuations. In addition, certain of our co-pack arrangements allow such co-packers to increase their charges based on certain of their own cost increases. We are uncertain whether the prices of any of the above or any other raw materials or ingredients, certain of which have recently risen, will continue to rise or may rise in the future. We are unsure whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our customers. We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage the risks associated with securing sufficient ingredients or raw materials although we do, from time to time, enter into purchase agreements for a significant portion of our annual anticipated requirements for certain raw materials such as aluminum cans, apple juice, sugar and sucralose.
 
In addition, some of these raw materials, including certain sizes of cans, are available from a limited number of suppliers.
 
Our failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results.
 
We may not correctly estimate demand for our products.  Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with regard to new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to, aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, glass bottles, labels, sucralose, flavors, dietary ingredients, juice concentrates, certain sweeteners, coffee, tea, protein, packaging materials or co-packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. Moreover, industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates, dietary ingredients and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the future, be experienced. We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage this risk. Such shortages could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.
 
If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels and/or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, and/or if our customers’ or retailers’ inventory levels are too high, our operating results could be adversely affected.
 
If we do not accurately anticipate the future demand for a particular product or the time it will take to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels may be inadequate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to meet our shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or retailers, increase our distribution costs and/or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If the inventory of our products held by our distributors and/or retailers is too high, they will not place orders for additional products, which could unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results.
 
The costs of packaging supplies are subject to price increases from time to time and we may be unable to pass all or some of such increased costs on to our customers.
 
Many of our packaging supply contracts allow our suppliers to alter the costs they charge us for packaging supplies based on changes in the costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce those packaging supplies, such as aluminum for cans, resin for PET plastic bottles, and pulp and paper for cartons and/or trays. These changes in the prices we pay for our packaging supplies occur at certain predetermined times that vary by product and supplier. In some cases, we are able to fix the prices of certain packaging supplies and/or commodities for a reasonable period. In other cases, we bear the risk of increases in the costs of these packaging supplies, including the underlying costs of the commodities that comprise these packaging supplies. We do not use derivative instruments to manage this risk. If the costs of these packaging supplies increase, we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers through corresponding adjustments to the prices we charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
29






Table of Contents
 
Our intellectual property rights are critical to our success, and the loss of such rights could materially adversely affect our business.
 
We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business.  We also own the copyright in and to a portion of the content on the packaging of our products. We regard our trademarks, copyrights, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success and attempt to protect such intellectual property through registration and enforcement actions. However, there can be no assurance that other third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights and similar proprietary rights. If we lose some or all of our intellectual property rights, our business may be materially adversely affected.
 
If we are unable to maintain our brand image or product quality, our business may suffer.
 
Our success depends on our ability to build and maintain the brand image for our existing products, new products and brand extensions. There can be no assurance that our advertising, marketing and promotional programs will have the desired impact on our products’ brand image and on consumer preference and demand. Product quality and/or ingredient content issues, efficacy or lack thereof, real or imagined, or allegations of product contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. Furthermore, our brand image or perceived product quality could be adversely affected by litigation, unfavorable reports in the media, internet or elsewhere, studies in general and regulatory or other governmental inquiries, in each case whether involving our products or those of our competitors, as well as proposed or new legislation affecting our industry.
 
If we encounter product recalls, our business may suffer and we may incur material losses.
 
We may be required from time to time to recall products entirely or from specific co-packers, markets or batches if such products become contaminated, damaged, mislabeled or otherwise materially not compliant with applicable regulatory requirements. Product recalls could adversely affect our profitability and our brand image. We do not maintain recall insurance.
 
If we are not able to retain the full-time services of senior management there may be an adverse effect on our operations and/or our operating performance until we find suitable replacements.
 
Our business is dependent, to a large extent, upon the services of our senior management.  We do not maintain key person life insurance on any members of our senior management. The loss of services of either Mr. Sacks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Schlosberg, President and Chief Financial Officer, or any other key members of our senior management could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms.
 
Climate change may negatively affect our business.
 
There is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. While warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of our products, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions, which may limit availability and/or increase the cost of certain key ingredients, juice concentrates and dietary ingredients used in our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could
 
30







Table of Contents
 
also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain including, without limitation, the availability of, and/or result in higher prices for juice concentrates, natural flavors and dietary ingredients or impact demand for our products. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Sales of our products may also be influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Weather conditions may influence consumer demand for certain of our beverages, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
Potential changes in accounting practices and/or taxation may adversely affect our financial results.
 
We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on our financial results. New accounting standards could be issued that change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported earnings. Increases in direct and indirect income tax rates could affect after-tax income.  Equally, increases in indirect taxes (including environmental taxes pertaining to the disposal of beverage containers and/or indirect taxes on beverages generally or energy drinks in particular) could affect our products’ affordability and reduce our sales.
 
Volatility of stock price may restrict sale opportunities.
 
Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including stockholder expectations, financial results, the introduction of new products by us and our competitors, general economic and market conditions, estimates and projections by the investment community and public comments by other parties as well as many other factors including litigation, many of which are beyond our control. We do not provide guidance on our future performance, including, but not limited to, our revenues, margins, product mix, operating expenses or net income. We may be unable to achieve analysts’ net revenue and/or earnings forecasts, which are based on their own projected revenues, sales volumes and sales mix of many product types and/or new products, certain of which are more profitable than others, as well as their own estimates of gross margin and operating expenses. There can be no assurance that we will achieve any projected levels or mixes of product sales and/or revenues and/or gross margins and/or operating profits and/or net income. As a result, our stock price is subject to significant volatility and stockholders may not be able to sell our stock at attractive prices. In addition, periods of volatility in the market price of our stock could result in the initiation of securities class action litigation against us. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, our stock price high was $113.50 and our stock price low was $63.00.
 
Provisions in our organizational documents and control by insiders may prevent changes in control even if such changes would be beneficial to other stockholders.
 
Our organizational documents may limit changes in control. Furthermore, as of February 17, 2015, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg together may be deemed to beneficially own and/or exercise voting control over approximately 12% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg could exercise significant control over matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including electing directors, amending organizational documents and disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may be favorable to the other common stockholders.
 
31






Table of Contents
 
Our cash flow may not be sufficient to fund our long term goals.
 
Although we currently have sufficient cash to support our planned operating activities in the current year, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to support our capital expenditure plans and general operating activities in the future. In addition, the terms and/or availability of our credit facility and/or the activities of our debtors and/or creditors could affect the financing of our future growth.
 
Our investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.
 
At December 31, 2014, we had $370.3 million in cash and cash equivalents, $781.1 million in short-term investments and $42.9 million of long-term investments. We have historically invested these amounts in U.S. Treasury bills, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, government agencies and municipal securities (which may have an auction reset feature), variable rate demand notes and money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. These risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.
 
If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting on a consolidated basis, our stock price and investor confidence in our Company could be materially and adversely affected.
 
We are required to maintain both disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that are effective for the purposes described in “Part II, Item 9A – Controls and Procedures.” If we fail to do so, our business, results of operations, financial condition or the value of our stock could be materially harmed.
 
Litigation, legal proceedings, government and regulatory inquiries and/or proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results.
 
We are a party, from time to time, to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, government and regulatory inquiries and/or proceedings, including, but not limited to, intellectual property, fraud, unfair business practices, false advertising, product liability, breach of contract claims, securities actions and shareholder derivative actions. Material legal proceedings are described more fully in “Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” and in “Part II, Item 8, Note 10” to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K.
 
Defending these proceedings can result in significant ongoing expenditures and the diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could have a negative effect on our business operations. Our failure to successfully defend or settle any litigation or legal proceedings could result in liabilities that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenue and profitability, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.
 
We must continually maintain, protect and/or upgrade our information technology systems.
 
Information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breaches, including cybersecurity attacks. Cybersecurity attacks are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. We believe that we have adopted appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks to our technology and our operations from these information technology-related disruptions. However,
 
32






Table of Contents
 
given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to operational interruption, damage to our brand image and private data exposure. Moreover, if our data management systems, including our SAP enterprise resource planning system, do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, cybersecurity attack, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results.
 
ITEM 1B