Item 1A – Risk Factors” below.

 

Products – DSD Segment

 

Monster
Energy® Drinks -
In 2002, we launched a new carbonated energy drink under the Monster Energy®
brand name in 16-ounce cans, which was almost double the size of our Hansen’s
branded energy drinks (in 8.3-ounce cans) and the vast majority of competitive
energy drinks on the market at that time. 
Our Monster Energy® drinks contain different types and levels of
supplements than our Hansen’s® energy drinks and are marketed through our full
service distributor network. We offer the following products under the Monster
Energy® brand energy drink product line: Monster Energy®, lo-carb
Monster Energy®, Monster Energy® Assault®,
Monster Energy® Khaos™, Monster Energy® M-80™ (named “RIPPER” in certain
countries), Monster Energy® Heavy Metal™ and Monster Energy® MIXXD™. 
We package our Monster Energy® drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 16-ounce
and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml aluminum cans and/or 500ml glass
bottles.

 

4












 

Lost®
Energy™ Drinks -
In 2004, we launched a new carbonated energy drink under the Lost® brand name.
The Lost® brand name is owned by Lost International, LLC and the drinks are produced,
sold and distributed by us under an exclusive license from Lost International,
LLC. We offer the following products under the Lost® Energy™ brand energy drink
product line: Lost®, Lost® Perfect 10™, Lost® Five-O™ and Lost® Cadillac™.  We package our Lost® Energy™ drinks in
8.3-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 24-ounce aluminum cans.

 

Energy
Juice - In 2004,
we launched a new non-carbonated energy juice under the Rumba® brand name.  Our energy juice is a 100% juice product that
targets male and female morning beverage consumers and is positioned as a
substitute for coffee, caffeinated sodas and 100% orange or other juices. We
offer the following products under the energy juice product line: Rumba®, Samba and Tango.  We package our energy juices in 15.5-ounce
aluminum cans.

 

Joker Mad
Energy™ Drinks -
In 2005, we introduced Joker Mad Energy™ energy drinks. We offer the following
products under the Joker Mad Energy™ product line: Joker Mad Energy™, Joker Mad
Energy™ Lo-Carb and Joker Mad Energy™ with Juice. We package our Joker Mad
Energy™ drinks in 16-ounce aluminum cans.

 

Java
Monster™ Coffee Drinks - In 2007, we launched a new line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee
drinks under the Java Monster™ brand name. 
We offer the following products under the Java Monster™ product line:
Java Monster™ Originale™, Java Monster™ Loca Moca®, Java Monster™ Mean Bean®,
Java Monster™ Russian, Java Monster™ Irish Blend™, Java Monster™ Chai Hai™,
Java Monster™ Nut Up™ and Java Monster™ Lo-Ball™.  We package our Java Monster™ coffee drinks in
15-ounce aluminum cans.

 

Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™ - In 2008, we introduced a new line of energy shooters in 3-ounce
polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) plastic bottles.  We offer the following products under the
Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™ product line: Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™,
Monster LOBO Energy Shooter™ and Monster Sniper Energy Shooter™.

 

Vidration® - In July 2008,
we introduced our zero calorie, vitamin enhanced, water line under the
Vidration® brand name in 20-ounce PET bottles.

 

Products - Warehouse Segment

 

Hansen’s
Natural Sodas® - Hansen’s
Natural Sodas® have been a leading natural soda brand in Southern California
for the past 30 years.  According to
Information Resources, Inc.’s Analyzer Reports for California, in 2008 our
natural sodas recorded the highest sales among comparable carbonated new age
category beverages measured by unit volume in the California market. Hansen’s
Natural Sodas®, with cane sugar and Hansen’s® Calorie Free Sodas contain no
preservatives, no sodium and no caffeine. We offer the following sodas under
the Hansen’s® brand name:  Hansen’s
Natural Sodas®, Hansen’s® Calorie Free Sodas, Hansen’s® Natural Soda Mixers,
Hansen’s® Natural Green Tea Sodas, Hansen’s® Diet Green Tea Sodas, Hansen’s®
Natural Sparkling Sleek Beverages, Hansen’s® Natural Sparkling Sleek Sugar Free
Beverages, Hansen’s® Natural Sparkling Sleek Green Tea Beverages and Hansen’s®
Natural Sparkling Sleek Sugar Free Green Tea Beverages. We package our natural
sodas in 12-ounce, and recently in 16-ounce, aluminum cans and our sleek
beverages in contemporary 10.5-ounce aluminum cans.

 

Blue Sky® Products - In September 2000,
we acquired the Blue Sky® natural soda business from BSNBC.  The Blue Sky® products contain no
preservatives, sodium or caffeine (other than the energy drinks) or artificial
coloring and are made with sugar and high quality natural flavors. We offer the
following under the Blue Sky® product line: Blue Sky® Natural Sodas, Blue Sky®
Lite Natural Sodas, Blue Sky® Premium Sodas, Blue Sky® Organic Natural Sodas,
Blue Sky® Seltzer Water, Blue Sky® 

 

5












 

Blue Energy®
drink, Blue Sky® Café Energy, Blue Sky® Tea Sodas and Blue Sky® Blue Sport
Isotonic Sports Drinks.  We package our
Blue Sky® Natural Sodas, seltzer waters and tea sodas in 12-ounce aluminum
cans. We package our Blue Sky® Café energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum cans. We
package our Blue Sky® Blue Sport Isotonic Sports Drinks in 16-ounce PET plastic
bottles.  We package our Blue Sky® energy
drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 16-ounce aluminum cans.

 

Hansen’s® Energy Drinks
- - Our Hansen’s® energy drinks compete in the “functional”
beverage category, namely, beverages that provide a real or perceived benefit
in addition to simply delivering refreshment.  
Our Hansen’s® energy drinks
contain vitamins, minerals, nutrients, herbs and supplements (collectively “supplements”).
Since 2006, we have marketed our Hansen’s® brand energy drinks through the
Warehouse segment. We offer the following under the Hansen’s® energy drink product line: Hansen’s® Energy Pro and Hansen’s
Diet Red Energy®.   We package our Hansen’s® energy drinks in
8.3-ounce aluminum cans.

 

Juice
Products and Smoothies - Our fruit juice product line
includes Hansen’s® Natural Apple Juice, which is packaged in 64-ounce PET
plastic bottles and 128-ounce High Density Polyethylene bottles and Hansen’s®
Natural Grape Juice, White Grape Juice, Pineapple Juice, Apple Grape Juice and
Apple Strawberry Juice in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles.  These Hansen’s® juice products contain 100%
juice as well as 120% of the United States Recommended Daily Allowances (the “USRDA”)
for Vitamin C (except Pomegranate which contains 27% juice and 100% of the
USRDA for Vitamin C).  Hansen’s® juice
products compete in the shelf-stable juice category.

 

Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies contain approximately 25% juice and
provide 100% of the recommended daily intake for adults of Vitamins A, C &
E and represented Hansen’s entry into what is commonly referred to as the “functional”
beverage category. Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies are packaged in 11.5-ounce
aluminum cans.

 

We market the above-mentioned juice and smoothie products to our direct
retail customers.

 

Hansen’s® Iced Teas - In 2006, we
introduced a new line of iced teas in sleek 16-ounce wide mouth PET plastic
bottles.  We offer varieties sweetened
with cane sugar as well as sugar free and unsweetened varieties.  Each bottle of tea contains 75 mg of Epigallocatechin Gallate (EGCG), a
natural and powerful antioxidant.

 

Hansen’s® Primal Energy Tea - In
2008, we introduced a new line of energy green teas in 16-ounce aluminum
cans.  Each can of tea contains 100 mg of
EGCG.

 

Juices
for Children - Our
Juice Blast® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks is a dual-branded
100% juice line which was launched in conjunction with Costco Wholesale
Corporation (“Costco”) and is sold through Costco stores.  Our Juice Slam™ line of children’s
multi-vitamin juice drinks is a 100% juice line which we market to grocery
store chain customers, the health food trade, and other customers. Both Juice
Blast® and Juice Slam™ lines of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks contain
eleven essential vitamins and six essential minerals. Both the Juice Blast® and
Juice Slam™ lines are marketed in 6.75-ounce aseptic boxes.  In addition, we also offer an organic Juice
Slam™ in 6.75-ounce organic pouches.

 

In May 2001, we acquired the Junior Juice® beverage business.  The Junior Juice® product line is a 100%
juice line offered in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages and is targeted at toddlers
and preschoolers.  Certain flavors of the
Junior Juice® line have calcium added and all flavors contain 100% of the daily
recommended allowance of Vitamin C. In 2006, we extended the Junior Juice® line
by adding organic juice products in 4.23-ounce aseptic boxes. Each of our
organic Junior Juice® products have 100% juice and contain 100% of the daily
recommended allowance of Vitamin C.

 

6












 

Hansen’s® Organic Junior Water™ -
In July 2008, we introduced our Hansen’s® Organic Junior Water™ line in
4.23-ounce aseptic packages created specially for children ages two to six years
old.  Our Hansen’s® Organic Junior Water™
line of flavored water contains 100% of the daily recommended allowance of
Vitamin C per serving, contains no preservatives, no artificial colors, no
artificial flavors, no artificial sweeteners, no high fructose corn syrup and
contains only thirty calories per serving.

 

Bottled
Water - Our still
water product was introduced in 1993 and is now sold in 0.5-liter plastic
bottles, primarily to the food service trade. Sales of this product line are
very limited.

 

During
2008, we continued to expand our existing product lines and further develop our
markets.  In particular, we continued to
focus on developing and marketing beverages that fall within the category
generally described as the “alternative” beverage category, with particular
emphasis on energy type drinks.

 

Other Products

 

We
continue to evaluate and, where considered appropriate, introduce additional
flavors and types of beverages to complement our existing product lines.  We will also evaluate, and may, where
considered appropriate, introduce “functional” foods/snack foods that utilize
similar channels of distribution and/or are complementary to our existing
products and/or to which our brand names are able to add value.

 

We also develop and supply, on a limited basis, selected beverages in
different formats to a limited number of customers with the objective of
solidifying our relationship with those customers.

 

Manufacture
and Distribution

 

We do not directly manufacture our products but instead outsource the
manufacturing process to third party bottlers and contract packers.

 

We purchase concentrates, juices, flavors, supplements, cans, bottles,
aseptic boxes, aseptic pouches, caps, labels, trays, boxes and other
ingredients for our beverage products which are delivered to our various third
party bottlers and co-packers.  Depending
on the product, the third party bottlers or packers add filtered water and/or
other ingredients and supplements for the manufacture and packaging of the
finished products into Company-approved containers in accordance with our
formulas.  In the case of sodas and other
carbonated beverages, the bottler/packer adds carbonation to the products as
part of the production process.

 

We are generally responsible for arranging for the purchase of and
delivery to our third party bottlers and co-packers of the containers in which
our beverage products are packaged.

 

All of our beverage products are manufactured by various third party
bottlers and co-packers situated throughout the United States and in Europe,
under separate arrangements with each party. 
The majority of our co-packaging arrangements are on a month-to-month
basis.  However, certain of our
co-packing arrangements are described below:

 

(a)        Our agreement with Gluek Brewing Company (“Gluek”) pursuant to which
Gluek packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues until May 2009
and is automatically extended for additional terms of one (1) year each,
unless either party notifies the other in writing at least one hundred eighty
(180) days prior to the last day of the then current term.

 

7












 

(b)       Our agreement with  Carolina Beer &
Beverage  (“Carolina”) pursuant to which
Carolina packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues until April 11,
2009 and is automatically extended  for
additional periods of one (1) year each, unless either party notifies the
other in writing at least one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the last day
of the then current term.

 

(c)        Our agreement with Lucerne Foods, Inc. (“Safeway Norwalk”)
pursuant to which Safeway-Norwalk packages certain of our energy drinks and
Hansen’s Natural Sodas®. This
contract continues until March 31, 2009 and is automatically renewed
annually thereafter, unless terminated by either party upon six (6) months
written notice.

 

(d)       Our agreement with Seven-Up/RC Bottling Company of Southern California, Inc.
(“Seven-Up”) pursuant to which Seven-Up packages certain of our energy drinks.
This contract continues until March 31, 2009.

 

(e)        Our agreement with Nor-Cal Beverage Co. Inc. (“Nor-Cal”) pursuant to
which Nor-Cal packages certain of our Hansen’s juices in PET plastic bottles.
This contract continues until August 2009 and is automatically renewed for
one (1) year terms thereafter unless terminated by either party not less
than ninety (90) days before the end of the initial term or any renewal period.

 

(f)          Our agreement with Dairy Farmers of America, Inc. (“DFA”) pursuant
to which DFA packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues
until March 2010 and is automatically renewed for consecutive one (1) year
periods, subject to mutually agreeable pricing, unless either party provides
notice of cancellation at least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the
initial term or subsequent extension period. Further, either party may
terminate this agreement at its sole discretion at any time by providing the
other party with one hundred eighty (180) days prior written notification
specifying the date of termination.

 

(g)       Our agreement with Dr. Pepper Bottling Co. (“Dr. Pepper”)
pursuant to which Dr. Pepper packages certain of our energy drinks. This
contract continues until December 31, 2009 and is automatically renewed
for additional terms of one (1) year at a time, unless terminated by
either party  at least ninety (90) days
prior to the last day of the then current term.

 

(h)       Our agreement with Giumarra & Associates Beverage Company (“Giumarra”)
pursuant to which Giumarra packages certain of our energy drinks and
juices.  This contract continues until June 28,
2009 and is automatically extended for additional periods of one (1) year,
unless either party notifies the other in writing at least one hundred eighty
(180) days prior to the last day of the then current term.

 

(i)           Our agreement with Pri-Pak, Inc. (“Pri-Pak”) pursuant to which
Pri-Pak packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues
indefinitely but may be terminated at any time by either party by giving ninety
(90) days prior written notice.

 

(j)           Our agreement with O-AT-KA Milk Products Cooperative (“O-AT-KA”)
pursuant to which O-AT-KA packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract
continues until December 2010 and is automatically renewable for
consecutive one (1) year periods, subject to mutually agreeable pricing,
unless either party provides notice of cancellation at least ninety (90) days
prior to the end of the initial term or subsequent extension period.

 

(k)        Our agreement with Olympic Food, Inc. (“OFI”) pursuant to which
OFI packages certain of our energy drinks. 
This contract continues until June 1, 2009 and shall automatically
renew for successive one (1) year periods, unless one party gives the
other written notice of its intention not to renew, at least one hundred twenty
(120) days prior to the expiration of the initial term.

 

8












 

In certain instances, equipment is purchased by us and installed at the
facilities of our co-packers to enable them to produce certain of our products.  In general, such equipment remains our
property and is to be returned to us upon termination of the packing
arrangements with such co-packers or is amortized over a pre-determined number
of cases that are to be produced at the facilities concerned.

 

We pack certain products outside of the West Coast region to enable us
to produce products closer to the markets where they are sold and thereby
reduce freight costs.  As distribution
volumes in markets outside of California grow, we continue to secure additional
packing arrangements closer to such markets to further reduce freight costs.

 

Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise,
particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid
growth, particularly in new markets.  If
we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure
sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to
PET/plastic bottles, aseptic boxes, cans, glass, labels, flavors, juice
concentrates, or supplement ingredients or certain sweeteners, or packing
arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis.
(See “Part I, Item 1A — Risk Factors”).

 

Although our production arrangements are generally of short duration or
are terminable upon our request, we believe a short disruption or delay would
not significantly affect our revenues because alternative packing facilities in
the United States with adequate capacity can usually be obtained for many of
our products at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short
time period.  However, there are limited
packing facilities in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Europe
with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for certain of our products,
including Monster Energy® and Lost® Energy™ energy
drinks, and Rumba®,  Samba and Tango energy juice in 8.3-ounce
and/or 16-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 24-ounce cap-can and/or 32-ounce and/or
500ml aluminum cans and/or 500ml glass bottles, the Java Monster™ line of
non-carbonated dairy based coffee drinks in 15-ounce cans and our aseptic juice
products. A disruption or delay in production of any of such products could
significantly affect our revenues from such products as alternative co-packing
facilities in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom or Europe, as the
case may be, with adequate capacity may not be available for such products
either at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time
period, if at all.  Consequently, a
disruption in production of such products could affect our revenues.  We continue to seek alternative and/or
additional co-packing facilities in the United States, Canada, the United
Kingdom and Europe with adequate capacity for the production of our various
products to minimize the risk of a disruption in production.

 

During the first quarter of 2009, we ascertained that it was likely
that our west coast copacker of our aseptic juice products would cease to
produce such products in the near future. 
We are endeavoring to secure alternative copacking facilities to replace
that portion of our volume of such products. However, available copacking
capacity for that portion of our volume of such products is limited and we may
not be able to secure sufficient production timely or at all, which would cause
a disruption in our ability to continue to supply that portion of our volume of
such products to customers, either partially or at all.

 

During the second quarter of 2006, we entered into a distribution
agreement with Cadbury Bebidas, S.A. de C.V. (“Cadbury Bebidas”), for exclusive
distribution by Cadbury Bebidas throughout Mexico, excluding Baja California,
of our Monster Energy® and Lost® EnergyTM energy products.  In December 2008, this distributor was
notified of the termination of its distribution agreement on January 25,
2009.  This agreement was terminated on
January 25, 2009.

 

During
the second quarter of 2006, we entered into the Monster Beverages Off-Premise
Distribution Coordination Agreement and the Allied Products Distribution
Coordination Agreement (jointly, the “Off-Premise Agreements”) with
Anheuser-Busch, Inc., a Missouri corporation (“AB”).  Under the Off-Premise Agreements, select
Anheuser-Busch distributors (the “AB Distributors”) distribute and sell, in
markets designated by us, our Monster Energy® and Lost® EnergyTM brands non-alcoholic energy drinks and Rumba®, Samba and Tango brand energy juice,
as well as additional products that may be agreed between the parties.

 

During
the first quarter of 2007, we entered into the On-Premise Distribution
Coordination Agreement (the “On-Premise Agreement”) with AB.  Under the On-Premise Agreement, AB manages

 

9











 

and coordinates the sale,
distribution and merchandising of Monster Energy® energy drinks to on-premise
retailers including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in territories approved by
us.

 

During the first quarter of 2007, we entered into a
distribution agreement with Pepsi-QTG Canada, a division of PepsiCo Canada, ULC
(“Pepsi Canada”), for the exclusive distribution by Pepsi Canada throughout
Canada of our Monster Energy®, Lost® EnergyTM and Hansen’s® energy products.  This
agreement was terminated by us effective December 31, 2008.

 

During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into
the Monster Energy Distribution Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC North
American Coordination Agreement”) with The Coca-Cola Company (“TCCC”).  Pursuant to the TCCC North American
Coordination Agreement, we have designated, and in the future may designate,
territories in which bottlers from TCCC’s network of partially owned and
independent bottlers, including Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (“CCE”),
Coca-Cola Bottling Company (“CCBC”), CCBCC Operations, LLC (“Consolidated”),
United Bottling Contracts Company, LLC (“United”), and other TCCC independent
bottlers (collectively, the “TCCC North American Bottlers”) will distribute and
sell primarily our Monster Energy® beverages (the “Products”) in the United
States and Canada.

 

During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into
the Monster Energy Distribution Agreement with CCE pursuant to which CCE was
appointed to distribute, directly and through certain sub-distributors, the
Products in portions of twenty-four U.S. states (the “U.S. Territories”). We
may designate additional territories within reasonable proximity to the U.S.
Territories and CCE will use reasonable good faith efforts to add the
additional territories.  During the fourth
quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Canadian Distribution
Agreement with CCBC, pursuant to which CCBC has been appointed to distribute,
directly and through certain sub-distributors, the Products in Canada, with
performance commencing on January 1, 2009. 
In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into
distribution agreements with Consolidated, United and other TCCC North American
Bottlers for the distribution of the Products in various territories within the
United States.

 

During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into
the Monster Energy International Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC
International Coordination Agreement”) with TCCC.  Pursuant to the TCCC International
Coordination Agreement, we have designated, and in the future may designate,
countries in which we wish to appoint TCCC distributors to distribute and sell
the Products.

 

During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into
the Monster Energy International Distribution Agreement and the Monster Energy
Belgium Distribution Agreement with CCE pursuant to which CCE has been
appointed to distribute directly, and through certain sub-distributors, the
Products in Great Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and
Monaco.

 

During the fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into a distribution
agreement with Comercializadora Eloro, S.A., a subsidiary of Grupo Jumex, for
exclusive distribution throughout Mexico, excluding the Baja and Sonora
regions, of our Monster Energy® and Monster Energy® KhaosTM energy drinks as well as select Java MonsterTM non-carbonated dairy based coffee drinks.  Distribution under this agreement commenced January 26,
2009.

 

Distribution levels vary from state to state and from product to
product.  Certain of our products are
sold in Canada and Mexico.  We also sell
a limited range of our products to distributors outside of the United States,
including in the Caribbean, Central and South America, Japan, Korea, Saudi
Arabia, Hong Kong, South Africa, the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, the
Netherlands, Spain, Belgium, Luxembourg, Monaco and Sweden. 
Gross sales outside the United States accounted for $96.3 million, $55.7
million and $24.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively. The reclassification of certain military customers from
gross sales to customers within the United States to gross sales to customers
outside the United States, resulted in an increase in gross sales 

 

10












 

outside the United States of $14.8 million and $5.5
million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, over
amounts previously reported.

 

We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering
into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery
distributors with established sales, marketing and distribution
organizations.  Many of our bottlers and
distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other soda
and non-carbonated brands and other beverage products.  In many cases, such products compete directly
with our products.

 

During 2008, we continued to expand distribution of our products both
outside of California and outside of the United States.  We expanded our sales force to support and
grow sales, primarily of Monster Energy® drinks, Java MonsterTM line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee
drinks and Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTM’s.

 

Our Blue Sky® products are sold primarily to the health food trade,
natural food chains and mainstream grocery store chains, through specialty
health food distributors.

 

In September 2007, we relocated our corporate
offices to newly leased offices in Corona, California. In October 2006, we
also entered into a lease agreement pursuant to which we leased 346,495 square
feet of warehouse and distribution space located in Corona, California.  This lease commitment provides for minimum
rental payments for 120 months, commencing March 2007, excluding renewal
options.  The monthly rental payments are
$167,586 at the commencement of the lease and increase over the lease term by
7.5% at the end of each 30 month period. The new warehouse and distribution
space replaced our previous warehouse and distribution space also located in
Corona, California.

 

In October 2006, we entered into an agreement to
acquire 1.8 acres of vacant land for a purchase price of $1.4 million, which is
currently in escrow.  In August 2008,
we completed the purchase of an additional 1.09 acres of adjacent land for a
purchase price of $1.4 million.  The
properties are located adjacent to the newly leased warehouse and distribution
space.  We are reviewing the feasibility
of constructing a new office building and parking lot on these combined parcels
of land to replace our existing office space.

 

We have sublet a small
portion of our previous office, warehouse and distribution space on a month to
month basis.  In addition, we continue to
utilize the remaining portion of this space as overflow warehousing for our
main warehouse.  This lease expires in October 2010.
(See “Part I, Item 2 – Properties”).

 

We
also rent additional warehouse space on a short-term basis from time to time in
public warehouses situated throughout the United States and Canada.

 

Raw
Materials and Suppliers

 

The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products
are aluminum cans, glass bottles and PET plastic bottles as well as juice
concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk and cream, the costs of which are subject
to fluctuations. Overall, the prices of aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles,
certain juice concentrates and sugar increased in 2008 as compared to 2007. In
particular, prices of apple concentrate increased materially; although, such
pricing did retreat towards the end of 2008. Furthermore, we have secured a
major part of our 2009 supply of apple concentrate at prices below the overall
prices incurred in 2008. The dairy components in our Java MonsterTM line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee
drinks saw a reduction in 2008 as compared to 2007.  Sucralose prices stayed constant in 2008.

 

11












 

We purchase beverage flavors, concentrates, juices, supplements, cane
sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as well as other ingredients
from independent suppliers located in the United States and abroad.

 

Generally, raw materials utilized by us in our business are readily
available from numerous sources. 
However, certain raw materials are manufactured by only one
company.  We purchase sucralose, which is
used alone or in combination with Acesulfame-K in our low-calorie products,
flavors, vitamin blends and herbs from single manufacturers.  Additionally, certain of our cans are only
manufactured by single companies in the United States.

 

With regard to our Java MonsterTM line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee
drinks, the dairy industry is subject to shortages and higher demand from time
to time which may result in higher prices.

 

With regard to our fruit juice and juice-drink products, the industry
is subject to variability of weather conditions, which may result in higher
prices and/or lower consumer demand for juices.

 

Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their
flavors.  Consequently, we do not have
the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our
concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain these
flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice.  We have identified alternative suppliers of
many of the supplements contained in many of our beverages.  However, industry-wide shortages of certain
fruits and fruit juices, and supplements and sweeteners have been, and could
from time to time in the future be, experienced, which could interfere with
and/or delay production of certain of our products.

 

We continually endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for
certain of our flavors and concentrates as well as to negotiate arrangements
with suppliers which would enable us to obtain access to certain concentrates
or flavor formulas in certain circumstances.  We have been partially successful in these
endeavors.  Additionally, in a limited
number of cases, contractual restrictions and/or the necessity to obtain
regulatory approvals and licenses may limit our ability to enter into
agreements with alternative suppliers and manufacturers and/or distributors.

 

In connection with the development of new products and flavors,
independent suppliers bear a large portion of the expense of product
development, thereby enabling us to develop new products and flavors at relatively
low cost.  We have historically developed
and successfully introduced new products and flavors and packaging for our
products and intend to continue developing and introducing additional new
beverages and flavors.

 

Competition

 

The
beverage industry is highly competitive. 
The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development
of new products and flavors and marketing campaigns.  Our products compete with a wide range of
drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which
have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than
we do.

 

Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include
taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and
effective development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and
different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing.  We also compete for distributors who will
focus on the sale of our products ahead of those of our competitors, provide
stable and reliable distribution and secure adequate shelf space in retail
outlets.  Competitive pressures in the “alternative”,
energy, coffee and “functional” beverage categories could cause our products to
be unable to gain or to lose market share or we could experience price erosion,
which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results.

 

12












 

We have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the
energy drink and energy shot categories. 
A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas and juice
cocktails in larger volume packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass bottles,
including Sobe, Snapple Elements, Arizona and Fuse, have added supplements to
their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or
energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits.  We believe that many of those products
contain lower levels of supplements and principally deliver refreshment.  In addition, many competitive products are positioned
differently from our energy or “functional” drinks.  Our smoothies and tea lines are positioned
more closely against those products.

 

We compete not only for consumer preference, but also for maximum
marketing efforts by multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors,
many of which have a principal affiliation with competing companies and
brands.  Our products compete with all
liquid refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially better
financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and
internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Inc., Cadbury
Schweppes plc, Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods, Inc., Nestle Beverage Company,
Tree Top and Ocean Spray. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily
local in operation.  Our products also
compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store
chains, convenience store chains and club stores.

 

Our natural sodas compete directly with traditional soda products
including those marketed by TCCC, PepsiCo, Inc. and Cadbury Schweppes plc,
as well as with carbonated beverages marketed by smaller or primarily local
companies such as Jones Soda Co., Clearly Canadian Beverage Company, Crystal
Geyser, J.M. Smucker Company and with private label brands such as those
carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.

 

Our fruit juice smoothies compete directly with Kern’s, Jumex, Jugos
del Valle and Libby’s Nectars, and V8 Smoothies, as well as with single serve
juice products produced by many competitors. 
Such competitive products are packaged in glass and PET bottles ranging
from 8- to 48-ounces in size and in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans.  The juice content of such competitive
products ranges from 1% to 100%.

 

Our
apple and other juice products compete directly with Tree Top, Mott’s,
Martinelli’s, Welch’s, Ocean Spray, Tropicana, Minute Maid, Langers, Apple and
Eve, Seneca, Northland, Juicy Juice and also with other brands of apple juice
and juice blends, especially store brands.

 

Our
energy drinks, including Hansen’s® energy, Diet Red Energy®, Monster Energy®,
Lost® Energy™, Joker Mad Energy™ and Rumba®, Samba and Tango energy juice in 8.3-ounce and/or
16-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml aluminum cans and/or
500ml glass bottles, and our Monster Hitman Energy Shooter™’s compete directly
with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS,
Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, Vitaminenergy, 5-Hour Energy Shot, Redline
Energy Shot, NOS Energy Shot, Rockstar Energy Shot, Full Throttle Quick Shot,
Amp Energy Shot and many other brands. 
TCCC and PepsiCo Inc. also market and/or distribute additional products
in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and
Vault.

 

Our
Java Monster™ line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee drinks competes
directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double
Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted,
Caribou Coffee, Cinnabon coffee drinks, Godiva dairy based drinks and Full
Throttle Coffee.

 

Sales and Marketing

 

Our sales and marketing strategy for all our
beverages is to focus our efforts on developing brand awareness and trial
through sampling both in stores and at events. 
We use our branded vehicles and other promotional vehicles at events
where we sample our products to consumers. 
We utilize “push-pull” 

 

13












 

methods to achieve maximum
shelf and display space exposure in sales outlets and maximum demand from
consumers for our products, including advertising, in-store promotions and
in-store placement of point-of-sale materials and racks, prize promotions,
price promotions, competitions, endorsements from selected public and extreme
sports figures, coupons, sampling and sponsorship of selected causes such as
cancer research.  Our extreme sports team
endorsements include teams such as the Pro Circuit – Kawasaki Motocross and
Supercross teams, Kawasaki Factory Motocross and Supercross teams, Robby Gordon
Racing Team, Ken Block Rally Racing Team and the Tech 3 Moto GP Team (new for
2009).  Our individual athlete and/or
personality endorsements include extreme sports figures and athletes such as
NASCAR Camping World Truck Series racer Ricky Carmichael, Moto GP
motorcycle racer Valentino Rossi (new for 2009), television personalities such
as Rob Dyrdek as well as many athletes that compete in other sports related
activities, particularly, the Winter and Summer X-Games, supercross, motocross,
freestyle motocross, surfing, skateboarding, wakeboarding, skiing,
snowboarding, BMX, mountain bike downhill racing, snowmobile freestyle,
snowmobile racing, etc.  Our event
endorsements include a wide range of events such as the Monster Energy® Supercross
Series, the AMA Pro Motocross Championship Series and the Vans Warped
Tour. In-store posters, outdoor posters, print, radio and television
advertising, together with price promotions and coupons, may also be used to
promote our brands.

 

We
believe that one of the keys to success in the beverage industry is
differentiation, which entails making our products visually distinctive from
other beverages on the shelves of retailers. 
We review our products and packaging on an ongoing basis and, where
practical, endeavor to make them better and unique.  The labels and graphics for many of our
products are redesigned from time to time to maximize their visibility and
identification, wherever they may be placed in stores and we will continue to
reevaluate the same from time to time.

 

Where appropriate we partner with retailers to assist our marketing
efforts.  For example, while we retain
responsibility for the marketing of the Juice Slam® line of children’s
multi-vitamin juice drinks, Costco has undertaken partial responsibility for
the marketing of the Juice Blast® line.

 

We increased expenditures for our sales and marketing programs by
approximately 24.1% in 2008 compared to 2007. 
As of December 31, 2008, we employed 1,020 employees in sales and
marketing activities, of which 331 were employed on a full-time basis.

 

Customers

 

Our
customers are typically retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club
stores, drug chains, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, full service
beverage distributors, health food distributors and food service
customers.  Gross sales to our various
customer types for the years ended December 2008, 2007 and 2006 are
reflected below.  The allocations below
reflect changes made by us to the categories historically reported.

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
 
 
  
  Retail grocery,
  specialty chains and wholesalers
  
  
   
  
  
  8%
  
  
   
  
  
  8%
  
  
   
  
  
  12%
  
 
 
  
  Club stores,
  drug chains & mass merchandisers
  
  
   
  
  
  14%
  
  
   
  
  
  14%
  
  
   
  
  
  14%
  
 
 
  
  Full service
  distributors
  
  
   
  
  
  74%
  
  
   
  
  
  73%
  
  
   
  
  
  69%
  
 
 
  
  Health food
  distributors
  
  
   
  
  
  1%
  
  
   
  
  
  2%
  
  
   
  
  
  2%
  
 
 
  
  Other
  
  
   
  
  
  3%
  
  
   
  
  
  3%
  
  
   
  
  
  3%
  
 


 

Our customers include CCE, CCBC, Consolidated, United and other TCCC
North American Bottlers, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), AB
Distributors, Kalil Bottling Group, Trader Joe’s, John Lenore &
Company, Pepsi Canada (terminated by us effective December 31, 2008), Swire
Coca-Cola, Costco, The Kroger Co., Safeway Inc. and Albertsons.  A decision by any large customer to decrease
amounts purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a
material negative effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of
operations.  The Dr. Pepper Snapple
Group, 

 

14












 

Inc., a former customer of the DSD division, accounted
for approximately 13%, 16% and 19% of our net sales for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Our
distribution agreement with the Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. was
terminated by us effective November 9, 2008.  The related terminated distributor
territories are now serviced by a combination of TCCC North American Bottlers
and AB Distributors.  Wal-Mart, Inc.
(including Sam’s Club), a customer of both the DSD and Warehouse divisions,
accounted for approximately 11%, 12% and 12% of our net sales for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

 

Seasonality

 

Sales of ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat
seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for the
highest sales volumes.  The volume of
sales in the beverage business may be affected by weather conditions.  Sales of our beverage products may become
increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations as more sales occur outside of
California with respect to our products. 
However, the energy drink category appears to be less seasonal than
traditional beverages.  As the percentage
of our sales that are represented by such products continues to increase,
seasonal fluctuations will be further mitigated.  Quarterly fluctuations may also be affected
by other factors, including the introduction of new products, the opening of
new markets where temperature fluctuations are more pronounced, the addition of
new bottlers and distributors, changes in the mix of sales of our finished
products and changes in and/or increased advertising, marketing and promotional
expenses.

 

Intellectual
Property

 

We own
numerous trademarks that are very important to our business.  Depending
upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or
their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to
have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed
as long as the trademarks are in use.  We also own the copyright in and to
numerous statements made and content appearing on the packaging of our
products.

 

We own
the Hansen’s®, Monster Energy®, M (stylized)® and the M Monster Energy®
trademarks.  These trademarks are crucial to our business and are
registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in various countries
throughout the world. We own a number of other trademark registrations in a
number of countries around the world including, but not limited to:  Vidration®, A New Kind a Buzz®, Unleash the
Beast!®, AssaultÒ, Mean BeanÒ,
Loca MocaÒ, Hansen’s Energy®, Blue Energy®, Energade®,
RumbaÒ, FizzitÒ, Hansen’s E2O
Energy Water®, Hansen’s Slim Down®, Power Formula®, The Real Deal®,
Liquidfruit®, California’s Natural Choice®, Medicine Man®, Hansen’s Power®,
B·Well®, Anti-ox®, D-stress®, Stamina®, Immunejuice®, Hansen’s Natural
Multi-Vitamin Juice Slam®, Juice Blast®, Red Rocker®, and Hansen’s Natural Soda®
in the United States and, the Monster®, Monster Energy®, M(stylized)®, Hansen’s®
and Smoothie® trademarks.

 

We
have applied to register a number of trademarks in the United States and
elsewhere including, but not limited to:  Monster™, Monster Energy™,
M(stylized)™, Khaos™, Monster M-80™, BFCÔ,
Predator™, Mutant™, Ace™,  Junior WaterÔ,  Fizz Bomb™, Java Monster™, Java Monster Big
Black™, Monster OriginaleÔ, Chai Hai™, Irish
Blend™, Java Monster Russian™, Nut-Up™, Lo-Ball™, The Juice is Loose™, Monster
MIXXD™, Heavy Metal™, Monster Black IceÔ,
Monster HitmanÔ, Monster Hitman Energy ShooterÔ
and Energy Pro™.

 

In September 2000,
in connection with the acquisition of the Blue Sky Natural Beverage business,
we acquired the Blue Sky® trademark which is registered in the United States
and Canada, through our wholly owned subsidiary Blue Sky.

 

15












 

In May 2001,
in connection with the acquisition of the Junior Juice beverage business, we
acquired the Junior Juice® trademark, which is registered in the United States,
through our wholly owned subsidiary Junior Juice.

 

In October 2006,
we acquired the Unbound Energy® trademark which is registered in the United
States. On February 18, 2009, we assigned all of our right, title and
interest in and to the Unbound Energy® trademark to BP Products North America, Inc.

 

Government Regulation

 

The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of
our products is subject to various federal and state regulations, including but
not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary Supplement
Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act;
various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local
statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale,
safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products.  Outside the United States, the production,
distribution and sale of many of our products is also subject to numerous
similar and other statutes and regulations.

 

California law requires that a specific warning appear on any product
that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been
found to cause cancer or birth defects. 
The law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of
having to provide warnings on their products because the law recognizes no
generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning is not
required.  Consequently, even trace
amounts of listed components can expose affected products to the prospect of
warning labels.  Products containing
listed substances that occur naturally in the product or that are contributed
to the product solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the
warning requirement.  While none of our
beverage products are required to display warnings under this law, we cannot
predict whether an important component of any of our products might be added to
the California list in the future.  We
also are unable to predict whether, or to what extent, a warning under this law
would have an impact on costs or sales of our products.

 

Measures have been enacted in various localities and states that
require that a deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers.  The precise requirements imposed by these
measures vary.  Other deposit, recycling
or product stewardship proposals have been introduced in certain states and
localities and in Congress, and we anticipate that similar legislation or
regulations may be proposed in the future at the local, state and federal
levels, both in the United States and elsewhere.

 

Compliance
with Environmental Laws

 

Our
facilities in the United States are subject to federal, state and local
environmental laws and regulations. 
Compliance with these provisions has not had, and we do not expect such
compliance to have, any material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures,
net income or competitive position.

 

In
California, we are required to collect redemption values from our customers and
to remit such redemption values to the State of California Department of
Conservation based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated
and non-carbonated products sold.  In certain other states and Canada
where Hansen’s® products are sold, we are also required to collect deposits
from our customers and to remit such deposits to the respective state agencies
based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and
non-carbonated products sold in such states.

 

16












 

Employees

 

As of December 31,
2008, we employed a total of 1,270 employees of which 564 were employed on a
full-time basis.  Of our 1,270 employees,
we employ 250 in administrative and operational capacities and 1,020 persons in
sales and marketing capacities.

 

Available Information

 

Our Internet
address is www.hansens.com. 
Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report
on Form 10-K.  Our annual report on Form 10-K
and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q will be made available free of charge
on www.hansens.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).   In
addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no
cost by writing or telephoning us at the following address or telephone number:

 

Hansen Natural Corporation

550 Monica Circle, Suite 201

Corona, CA 92880

(951) 739-6200

(800) HANSENS

(800) 426-7367

 

17












 

ITEM 1A.               RISK FACTORS

 

In
addition to the other information in this report, you should carefully consider
the following risks.  If any of the
following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or
operating results could be materially adversely affected.  The risk factors summarized below are not the
only risks we face.  Additional risks and
uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be
immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial
condition and/or operating results.

 

Current global economic
conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of
operations.

 

The global credit and financial markets have been
experiencing extreme disruptions in recent months, including severely
diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence,
declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty
about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be
further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in
economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as
ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our
future business activities. The current adverse global economic conditions and
tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers to postpone
spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their
existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties
experienced by our suppliers or customers could result in product delays,
increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. We are unable
to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the
credit and financial markets and adverse global economic conditions, and if the
current uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, our
business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

 

Increased
competition could hurt our business.

 

The
beverage industry is highly competitive. 
The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development
of new products and flavors and marketing campaigns.  Our products compete with a wide range of
drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which
have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than
we do.

 

Important factors affecting our ability to compete
successfully include the taste and flavor of our products, trade and consumer
promotions, rapid and effective development of new, unique cutting edge
products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising and
pricing.  Our products compete with all
liquid refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially better
financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and
internationally known producers such as The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo Inc.,
Cadbury Schweppes plc, Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods Inc., Nestle Beverage
Company, Tree Top and Ocean Spray.  We
also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local in
operation.  Our products also compete
with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains,
convenience store chains, and club stores. 
Our Java Monster™ line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee drinks
competes directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks
Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar
Roasted, Caribou Coffee, Cinnabon coffee drinks, Godiva dairy based drinks and
Full Throttle Coffee.

 

There
can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in maintaining our
current revenues or market share or position due to competition in the beverage
industry.  If our revenues decline, our
business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely
affected.

 

18












 

We derive a substantial portion of revenues from
our energy drinks and competitive pressure in the “energy drink” category could
adversely affect our operating results.

 

A substantial
portion of our sales are derived from our energy drinks, including in
particular our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. Our DSD segment which
comprises primarily energy drinks, represented 90.7% of net sales for the year
ended December 31, 2008.  Any
decrease in the sales of our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks could
significantly adversely affect our future revenues and net income.
Historically, we have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in
the energy drink category.  Our energy
drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp,
Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, Vitaminenergy, 5-Hour
Energy Shot, Redline Energy Shot, NOS Energy Shot, Rockstar Energy Shot, Full
Throttle Quick Shot, Amp Energy Shot and many other brands.  A number of companies who market and
distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in different packages, such as 16- and
20-ounce glass bottles, including Sobe, Snapple, Arizona, Fuse, and Vitamin
Water, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their
products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional”
benefits.  In addition, certain large
companies such as TCCC and PepsiCo Inc., market and/or distribute products in
that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and
Vault.  Competitive pressures in the
energy drink category could impact our revenues or we could experience price
erosion or lower market share, any of which could have a material adverse
affect on our business and results.

 

Change in
consumer preferences may reduce demand for some of our products.

 

There is increasing awareness and concern for the health
consequences of obesity.  This may reduce
demand for our non-diet beverages, which could affect our profitability.

 

Consumers
are seeking greater variety in their beverages. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our continued ability to
develop and introduce different and innovative beverages.  In order to retain and expand our market
share, we must continue to develop and introduce different and innovative
beverages and be competitive in the areas of quality and health, although there
can be no assurance of our ability to do so. There is no assurance that
consumers will continue to purchase our products in the future.  Additionally, many of our products are
considered premium products and to maintain market share during recessionary
periods we may have to reduce profit margins which would adversely affect our
results of operations.  Product
lifecycles for some beverage brands and/or products and/or packages may be
limited to a few years before consumers’ preferences change.  The beverages we currently market are in
varying stages of their lifecycles and there can be no assurance that such
beverages will become or remain profitable for us.  The
beverage industry is subject to changing consumer preferences and shifts in
consumer preferences may adversely affect us if we misjudge such
preferences.  We may be unable to achieve
volume growth through product and packaging initiatives.  We also may be unable to penetrate new
markets.  If our revenues decline,
our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely
affected.

 

We rely
on bottlers and other contract packers to manufacture our products. If we are
unable to maintain good relationships with our bottlers and contract packers
and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes constrained or
unavailable to us, our business could suffer.

 

We do not directly manufacture our products, but
instead outsource such manufacturing to bottlers and other contract
packers.  In the event of a
disruption or delay, we may be unable to procure alternative packing facilities
at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time
period.  In addition, there are limited
alternative packing facilities in the United States with adequate capacity
and/or suitable equipment for many of our products, including Hansen’s® brand
energy drinks in 8.3-ounce cans, our PET tea line, Hansen’s® Sparkling
beverages in 10.5-ounce sleek cans, aseptic juice products, juices in 64-ounce
PET plastic bottles,  Monster Energy®,
Lost® Energy™, Rumba®,
Samba, Tango and Joker Mad EnergyTM energy drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 16-ounce
and/or 24-ounce

 

19











 

and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml aluminum cans and/or 500ml glass bottles,
our Java MonsterTM line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee
drinks in 15-ounce cans, Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTM’s and other products.   A disruption or delay in production of any
of such products could significantly affect our revenues from such products as
alternative co-packing facilities in the United States with adequate capacity
may not be available for such products either at commercially reasonable rates,
and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all.  Consequently, a disruption in production of
such products could adversely affect our revenues.

 

We rely on
bottlers and distributors to distribute our DSD products.  If we are unable to secure such bottlers and
distributors and/or we are unable to maintain good relationships with our
existing bottlers and distributors, our business could suffer.

 

We continually
seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with
regional bottlers or other direct store delivery distributors having
established sales, marketing and distribution organizations.  Many of our bottlers and distributors are
affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other soda and non-carbonated
brands and other beverage products (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic),
including energy drinks.  In many cases,
such products compete directly with our products.

 

The marketing
efforts of our distributors are important for our success.  If our DSD brands prove to be less attractive
to our existing bottlers and distributors and/or if we fail to attract
additional bottlers and distributors, and/or our bottlers and/or distributors
do not market and promote our products with greater focus in preference to the
products of our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of
operations could be adversely affected.

 

The TCCC North American
Bottlers and AB Distributors are our primary domestic and international
distributors of our Monster Energy® beverages. 
If we are unable to maintain good relationships with the TCCC North
American Bottlers and AB Distributors, or if the TCCC North American Bottlers
and/or AB Distributors do not market and promote our products above the
products of our competitors, sales of our Monster Energy® beverages could be
adversely affected.

 

Our customers are material to our success.  If we are unable to maintain good
relationships with our existing customers, our business could suffer.

 

Unilateral
decisions could be taken by our distributors, convenience chains, grocery
chains, specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers to discontinue
carrying all or any of our products that they are carrying at any time, which
could cause our business to suffer.

 

The Dr. Pepper
Snapple Group, Inc., a former customer of the DSD division, accounted for
approximately 13%, 16% and 19% of our net sales for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Our
distribution agreement with the Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. was
terminated by us effective November 9, 2008.  The related terminated distributor
territories are now serviced by a combination of the TCCC North American
Bottlers and AB Distributors.  If the
TCCC North American Bottlers and/or AB Distributors are generally not as
successful in selling our products as the Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc.
was, this could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of
operations.

 

Wal-Mart, Inc.
(including Sam’s Club), a customer of both the DSD and Warehouse divisions,
accounted for approximately 11%, 12% and 12% of our net sales for each of the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  A
decision by Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), or any other large customer, to decrease
the amount purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of
operations.

 

20












 

Increases in cost or shortages of
raw materials or increases in costs of co-packing could harm our business.

 

The principal raw materials used by us are aluminum cans, glass bottles
and PET plastic bottles as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk
and cream, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. Overall, the prices
of aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, certain juice concentrates and sugar
increased in 2008 as compared to 2007. 
In addition, certain of our co-pack arrangements allow such co-packers to
increase their charges based on certain of their own cost increases.  We are uncertain whether the prices of any of
the above or any other raw materials or ingredients will rise in the future and
whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our customers.  We do not use hedging agreements or
alternative instruments to manage the risks associated with securing sufficient
ingredients or raw materials.

 

In addition, some of
these raw materials, such as sucralose and certain sizes of cans, are available
from a limited number of suppliers. 
Sucralose, which is used in many of our products including our
low-calorie products, is purchased by us from a single manufacturer. While we
believe that our 2009 sucralose volume allocation will be sufficient to meet
the demand for our products that contain sucralose, we may need to reformulate
certain of those products that contain sucralose with alternative sweetener
systems to avoid an interruption in supply of those products, should the need
arise.

 

Our
failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect
our business and financial results.

 

We may not correctly
estimate demand for our products.  Our
ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new
products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly
in new markets.  If we materially
underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient
ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to, PET plastic bottles,
cans, glass, labels, sucralose, flavors, supplements, certain sweeteners, or
packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term
basis.  Moreover, industry-wide shortages
of certain juice concentrates, supplements and sweeteners have been and could,
from time to time in the future, be experienced.  Such shortages could interfere with and/or
delay production of certain of our products and could have a material adverse
effect on our business and financial results. 
We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to
manage this risk.

 

The costs of packaging supplies
are subject to price increases from time to time and we may be unable to pass
all or some of such increased costs on to our customers.

 

Many of our packaging
supplies contracts allow our suppliers to alter the costs they charge us for
packaging supplies based on changes in the costs of the underlying commodities
that are used to produce those packaging supplies, such as resin for PET
bottles, aluminum for cans, pulp for cartons and/or trays.  These changes in the prices we pay for our
packaging supplies occur at certain predetermined times that vary by product
and supplier.  In some cases, we fix the
prices of certain packaging supplies for a reasonable period. In other cases,
we bear the risk of increases in the costs of these packaging supplies,
including the underlying costs of the commodities that comprise these packaging
supplies. We do not use derivative instruments to manage this risk.  If the costs of these packaging supplies increase,
we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers through
corresponding adjustments to the prices we charge, which could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.

 

We rely upon our ongoing
relationships with our key flavor suppliers. 
If we are unable to source our flavors on acceptable terms from our key
suppliers, we could suffer disruptions in our business.

 

Generally, flavor
suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors.  Consequently, we do not have the list of
ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our concentrates readily
available to 

 

21












 

us and we may be unable
to obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short
notice. Industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates, supplements and
sweeteners have been, and could, from time to time in the future, be
experienced.  Such shortages could
interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products.  If we have to replace a flavor supplier, we
could experience temporary disruptions in our ability to deliver products to
our customers which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.

 

Our intellectual property rights
are critical to our success, the loss of such rights could materially adversely
affect our business.

 

We own numerous
trademarks that are very important to our business.  We also own the copyright in and to a portion
of the content on the packaging of our products.  We regard our trademarks, copyrights, and
similar intellectual property as critical to our success and attempt to protect
such property with registered and common law trademarks and copyrights,
restrictions on disclosure and other actions to prevent infringement.  Product packages, mechanical designs and
artwork are important to our success and we take action to protect against
imitation of our packaging and trade dress and to protect our trademarks and
copyrights as necessary.  However, there
can be no assurance that other third parties will not infringe or
misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights.  If we lose some or all of our intellectual
property rights, our business may be materially adversely affected.

 

Significant changes in government
regulation may hinder sales.

 

The production,
distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products is subject
to various federal and state regulations, including, but not limited to: the
Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and
Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various
environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local statutes and
regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety,
advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. New statutes and
regulations may also be instituted in the future. If a regulatory authority
finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance
with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or such products may have to be
recalled and/or reformulated and/or packaging changed, thus adversely affecting
our financial condition and operations. California law requires that a specific
warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of
California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects.  While none of our beverage products are
required to display warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether an
important component of any of our products might be added to the California
list in the future.  We also are unable
to predict whether or to what extent a warning under this law would have an
impact on costs or sales of our products.

 

If we are unable to maintain
brand image or product quality, or if we encounter product recalls, our
business may suffer.

 

Our success depends on
our ability to maintain and build brand image for our existing products, new
products and brand extensions. We have no assurance that our advertising,
marketing and promotional programs will have the desired impact on our products’
brand image and on consumer preferences. 
Product quality issues, real or imagined, or allegations of product
contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the
affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products.  We may be required from time to time to
recall products entirely or from specific co-packers, markets or batches.  Product recalls could adversely affect our
profitability and our brand image.  We do
not maintain recall insurance.

 

While we have to date not
experienced any credible product liability litigation, there is no assurance
that we will not experience such litigation in the future.  In the event we were to experience product
liability claims or a product recall, our financial condition and business
operations could be materially adversely effected.

 

22












 

If we do not maintain sufficient
inventory levels or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers
in sufficient quantities, or if our retailers’ inventory levels are too high,
our operating results will be adversely affected.

 

If we do not accurately
anticipate the future demand for a particular product or the time it will take
to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels will not be appropriate and our
results of operations may be negatively impacted.  If we fail to meet our shipping schedules, we
could damage our relationships with distributors and/or retailers, increase our
shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to
be able to deliver our products on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate
inventory levels of the desired products. 
If the inventory of our products held by our distributors and/or
retailers is too high, they will not place orders for additional products,
which would unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our
operating results.

 

If we are not able to retain the
full-time services of senior management there may be an adverse effect on our
operations and/or our operating performance until we find suitable
replacements.

 

Our business is
dependent, to a large extent, upon the services of our senior management.  We do not maintain key person life insurance
for any members of our senior management. 
The loss of services of either Mr. Sacks, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, Mr. Schlosberg, President and Chief Financial Officer,
or any other key members of our senior management could adversely affect our
business until suitable replacements can be found.  There may be a limited number of personnel
with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to
locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms.

 

Weather could adversely affect
our supply chain and demand for our products.

 

With regard to fruit
juice, fruit juice concentrates and natural flavors, the beverage industry is
subject to variability of weather conditions, which may result in higher prices
and/or the nonavailability of any of such items.  Sales of our products may also be influenced
to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate,
particularly in areas outside of California. 
Weather conditions may influence consumer demand for certain of our
beverages, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

 

Potential changes in accounting
practices and/or taxation may adversely affect our financial results.

 

We cannot predict the
impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on our
financial results.  New accounting
standards could be issued that could change the way we record revenues,
expenses, assets and liabilities.  These
changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported
earnings.  Increases in direct and
indirect income tax rates could affect after tax income.   Equally, increases in indirect taxes
(including environmental taxes pertaining to the disposal of beverage
containers) could affect our products’ affordability and reduce our sales.

 

Volatility of stock price may
restrict sale opportunities.

 

Our
stock price is affected by a number of factors, including stockholder
expectations, financial results, the introduction of new products by us and our
competitors, general economic and market conditions, estimates and projections
by the investment community and public comments by other persons and many other
factors, many of which are beyond our control. 
We may be unable to achieve analysts’ earnings forecasts, which may be
based on projected volumes and sales of many product types and/or new products,
certain of which are more profitable than others.  There can be no assurance that the Company
will achieve projected levels or mixes of product sales. As a result, our stock
price is subject to significant volatility and stockholders may not be able to
sell our stock at attractive prices.  

 

23












 

During
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, our stock price high was $45.63
and stock price low was $20.52.

 

Provisions in our organizational
documents and control by insiders may prevent changes in control even if such
changes would be beneficial to other stockholders.

 

Our organizational
documents may limit changes in control. 
Furthermore, as of February 6, 2009, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg
together may be deemed to control a maximum of 22.1% of our outstanding common
stock.  Consequently, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg
could exercise significant control on matters submitted to a vote of our
stockholders, including electing directors, amending organizational documents
and disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt, even
though such actions may be favorable to the other common stockholders.

 

Our cash flow may not be
sufficient to fund our long term goals.

 

We may be unable to
generate sufficient cash flow to support our capital expenditure plans and
general operating activities.  In
addition, the terms and/or availability of our credit facility and/or the
activities of our creditors could affect the financing of our future growth.

 

Our investments in marketable securities are
subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these
investments.

 

At
December 31, 2008, we had $256.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and
$118.7 million in short- and long-term investments. We have historically
invested these amounts in U.S. Treasury bills, government agencies and
municipal securities (which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes
and bonds, commercial paper and money market funds meeting certain criteria.
Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market
and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by U.S. sub-prime mortgage
defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused
credit and liquidity issues. These market risks associated with our investment
portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our future results of
operations, liquidity and financial condition.

 

Certain of our short-term investments and all of our long-term
investments are comprised of municipal or educational related or other public
body notes with an auction reset feature (“auction rate securities”). The
majority of these notes carry an investment grade or better credit rating and
are additionally backed by various federal agencies and/or monoline insurance
companies. The applicable interest rate is reset at pre-determined intervals,
usually every 7 to 35 days. 
Liquidity for these auction rate securities was typically provided by an
auction process which allowed holders to sell their notes at periodic
auctions.  At December 31, 2008, we
held auction rate securities with a face value of $112.5 million.  Subsequent to December 31, 2008, we
redeemed $8.1 million of auction rate securities at par, which are included in
short-term investments in our consolidated financial statements.  During the year ended December 31, 2008,
a large portion of the auctions for these auction rate securities failed. We
determined that there was an impairment of our auction rate securities of $14.9
million, resulting in a fair value of $89.6 million, which is included in
long-term investments in our consolidated financial statements.  We determined that of the $14.9 million
impairment of our auction rate securities, $14.4 million was deemed
temporary.  This amount has been
recorded, net of a tax benefit of $5.7 million, as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, we
determined that $0.5 million of the impairment was other-than-temporary and
recorded a charge to interest and other income, net in our consolidated
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008.  There is no assurance that auctions on the
remaining auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will succeed. The
auction failures appear to have been attributable to inadequate buyers and/or
buying demand and/or the lack of support from financial advisors and sponsors.
In the event that there is a failed auction, the indenture governing the security
in some cases requires the issuer to pay interest at a 

 

24












 

default
rate that is above market rates for similar instruments. The securities for
which auctions have failed will continue to accrue and/or pay interest at their
predetermined default rates and be auctioned every 7 to 35 days until
their respective auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities, they mature
or we are able to sell the securities to third parties. As a result, our ability
to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate
securities in the near term may be limited. Consequently, certain of these
securities have been classified as long-term investments in our consolidated
financial statements.  We anticipate that
due to the higher interest rates now payable on certain of these securities and
for other reasons, certain issuers are likely to take steps to refinance their
notes to enable them to call and repay the securities and therefore avoid the
higher interest rates now payable on such securities.

 

If
the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to refinance their
debts and call the notes or successfully close future auctions and their credit
ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record additional
impairment charges on these investments. If uncertainties in the credit and
capital markets continue or there are ratings downgrades on the auction rate
securities held by us, we may be required to recognize additional impairments
on these investments. We may be required to wait until market stability is
restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying
notes (up to 40 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value. (See “Part II,
Item 7A — Qualitative And Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risks” and “Part II,
Item 8, Note 3 — Investments” in our consolidated financial statements).

 

If we fail to maintain effective
disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial
reporting on a consolidated basis, our stock price and investor confidence in
our Company could be materially and adversely affected.

 

We are required to maintain both disclosure controls and procedures and
internal control over financial reporting that are effective for the purposes
described in “Part II, Item 9A — Controls and Procedures.”  If we fail to do so, our business, results of
operations, financial condition or the value of our stock could be materially
harmed.

 

Litigation or legal proceedings
could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our
financial results.

 

We
are a party, from time to time, to various litigation claims and legal
proceedings, including, but not limited to, intellectual property, fraud,
unfair business practices and false advertising, breach of contract claims,
securities actions and shareholder derivative actions.  Material legal proceedings are described more
fully in “Part I, Item 3 — Legal Proceedings” and in Part II, Item 8,
Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K.

 

Defending
these proceedings will result in significant ongoing expenditures and the
continued diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation
of our business, which could have a negative effect on our business
operations.  Our failure to successfully
defend or settle any of these litigations or legal proceedings could result in
liability that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have a
material adverse effect on our financial conditions, revenue and profitability,
and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.

 

Operations outside the United
States expose us to uncertain conditions and other risks in international
markets.

 

Our gross sales to
customers outside of the United States were approximately 8.2% of consolidated
gross sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 and our growth strategy
includes expanding our international business. We face and will continue to
face substantial risks associated with having foreign operations, including:
economic or political instability in our international markets; restrictions on
or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States,
including 

 

25












 

possible taxes or
withholding obligations on any repatriations; and the imposition of tariffs or
trade restrictions.  These risks could
have a significant impact on our ability to sell our products on a competitive
basis in international markets and could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  Also, our operations outside of the United
States are subject to risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in
staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud
or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially
adverse tax consequences.  We are also exposed
to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, expenses,
profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S.
dollar. We have not used instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks
and are not protected against foreign currency fluctuations.  As a result, our reported earnings may be
affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable
impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time.

 

We must successfully maintain
and/or upgrade our information technology systems.

 

We rely on various
information technology systems to manage our operations. During the fourth
quarter of 2008, we resolved to commence the implementation of the SAP
enterprise resource planning system to replace our legacy systems.  The implementation is scheduled to be
completed in the first quarter of 2010. This implementation subjects us to take
on inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these
systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer orders,
potential disruption of the internal control structure, substantial capital
expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or
difficulties in transitioning to a new system. 
The implementation of this system may not result in productivity
improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all.
Any information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and
appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on our business and
operations.

 

ITEM 1B