Item 1A – “Risk Factors” below."

             

            
            Products

             

            
            Natural Sodas. Hansen’s Natural
            Sodas® have been a leading natural soda brand in Southern California for the past
            25 years. In 2007, according to Information Resources, Inc.'s Analyzer Reports for
            California, our natural sodas recorded the highest sales among comparable carbonated
            new age category beverages measured by unit volume in the California market. Our
            natural sodas are available in eleven regular flavors consisting of mandarin lime, key
            lime, grapefruit, raspberry, ginger ale, creamy root beer, vanilla cola, cherry vanilla
            creme, orange mango, kiwi strawberry and pomegranate. In early 2001, we introduced a
            new line of diet sodas using Splenda® sweetener as the primary sweetener. We
            initially introduced this line in four flavors: peach, black cherry, tangerine lime,
            and kiwi strawberry, and have since added four additional flavors: ginger ale, creamy
            root beer, grapefruit and pomegranate. Our natural sodas contain no preservatives,
            sodium, caffeine or artificial coloring and are made with high quality natural flavors
            and citric acid. We are currently in the process of converting the sweeteners used in
            our natural sodas from high fructose corn syrup to cane sugar. Our diet sodas are
            sweetened with Splenda® and Acesulfame-K. We package our natural sodas in 12-ounce
            aluminum cans. In 2002, we introduced a line of natural mixers in 8-ounce aluminum cans
            comprising club soda, tonic water and ginger
            ale.

             

            
            In January 1999, we introduced a premium line of Signature Sodas in
            unique proprietary 14-ounce glass bottles. This line was marketed under the
            Hansen’s® brand name, primarily through our distributor network, in six
            flavors. In early 2003, we repositioned this line into lower cost 12-ounce glass
            packaging to market our repositioned Signature Soda line at lower price points directly
            to our retail customers such as grocery chains, club stores, specialty retail chains
            and mass merchandisers and to the health food sector through specialty and health food
            distributors (collectively referred to as our “direct

             

            
            5

             

             
            

            
            retail customers”). Signature Soda was available in 12-ounce glass
            bottles in four flavors: orange crème, vanilla crème, ginger beer and
            sarsaparilla. We are in the process of discontinuing this product.

             

            
            In September 2000, we acquired the Blue Sky® natural soda business
            from BSNBC. Our Blue Sky® product line comprises natural sodas, premium sodas,
            organic natural sodas, seltzer water, energy drinks, tea sodas and isotonic sports
            drinks. Blue Sky® natural sodas are available in twelve regular flavors consisting
            of lemon lime, grapefruit, cola, root beer, raspberry, cherry vanilla creme, Jamaican
            ginger ale, black cherry, orange creme, Dr. Becker, grape and cream soda. We also offer
            a premium line of Blue Sky® natural sodas which contain supplements such as
            ginseng. This line is available in four flavors consisting of ginseng cola, ginseng
            root beer, ginseng ginger ale and ginseng pomegranate. During 1999, Blue Sky®
            introduced a line of organic natural sodas, which are available in six flavors
            consisting of lemon lime, new century cola, orange divine, ginger ale, black cherry
            cherish, and root beer. We also market a seltzer water under the Blue Sky® label in
            three flavors: natural, lime and lemon. In 2002, we introduced a lightly carbonated
            Blue Sky® energy drink in an 8.3-ounce slim can. In 2006, we introduced a 16-ounce
            size of Blue Energy as well as both an 8.3-ounce and 16-ounce size of Blue Sky Juiced
            Energy, which is lightly carbonated and contains 50% juice. In 2004, we introduced a
            new line of Blue Sky® natural tea sodas in four flavors consisting of Imperial Lime
            Green Tea, Peach Mist Green Tea, Pomegranate White Tea and Raspberry Red Tea. We have
            since discontinued the Raspberry Red Tea flavor. The Blue Sky® products contain no
            preservatives, sodium or caffeine (other than the energy drink) or artificial coloring
            and are made with high quality natural flavors. Blue Sky® natural sodas, seltzer
            waters and tea sodas are all packaged in 12-ounce aluminum cans and are marketed
            primarily to direct retail customers. In March 2005, we introduced a new light line of
            Blue Sky® sodas using natural sweeteners in four flavors: cherry vanilla
            crème, creamy root beer, Jamaican ginger ale and wild raspberry in 12-ounce
            cans. We have since discontinued the wild raspberry flavor. In the third quarter of
            2005, we introduced a new line of Blue Sky® natural sodas with real sugar in
            12-ounce cans in four flavors: cherry vanilla crème, cola, ginger ale and root
            beer. In December 2005, we introduced a new line of Blue Sky® isotonic sports
            drinks in 16-ounce polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) plastic bottles in
            three flavors: orange, lemon lime, fruit punch and have subsequently added a fourth
            flavor, blue sky pomegranate. We are currently in the process of converting the
            sweeteners used in those Blue Sky® products that contain high fructose corn syrup
            to cane sugar.

            
             

            
            In 2006, we introduced a new line of Hansen’s green tea sodas
            under the Hansen® brand name in 16-ounce aluminum cans that contain no
            preservatives, sodium, caffeine or artificial colors, in four flavors; ginger, lemon
            mint, tangerine and pomegranate. We also introduced a diet version that contains no
            carbohydrates or sugar in three flavors: tangerine, lemon mint, ginger and in 2007,
            introduced an additional diet flavor, pomegranate.

            
             

            
            In 2007, we introduced a new line of Hansen’s natural flavored
            sparkling beverages under the Hansen® brand name in contemporary 10.5-ounce sleek
            cans in four flavors: blueberry pomegranate, cranberry grapefruit, valencia orange and
            dragonfruit. We also introduced a sparkling green tea line in contemporary 10.5-ounce
            sleek cans in two flavors: tangerine and pomegranate. These sparkling beverages are
            available in 90 calorie per can versions, sweetened with cane sugar; as well as in
            sugar free versions, sweetened with Splenda® and Acesulfame-K.

             

            
            Hansen’s® Energy Drinks. In 1997,
            we introduced a lightly carbonated citrus flavored Hansen's® energy drink in
            8.3-ounce cans in 4 packs. Our energy drink competes in the “functional”
            beverage category, namely, beverages that provide a real or perceived benefit in
            addition to simply delivering refreshment. We also offered additional functional energy
            drinks as well as other functional drinks including a ginger flavored d-stress®
            drink, an orange flavored b-well™ drink, a guarana berry flavored stamina®
            drink, a grape flavored power drink, and a berry flavored “slim-down” drink
            that contained no calories, in the same size cans. We have since discontinued sales of
            such additional functional products. Our energy drinks contain vitamins, minerals,
            nutrients, herbs and supplements (collectively “supplements”). In 2004, we
            offered our Hansen’s® energy drink in 16-ounce cans which has subsequently
            been discontinued. From 2006, we marketed our Hansen’s brand energy drinks
            through the Warehouse segment and introduced Hansen’s® Energy Pro™
            8.3-ounce cans in four packs. In 2001,

             

            
            6

             

             
            

            we
            introduced Energade®, a non-carbonated energy sports drink in 23.5-ounce cans. We
            are currently reevaluating the Energade® line. In 2001, we also introduced
            E2O Energy Water®, a non-carbonated lightly flavored water, in 24-ounce
            blue PET plastic bottles which has subsequently been discontinued. At the end of 2002,
            we introduced a lightly carbonated diet energy drink in 8.3-ounce cans under the
            Hansen’s Diet Red Energy® brand name. Our Diet Red Energy® energy drink
            is sweetened with Splenda® and Acesulfame-K.

             

            
            Monster
            Energy®Drinks.
            In 2002, we launched a new carbonated energy drink under the Monster
            Energy® brand name, in 16-ounce cans, which was almost double the size of our
            regular energy drinks in 8.3-ounce cans and of the vast majority of competitive energy
            drinks on the market at that time. Our Monster Energy® drink contains different
            types and levels of supplements than our Hansen’s® energy drinks and is
            marketed through our full service distributor network. In 2003, we introduced a low
            carbohydrate (“Lo-Carb”) version of our Monster Energy® energy drink.
            In 2004, we introduced 4-packs of our Monster Energy® energy drinks including our
            Lo-Carb version and, towards the end of 2004, we launched a new Monster Energy®
            Assault™ energy drink in 16-ounce cans. During the first half of 2005, we
            introduced our Monster Energy® drinks and Lo-Carb Monster Energy® in 24-ounce
            size cans as well as Monster Energy®, Lo-Carb Monster Energy® and Monster
            Energy® Assault™ in 8.3-ounce size cans. In September 2005, we introduced a
            new Monster Energy® Khaos™ energy drink in 16-ounce cans. Monster Energy®
            Khaos™ is lightly carbonated and contains 50% juice. In 2006, we introduced our
            Monster Energy® Assault™ and Monster Energy® Khaos™ energy drinks
            in 24-ounce size cans. Also in 2006, we introduced Monster Energy® Khaos™
            energy drinks in 8.3-ounce size cans. During the first quarter 2007, we introduced
            Monster Energy® energy drinks in 8-packs and in September 2007, we introduced
            Monster Energy® energy drinks in 32-ounce cans. In March 2007 we introduced a new
            Monster M-80™ energy drink in 16-ounce size cans and added 8.3-ounce and 24-ounce
            sized cans of this drink in October 2007. Monster M-80™ energy drinks are lightly
            carbonated and contain 80% juice. In November 2007, we introduced a new Monster Heavy
            Metal™ energy drink in 32-ounce size cans. In December 2007, we introduced a new
            Monster MIXXD™ energy drink in 8.3-ounce, 16-ounce and 24-ounce size cans.
            Monster MIXXD™ energy drinks are lightly carbonated and contain 30%
            juice.

             

            
            Lost®Energy™
            Drinks. In 2004, we launched a new carbonated energy drink
            under the Lost® brand name, in 16-ounce cans and have subsequently added an
            8.3-ounce version. Towards the end of 2005, we introduced a lo-carb version of
            Lost® under the Perfect 10™ brand name as well as a new Lost®
            Five-O™ energy drink, all in 16-ounce cans. Lost® Five-O™ contains 50%
            juice and is lightly carbonated. In December 2005, we introduced Lost® and
            Lost® Five-O™ in 24-ounce size cans. In November 2007, we introduced a new
            Lost® Cadillac™ energy drink in 16-ounce cans. The Lost® brand name is
            owned by Lost International LLC and the drinks are produced, sold and distributed by us
            under exclusive license from Lost International LLC.

             

            
            Rumba™ Energy Juice. In December
            2004, we launched a new non-carbonated energy juice under the Rumba™ brand name
            in 15.5-ounce cans. Rumba™ energy juice is a 100% juice product that targets male
            and female morning beverage consumers and is positioned as a substitute for coffee,
            caffeinated sodas and 100% orange or other juices.

             

            
            Joker Mad Energy™
            Drinks. In the first quarter of 2005, we
            introduced Joker Mad Energy™ energy drinks in 16-ounce cans. Joker Mad
            Energy™ energy drinks come in regular, lo-carb and juice versions in 16-ounce
            cans.

            
             

            
            Ace™ Energy Drinks.
            In August 2006, we introduced Ace™ energy drinks in 16-ounce cans.
            Ace™ energy drinks come in regular, lo-carb and juice versions in 16-ounce
            cans.

             

            
            Unbound Energy® Drinks.
            In October 2006, we acquired the Unbound Energy®
            trademark and assumed the production, marketing and sale of Unbound
            Energy® energy drinks in
            16-ounce cans. We subsequently introduced lo-carb and juice versions in 16-ounce
            cans.

            
             

            
            7

             

             
            

            
            Java Monster™ Coffee Drinks. In May
            2007, we launched a new line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee drinks under the Java
            Monster™ brand name in 15-ounce cans. We initially introduced this line in three
            flavors: Big Black™ (since renamed Originale), Loca Moca™ and Mean
            Bean™, and have since added five additional flavors: Russian™, Irish
            Blend™, Chai Hai™, Nut Up™ and Lo-Ball™.

             

            
            Juice Products and Smoothies. Our fruit
            juice product line includes Hansen's® Natural Apple Juice, which is packaged in
            64-ounce PET plastic bottles and 128-ounce polypropylene bottles and White Grape, White
            Grape Peach, Purple Grape, Orange, Pomegranate, Apple Strawberry and Apple Grape juice
            blends, in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles. These Hansen's® juice products contain
            100% juice (except Pomegranate which contains 27% juice) as well as Vitamin C.
            Hansen's® juice products compete in the shelf-stable juice category. We also offer
            juice cocktails (cranberry raspberry, apple white grape, apple berry and apple) in
            32-ounce PET plastic bottles.

             

            
            In March 1995, we introduced a line of fruit juice smoothie drinks in
            11.5-ounce aluminum cans. Certain flavors were subsequently offered in glass and PET
            plastic bottles. We have since discontinued offering smoothies in glass and PET plastic
            bottle packages. Hansen’s fruit juice smoothies have a smooth texture that is
            thick but lighter than a nectar. In 2006, we reformulated Hansen’s smoothies by
            adding more fruit purees. Hansen’s smoothies in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans now
            contain approximately 25% juice. Our fruit juice smoothies provide 100% of the
            recommended daily intake for adults of Vitamins A, C & E and represented Hansen's
            entry into what is commonly referred to as the “functional” beverage
            category. Hansen's® fruit juice smoothies are available in seven flavors:
            strawberry banana, peach berry, mango pineapple, guava strawberry, pineapple coconut,
            whipped orange and Island Energy Blast. We have discontinued our lo-carb smoothie
            line.

            
             

            
            We market the above juice and smoothie products to our direct retail
            customers.

            
             

            
            Iced Teas. In 2006, we introduced a new
            line of iced teas in sleek 16-ounce wide mouth PET plastic bottles. This line is
            sweetened with cane sugar and includes green tea, peach green tea, lychee black tea and
            pomegranate green tea. In addition, we offer sugar free peach green tea, pomegranate
            green tea and acai black tea which are all sweetened with sucralose as well as an
            unsweetened black tea.

            
             

            
            Juices for Children. In 1999, we introduced
            two new lines of children's multi-vitamin juice drinks in 8.45-ounce aseptic boxes,
            which were subsequently transitioned to 6.75-ounce versions. Each drink contains eleven
            essential vitamins and six essential minerals. We introduce new flavors in place of
            existing flavors from time to time. One of these two lines is a dual-branded 100% juice
            line named Juice Blast® which was launched in conjunction with Costco Wholesale
            Corporation (“Costco”) and is sold through Costco stores. The other line
            was a 10% juice line named “Hansen’s Natural Multi-Vitamin Juice
            Slam®”, which was available to all of our customers. During 2000, we
            repositioned that latter line as a 100% juice line under the Juice Slam® name,
            which we market to grocery store chain customers, the health food trade, and other
            customers. Both the Juice Blast® and Juice Slam® lines are marketed in
            6.75-ounce aseptic boxes. The Juice Slam® line has four flavors and the Juice
            Blast® line has three flavors.

             

            
            In 2003, we further extended our fruit juice product line by introducing
            a 100% apple juice in 6.75-ounce aseptic pouches under the Apple Blasters™ brand.
            In 2006 we discontinued our Apple Blasters™ product and repositioned our pouch
            line by introducing two Juice Slam®
            organic pouches in organic apple and organic fruit punch flavors with
            100% juice.

             

            
            In May 2001, we acquired the Junior Juice® beverage business. The
            Junior Juice® product line is comprised of seven flavors of 100% juice in
            4.23-ounce aseptic packages and is targeted at toddlers. Six flavors of the Junior
            Juice® line have calcium added and all flavors have vitamin C added. The current
            flavors in the Junior Juice® line are apple, apple berry, orange twist, apple
            grape, mixed fruit, fruit punch and white grape.

            
             

            
            8

             

             
            

            
            In 2006, we extended the Junior Juice® line by adding organic apple
            and organic berry medley juice products in 4.23-ounce aseptic boxes. Each of our
            organic Junior Juice® products have 100% juice and contain 100% of the daily
            recommended allowance of vitamin C and 10% of the daily recommended allowance of
            calcium.

             

            
            Bottled Water. Our still water products
            were introduced in 1993 and are primarily sold in 0.5-liter plastic bottles to the food
            service trade. Sales of this product line are very limited.

             

            
            Fizzit™ Powdered Drink
            Mixes. In December 2005, we introduced a new line of vitamin
            and mineral drink mixes in powdered form under the Fizzit™ brand name in both
            functional and vitamin and mineral formulas. The functional formulas are offered in
            raspberry (joint formula), orange (immune support formula), strawberry (immune support
            formula) and cranberry (women’s health formula). The vitamin and mineral formula
            is offered in lemon lime and strawberry flavors.

             

            
            During 2007, we continued to expand our existing product lines and
            further develop our markets. In particular, we continued to focus on developing and
            marketing beverages that fall within the category generally described as the
            “alternative” beverage category, with particular emphasis on energy type
            drinks.

             

            
            Other Products

            
             

            
            We continue to evaluate and, where considered appropriate, introduce
            additional flavors and other types of beverages to complement our existing product
            lines. We will also evaluate, and may, where considered appropriate, introduce
            functional foods/snack foods that utilize similar channels of distribution and/or are
            complementary to our existing products and/or to which our brand names are able to add
            value.

             

            
            We also develop and supply, on a limited basis, selected beverages in
            different formats to a limited number of customers with the objective of solidifying
            our relationship with those customers.

             

            
            Manufacture and Distribution

             

            
            We do not directly manufacture our products but instead outsource the
            manufacturing process to third party bottlers and contract packers.

             

            
            We purchase concentrates, juices, flavors, supplements, cans, bottles,
            aseptic boxes, aseptic pouches, caps, labels, trays, boxes and other ingredients for
            our beverage products which are delivered to our various third party bottlers and
            co-packers. Depending on the product, the third party bottlers or packers add filtered
            water and/or sucrose, or cane sugar, or high fructose corn syrup or Splenda® brand
            sweetener, Acesulfame-K and/or citric acid or other ingredients and supplements for the
            manufacture and packaging of the finished products into Hansen approved containers in
            accordance with our formulas. In the case of sodas and other carbonated beverages, the
            bottler/packer adds carbonation to the products as part of the production
            process.

             

            
            We are generally responsible for arranging for the purchase of and
            delivery to our third party bottlers and co-packers of the containers in which our
            beverage products are packaged.

             

            
            All of our beverage products are manufactured by various third party
            bottlers and co-packers situated throughout the United States under separate
            arrangements with each of such parties. The majority of our co-packaging arrangements
            are on a month-to-month basis. However, certain of our co-packing arrangements are
            described below:

             

            
            (a) Our agreement with Gluek Brewing Company (“Gluek”)
            pursuant to which Gluek packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues
            until May 2008 and is automatically renewed for

             

            
            9

             

             
            

            one
            year periods thereafter. Either party is entitled at any time to terminate the
            agreement upon 180 days prior written notice to the other party.

            
             

            
            (b) Our agreement with Seven-Up/RC Bottling Company of Southern
            California, Inc. (“Seven-Up”) pursuant to which Seven-Up packages certain
            of our energy drinks. This contract continues until March 31, 2008. Upon termination
            prior to such time we are entitled to recover certain equipment we have purchased and
            installed at Seven-Up’s facility.

            
             

            
            (c) Our agreement with Nor-Cal Beverage Co., Inc.
            (“Nor-Cal”) pursuant to which Nor-Cal packages certain of our
            Hansen’s® juices in PET plastic bottles. This contract continues until August
            2008 and is automatically renewed for one year periods thereafter unless terminated by
            HBC not less than 90 days before the end of the then current term.

            
             

            
            (d) Our agreement with Dr. Pepper Bottling Co. (“Dr.
            Pepper”) pursuant to which Dr. Pepper packages certain of our energy drinks. This
            contract continues until December 31, 2009 and is automatically renewed for one year
            periods thereafter, unless terminated by either party with not less than 30 days
            notice.

            
             

            
            (e) Our agreement with Lucerne Foods, Inc.
            (“Safeway-Norwalk”) pursuant to which Safeway-Norwalk packages certain of
            our energy drinks and Hansen’s Natural Sodas®. This contract continues until
            March 31, 2009 and is renewable annually thereafter unless terminated by either party
            on not less than 6 months notice.

             

            
            (f) Our agreement with Pri-Pak, Inc. (“Pri-Pak”) pursuant to
            which Pri-Pak packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract continues
            indefinitely but may be terminated at any time by either party upon ninety (90) days
            prior written notice to the other.

            
             

            
            (g) Our agreement with Carolina Beer & Beverage pursuant to which
            Carolina Beer & Beverage packages certain of our energy drinks. This contract
            continues until April 10, 2009 and is automatically renewable for one year periods
            thereafter, unless terminated by either party on not less than 180 days
            notice.

            
             

            
            (h) Our agreement with Southeast Atlantic Beverage Corporation
            (“Southeast”) pursuant to which Southeast packages certain of our energy
            drinks. This contract continues until July 23, 2008 and is automatically renewable for
            one year periods thereafter, unless terminated by either party not less than 180 days
            prior to the end of the then current term.

            
             

            
            (i) Our agreement with Dairy Farmers of America, Inc.
            (“DFA”) pursuant to which DFA packages certain of our energy drinks. This
            contract continues until March 1, 2010 and is automatically renewable annually
            thereafter, unless either party provides notice of cancellation at least 90 calendar
            days prior to the end of the initial term.

             

            
            (j) Our agreement with Portland Bottling Company (“Portland
            Bottling”) pursuant to which Portland Bottling packages certain of our energy
            drinks. This contract continues until March 31, 2008 and is automatically renewable for
            one year periods. Either party is entitled, at any time, to terminate the agreement
            upon 90 days prior written notice to the other party.

             

            
            (k) Our agreement with O-AT-KA Milk Products Cooperative
            (“O-AT-KA”) pursuant to which O-AT-KA packages certain of our energy
            drinks. This contract continues until September 30, 2010 and is automatically renewable
            annually thereafter, unless either party provides notice of cancellation at least 90
            days prior to the end of the initial term.

             

            
            (l) Our agreement with Giumarra & Associates Beverage Company
            (“Giumarra”) pursuant to which Giumarra packages certain of our energy
            drinks and in due course, juices. This contract continues

             

            
            10

             

             
            

            
            until June 28, 2009 and is automatically renewable annually thereafter,
            unless either party provides notice of cancellation at least 180 days prior to the end
            of the current term.

             

            
            In certain instances, equipment is purchased by us and installed at the
            facilities of our co-packers to enable them to produce certain of our products. In
            general, such equipment remains our property and is to be returned to us upon
            termination of the packing arrangements with such co-packers or is amortized over a
            pre-determined number of cases that are to be produced at the facilities
            concerned.

             

            
            We pack certain products outside of the West Coast region to enable us
            to produce products closer to the markets where they are sold and thereby reduce
            freight costs. As volumes in markets outside of California grow, we continue to secure
            additional packing arrangements closer to such markets to further reduce freight
            costs.

             

            
            Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise,
            particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth,
            particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products or
            are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited
            to, glass, PET/plastic bottles, aseptic boxes, cans, labels, flavors or supplement
            ingredients or certain sweeteners, or packing arrangements, we might not be able to
            satisfy demand on a short-term basis.

             

            
            Although our production arrangements are generally of short duration or
            are terminable upon request, we believe a short disruption or delay would not
            significantly affect our revenues since alternative packing facilities in the United
            States with adequate capacity can usually be obtained for many of our products at
            commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. However,
            there are limited packing facilities in the United States with adequate capacity and/or
            suitable equipment for many of our products, including Hansen’s® brand energy
            drinks in 8.3-ounce cans, aseptic juice products, teas in 16-ounce PET/plastic bottles,
            Monster Energy®, Lost®
            Energy™, RumbaTM,
            Joker Mad EnergyTM, Ace™, Unbound Energy®
            energy drinks in 8.3-ounce, 16-ounce, 24-ounce and 32-ounce cans and the
            Java Monster™ line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee drinks in 15-ounce cans.
            A disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly affect
            our revenues from such products as alternative co-packing facilities in the United
            States with adequate capacity may not be available for such products either at
            commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all.
            Consequently, a disruption in production of such products could affect our revenues. We
            continue to seek alternative and/or additional co-packing facilities in the United
            States or Canada with adequate capacity for the production of our various products to
            minimize the risk of any disruption in production.

            
             

            
            On April 28, 2006, HBC entered into a distribution agreement with
            Cadbury Bebidas, S.A. de C.V. (“Cadbury Bebidas”), for exclusive
            distribution by Cadbury Bebidas throughout Mexico, excluding Baja California, of our
            Monster Energy® and Lost® EnergyTM energy products.

            
             

            
            On May 8, 2006, HBC entered into the Monster Beverages Off-Premise
            Distribution Coordination Agreement and the Allied Products Distribution Coordination
            Agreement (jointly, the “Off-Premise Agreements”) with Anheuser-Busch,
            Inc., a Missouri corporation (“AB”). Under the Off-Premise Agreements,
            select Anheuser-Busch distributors (the “AB Distributors”) distribute and
            sell, in markets designated by HBC, HBC’s Monster Energy® and Lost®
            EnergyTM brands non-alcoholic energy drinks, Rumba™ brand energy juice
            and Unbound Energy® brand energy drinks, as well as additional products that may be
            agreed between the parties. We intend to continue building our national distributor
            network primarily with select AB distributors as well as with our sales force
            throughout 2008 to support and grow the sales of our products.

            
             

            
            Pursuant to the Anheuser-Busch Distribution Agreements (the “AB
            Distribution Agreements”) entered into with newly appointed AB Distributors,
            non-refundable amounts received totaling $21.0 million and $20.9 million were recorded
            by us related to such appointed AB Distributors for the costs of terminating our prior
            distributors for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
            Such

             

            
            11

             

             
            

            
            amounts have been accounted for as deferred revenue in the accompanying
            consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and are
            recognized as revenue ratably over the anticipated 20 year life of the respective AB
            Distribution Agreements. Revenue recognized was $1.9 million and $0.4 million for the
            years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Related distributor receivables
            of $5.4 million and $4.5 million are included in accounts receivable net, in the
            accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
            respectively.

            
             

            
            As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, amounts totaling $0.1 million and $3.3
            million, respectively, were received by us from certain other AB Distributors in
            anticipation of executing AB Distribution Agreements with us. Such receipts have been
            accounted for as customer deposit liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance
            sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.

            
             

            
            We incurred termination costs amounting to $15.3 million and $12.7
            million in aggregate for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, to
            certain of our prior distributors. Such termination costs have been expensed in full
            and are included in operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
            Accrued distributor terminations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of
            December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $4.3 million and $7.0 million, respectively.

            
             

            
            On February 8, 2007, HBC entered into the On-Premise Distribution
            Coordination Agreement (the “On-Premise Agreement”) with AB. Under the
            On-Premise Agreement, AB will manage and coordinate the sales, distribution and
            merchandising of Monster Energy® energy drinks to on-premise retailers including
            bars, nightclubs and restaurants in territories approved by HBC.

            
             

            
            On March 1, 2007, HBC entered into a distribution agreement with
            Pepsi-QTG Canada, a division of PepsiCo Canada, ULC (“Pepsi Canada”), for
            the exclusive distribution by Pepsi Canada throughout Canada of our Monster
            Energy®, Lost® EnergyTM and Hansen’s® energy
            products.

            
             

            
            Distribution levels vary from state to state and from product to
            product. Certain of our products are sold in Canada and Mexico. We also sell a limited
            range of our products to distributors outside of the United States, including in the
            Caribbean, Central and South America, Japan, Korea, Saudi Arabia, Hong Kong, South
            Africa and the United Kingdom.

             

            
            We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering
            into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery distributors
            having established sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Many of our
            bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other
            soda and non-carbonated brands and other beverage products. In many cases, such
            products compete directly with our products.

             

            
            We continue to endeavor to reduce our inventory levels.

             

            
            During 2007, we continued to expand distribution of our natural sodas
            outside of California. We expanded our national sales force to support and grow sales,
            primarily of Monster Energy® drinks, Lost® EnergyTM, Joker Mad
            EnergyTM, Unbound Energy®, AceTM energy drinks, and
            RumbaTM energy juice and we intend to continue to build such sales force in
            2008.

             

            
            Our Blue Sky® products are sold primarily to the health food trade,
            natural food chains and mainstream grocery store chains, through specialty health food
            distributors.

             

            
            During 2004, we entered into exclusive contracts with the State of
            California Department of Health Services, Women, Infant and Children
            (“WIC”) Supplemental Nutrition Branch (“DHS”), (the “WIC
            Contracts”) to supply 100% apple juice and 100% blended juice in 64-ounce PET
            plastic bottles. The WIC Contracts commenced on July 12, 2004 and were due to expire in
            July 2007. The parties mutually agreed to extend the WIC Contracts until July 11, 2008.
            WIC-approved items are stocked by the grocery trade and by WIC-only stores. Products
            are purchased by WIC consumers with vouchers

             

            
            12

             

             
            

            
            given by the DHS to qualified participants. Due to significant cost
            increases mainly for apple juice concentrate and PET plastic bottles, we are currently
            negotiating a mutually acceptable early termination of the WIC Contracts with the State
            of California. We have been informed that future WIC contracts will not be granted on
            an exclusive basis and that certain manufacturers (including HBC) will be eligible to
            sell certain qualifying products to WIC participants. The Company is informed and
            believes that the WIC program intends reducing the total quantity of fruit juice
            products that will be available to WIC participants. We anticipate that as a
            consequence of the above, our revenue from these products is likely to be lower in the
            future. However, we do not believe that such reduction in revenue will have a material
            impact on our future operations.

            
            In September 2007, we relocated our corporate offices to newly leased
            offices in Corona, California. In October 2006, we also entered into a lease agreement
            pursuant to which we leased 346,495 square feet of warehouse and distribution space
            located in Corona, California. This lease commitment provides for minimum rental
            payments for 120 months commencing March 2007, excluding renewal options. The monthly
            rental payments are $167,586 at the commencement of the lease and increase over the
            lease term by 7.5% at the end of each 30 month period. The new warehouse and
            distribution space replaced our previous warehouse and distribution space located in
            Corona, California.

            
            In October 2006, we entered into an agreement to acquire 1.8 acres of
            vacant land for a purchase price of $1.4 million. The property is located adjacent to
            the new leased warehouse and distribution space. We are reviewing the feasibility of
            constructing a new office building on such land, which will replace our existing office
            space.

            
             

            
            We have sublet in excess of 50% of our previous office, warehouse and
            distribution space for the remainder of that lease term, which expires in October 2010.
            (See “Part I, Item 2 – Properties”).

            
             

            
            Raw Materials and Suppliers

             

            
            The principal raw materials used by us are aluminum cans, glass bottles
            and PET plastic bottles as well as juices, sucrose, cane sugar, sucralose, milk and
            cream, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. Due to the consolidations that
            have taken place in the glass industry over the past few years, the prices of glass
            bottles continue to increase. The prices of PET plastic bottles and certain aluminum
            cans increased significantly in 2006 and again in 2007. The prices of glucose, high
            fructose corn syrup, milk, cream, and certain juice concentrates, particularly apple,
            increased significantly in 2007. These increased costs, together with increased costs
            primarily of energy, gas and freight, resulted in increases in certain product costs
            which are ongoing and are expected to continue to exert pressure on our gross margins
            in 2008. We are uncertain whether the prices of these or any other raw materials or
            ingredients will continue to rise in the future.

             

            
            Generally, raw materials utilized by us in our business are readily
            available from numerous sources. However, certain raw materials are manufactured by
            only one company. Sucralose, which is used alone or in combination with Acesulfame-K in
            our low-calorie products, is purchased by us from a single manufacturer. Certain of our
            cans are only manufactured by a single company in the United States.

             

            
            With regard to our Java MonsterTM coffee drinks, the dairy
            industry is subject to shortages and higher demand from time to time which may result
            in higher prices.

             

            
            With regard to fruit juice and juice-drink products, the industry is
            subject to variability of weather conditions, which may result in higher prices and/or
            lower consumer demand for juices.

             

            
            We purchase beverage flavors, concentrates, juices, supplements, cane
            sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as well as other ingredients from
            independent suppliers located in the United States and abroad.

             

            
            13

             

             
            

            
            Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their
            flavors. Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our
            flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to
            obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. We
            have identified alternative suppliers of many of the supplements contained in many of
            our beverages. However, industry-wide shortages of certain fruits and fruit juices, and
            supplements and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the future, be
            experienced, which could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our
            products.

             

            
            We continually endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for certain
            of our flavors and concentrates from other suppliers as well as to conclude
            arrangements with suppliers which would enable us to obtain access to certain
            concentrates or flavor formulas in certain circumstances. We have been partially
            successful in these endeavors. Additionally, in a limited number of cases, contractual
            restrictions and/or the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals and licenses may limit
            our ability to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers and manufacturers
            and/or distributors.

             

            
            In connection with the development of new products and flavors,
            independent suppliers bear a large portion of the expense of product development,
            thereby enabling us to develop new products and flavors at relatively low cost. We have
            historically developed and successfully introduced new products and flavors and
            packaging for our products and intend to continue developing and introducing additional
            new beverages and flavors.

             

            
            Competition

             

            
            The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of
            competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and
            marketing campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a
            relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which have substantially greater
            financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.

             

            
            Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include
            taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective
            development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging,
            branded product advertising and pricing. We also compete for distributors who will
            concentrate on selling our products ahead of those of our competitors, provide stable
            and reliable distribution and secure adequate shelf space in retail outlets.
            Competitive pressures in the alternative, energy, coffee and functional beverage
            categories could cause our products to be unable to gain or to lose market share or we
            could experience price erosion, which could have a material adverse affect on our
            business and results.

             

            
            We have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the
            energy drink category. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas and
            juice cocktails in larger volume packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass bottles,
            including Sobe, Snapple Elements, Arizona and Fuse, have added supplements to their
            products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or
            “energy” beverages or as having functional benefits. We believe that many
            of those products contain lower levels of supplements and principally deliver
            refreshment. In addition, many competitive products are positioned differently than our
            energy or functional drinks. Our smoothies and tea lines are positioned more closely
            against those products.

             

            
            We compete not only for consumer acceptance, but also for maximum
            marketing efforts by multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors, many of
            which have a principal affiliation with competing companies and brands. Our products
            compete with all liquid refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially
            better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and
            internationally known producers such as The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo, Inc., Cadbury
            Schweppes plc, Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods, Inc., Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and
            Ocean Spray. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local in
            operation. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by
            grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.

             

            
            14

             

             
            

             

            
            Our natural sodas compete directly with traditional soda products
            including those marketed by The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo, Inc. and Cadbury Schweppes
            plc, as well as with carbonated beverages marketed by smaller or primarily local
            companies such as Jones Soda Co., Clearly Canadian Beverage Company, Crystal Geyser,
            J.M. Smucker Company and with private label brands such as those carried by grocery
            store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.

             

            
            Our fruit juice smoothies compete directly with Kern’s, Jumex,
            Jugos del Valle and Libby’s nectars, V8 Smoothies, as well as with single serve
            juice products produced by many competitors. Such competitive products are packaged in
            glass and PET bottles ranging from 8- to 48-ounces in size and in 11.5-ounce aluminum
            cans. The juice content of such competitive products ranges from 1% to 100%.

             

            
            Our apple and other juice products compete directly with Tree Top,
            Mott’s, Martinelli’s, Welch’s, Ocean Spray, Tropicana, Minute Maid,
            Langers, Apple and Eve, Seneca, Northland and also with other brands of apple juice and
            juice blends, especially store brands.

             

            
            Our energy drinks, including Hansen’s® energy, Diet Red,
            Monster Energy®, Lost® Energy™, Joker Mad Energy™, Ace™
            Energy, Unbound Energy® and Rumba™ energy juice in 8.3-, 16-, 24- and
            32-ounce cans, compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp,
            Adrenaline Rush, 180, Extreme Energy Shot, Red Devil, Rip It, NOS, Boo Koo,
            Vitaminenergy, and many other brands. The Coca-Cola Company and PepsiCo Inc. also
            market and/or distribute additional products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max,
            Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and Vault.

            
             

            
            Our Java Monster™ line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee drinks
            compete directly with Starbucks Frappuccino and other coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted,
            Caribou Coffee, Cinnabon coffee drinks and Godiva dairy based drinks.

             

            
            Sales and Marketing

             

            
            Our sales and marketing strategy is to focus our efforts on developing
            brand awareness and trial through sampling both in stores and at events in respect of
            all our beverages and drink mixes. We use our branded vehicles and other promotional
            vehicles at events at which we distribute our products to consumers for sampling. We
            utilize “push-pull” methods to achieve maximum shelf and display space
            exposure in sales outlets and maximum demand from consumers for our products including
            advertising, in store promotions and in store placement of point of sale materials and
            racks, prize promotions, price promotions, competitions, endorsements from selected
            public and extreme sports figures, coupons, sampling and sponsorship of selected causes
            such as cancer research and SPCA’s as well as of extreme sports teams such as the
            Pro Circuit – Kawasaki Motocross and Supercross teams, Kawasaki Factory Motocross
            and Supercross teams, Robby Gordon Racing Team, Kawasaki Factory International Moto GP
            Team, Kenny Bernstein Drag Racing Team, extreme sports figures and athletes, sporting
            events such as the Monster Energy® Supercross Series, Monster Energy® Pipeline
            Pro Surfing competition, Winter and Summer X-games, marathons, 10k runs, bicycle races,
            volleyball tournaments and other health and sports related activities, including
            extreme sports, particularly supercross, motocross, freestyle, surfing, skateboarding,
            wakeboarding, skiing, snowboarding, BMX, mountain biking, snowmobile racing, and also
            participate in product demonstrations, food tasting and other related events. In store
            posters, outdoor posters, print, radio and television advertising together with price
            promotions and coupons, may also be used to promote our brands.

             

            
            Additionally, in 2003 we entered into a multi-year sponsorship agreement
            to advertise on the new Las Vegas Monorail (“Monorail Agreement”) with the
            Las Vegas Monorail Company (“LVMC”) which includes the right to vend our
            Monster Energy® drinks and natural sodas on all stations. The
            initial term of the Monorail Agreement commenced on January 1, 2005 and has been
            renewed annually thereafter, with renewals at a lower annual rate. We have renewed the
            agreement for 2008.

             

            
            15

             

             
            

            
            We believe that one of the keys to success in the beverage industry is
            differentiation such as making our products visually distinctive from other beverages
            on the shelves of retailers. We review our products and packaging on an ongoing basis
            and, where practical, endeavor to make them different, better and unique. The labels
            and graphics for many of our products are redesigned from time to time to maximize
            their visibility and identification, wherever they may be placed in stores and we will
            continue to reevaluate the same from time to time.

             

            
            Where appropriate we partner with retailers to assist our marketing
            efforts. For example, while we retain responsibility for the marketing of the Juice
            Slam® line of children's multi-vitamin juice drinks, Costco has undertaken partial
            responsibility for the marketing of the Juice Blast® line.

             

            
            We increased expenditures for our sales and marketing programs by
            approximately 48% in 2007 compared to 2006. As of December 31, 2007, we employed 713
            employees in sales and marketing activities, of which 269 were employed on a full-time
            basis.

             

            
            Customers

             

            
            Our customers are typically retail grocery and specialty chains,
            wholesalers, club stores, drug chains, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, full
            service beverage distributors, health food distributors and food service customers.
            Gross sales to our various customer types for the years ended December 2007, 2006 and
            2005 are reflected below. The allocations below reflect changes made by us to the
            categories historically reported.

            
             

            
                
                    
                        
                            
                             
                        

                        
                            
                            2007
                        

                        
                            
                            2006
                        

                        
                            
                            2005
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                            Retail Grocery, specialty chains and
                            wholesalers
                        

                        
                            
                            8%
                        

                        
                            
                            12%
                        

                        
                            
                            19%
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                            Club stores, drug chains & mass
                            merchandisers
                        

                        
                            
                            14%
                        

                        
                            
                            14%
                        

                        
                            
                            11%
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                            Full service distributors
                        

                        
                            
                            73%
                        

                        
                            
                            69%
                        

                        
                            
                            65%
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                            Health food distributors
                        

                        
                            
                            2%
                        

                        
                            
                            2%
                        

                        
                            
                            3%
                        
                    

                    
                        
                            
                            Other
                        

                        
                            
                            3%
                        

                        
                            
                            3%
                        

                        
                            
                            2%
                        
                    
                
            

             

            
            Our customers include Cadbury Schweppes Bottling Group (formally known
            as Dr. Pepper Bottling/7UP Bottling Group), Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s
            Club), AB, Kalil Bottling Group, Trader Joe’s, John Lenore & Company, Pepsi
            Canada, Swire Coca-Cola, USA, Costco, The Kroger Co., Safeway Inc. and Albertsons. A
            decision by any large customer to decrease amounts purchased from us or to cease
            carrying our products could have a material negative effect on our financial condition
            and consolidated results of operations. Cadbury Schweppes Bottling Group, a customer of
            the DSD division, accounted for approximately 16%, 19% and 18% of our net sales for the
            years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Wal-Mart, Inc. (including
            Sam’s Club), a customer of both the DSD and Warehouse divisions, accounted for
            approximately 12% of our net sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2007 and
            2006, respectively.

            
             

            
            Seasonality

             

            
            Sales of ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat seasonal, with the second
            and third calendar quarters accounting for the highest sales volumes. The volume of
            sales in the beverage business may be affected by weather conditions. Sales of our
            beverage products may become increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations as more
            sales occur outside of California with respect to our products. However, the energy
            drink category appears to be less seasonal than traditional beverages. As the
            percentage of our sales that are represented by such products continues to increase,
            seasonal fluctuations will be further mitigated. Quarterly fluctuations may also be
            affected by other factors, including the introduction of new products, the opening of
            new markets where temperature fluctuations are more pronounced, the addition of new
            bottlers and distributors, changes in the mix of sales of our finished products and
            changes in and/or increased advertising, marketing and promotional expenses.

             

             

            
            16

             

             
            

            
            Intellectual Property

             

            
            We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business.
            Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or
            their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become
            generic. Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed as long as the trademarks
            are in use. We also own the copyright in and to numerous statements made and content
            appearing on the packaging of our products.

             

            
            We own the Hansen’s®, Monster Energy®, M (stylized)®
            and the M Monster Energy® trademarks. These trademarks are crucial to our business
            and are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in various countries
            throughout the world. We own a number of other trademark registrations including, but
            not limited to, A New Kind a Buzz®, Unleash the Beast!®, Hansen’s
            Energy®, Blue Energy®, Energade®, Hansen’s E2O Energy
            Water®, Hansen’s Slim Down®, Power Formula®, The Real Deal®,
            Liquidfruit®, California’s Natural Choice®, Medicine Man®,
            Hansen’s Power®, B•Well®, Anti-ox®,
            D-stress®, Stamina®, Immunejuice®, Hansen’s Natural Multi-Vitamin
            Juice Slam®, Juice Blast®, Red Rocker®, and Hansen’s Natural
            Soda® in the United States and, the Monster®, Monster Energy®,
            M(stylized)®, Hansen’s® and Smoothie® trademarks in a number of
            countries around the world.

             

            
            We have applied to register a number of trademarks in the United States
            and elsewhere including, but not limited to, Monster™, Monster Energy™,
            M(stylized)™, Assault™, Khaos™, Monster M-80™, Predator™,
            M Monster Mutant™, Joker Mad Energy™, Ace™, Rumba™,
            Fizzit™ and Fizz Bomb™, Java Monster™, Mean Bean™, Java Monster
            Big Black™, Loca Moca™, Chai Hai™, Irish Blend™, Java Monster
            Russian™, Nut-Up™, Lo-Ball™, The Juice is Loose™, Monster
            MIXXD™, Monster Heavy Metal™ and Energy Pro™.

             

            
            In September 2000, in connection with the acquisition of the Blue Sky
            Natural Beverage business, we acquired the Blue Sky® trademark which is registered
            in the United States and Canada, through our wholly owned subsidiary Blue
            Sky.

             

            
            In May 2001, in connection with the acquisition of the Junior Juice
            beverage business, we acquired the Junior Juice® trademark, which is registered in
            the United States, through our wholly owned subsidiary Junior Juice.

            
             

            
            In October 2006, we acquired the Unbound Energy® trademark which is
            registered in the United States.

             

            
            Government Regulation

             

            
            The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of
            our products is subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary
            Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act;
            various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local statutes and
            regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising,
            labeling and ingredients of such products. California law requires that a specific
            warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of
            California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. The law exposes all
            food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their
            products because the law recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds
            below which a warning is not required. Consequently, even trace amounts of listed
            components can expose affected products to the prospect of warning labels. Products
            containing listed substances that occur naturally in the product or that are
            contributed to the product solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from
            the warning requirement. While none of our beverage products are required to display
            warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether an important component of any of our
            products might be added to the California list in the future. We also are unable to
            predict whether, or to what extent, a warning under this law would have an impact on
            costs or sales of our products.

             

            
            17

             

             
            

            
            Measures have been enacted in various localities and states that require
            that a deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers. The precise
            requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other deposit, recycling or product
            stewardship proposals have been introduced in certain states and localities and in
            Congress, and we anticipate that similar legislation or regulations may be proposed in
            the future at the local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and
            elsewhere.

             

            
            Our facilities in the United States are subject to federal, state and
            local environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with these provisions has not had,
            and we do not expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect upon our
            capital expenditures, net income or competitive position.

             

            
            Employees

             

            
            As of December 31, 2007, we employed a total of 904 employees of which
            448 were employed on a full-time basis. Of our 904 employees, we employ 191 in
            administrative and operational capacities and 713 persons in sales and marketing
            capacities. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider relations with
            our employees to be good.

             

            
            Compliance with Environmental Laws

             

            
            In California, we are required to collect redemption values from our
            customers and to remit such redemption values to the State of California Department of
            Conservation based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and
            non-carbonated products sold. In certain other states and Canada
            where Hansen’s® products are sold, we are also required to collect deposits
            from our customers and to remit such deposits to the respective state agencies based
            upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products
            sold in such states.

             

            
            Available Information

             

            
            Our Internet address is www.hansens.com. Information contained on our
            website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our annual report on Form 10-K
            and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q will be made available free of charge on
            www.hansens.com, as soon as reasonably
            practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the
            Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). In addition, you may
            request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing or
            telephoning us at the following address or telephone number:

             

            
            Hansen Natural Corporation

            550
            Monica Circle, Suite 201

            
            Corona, CA 92880

            (951)
            739-6200

            (800)
            HANSENS

            (800)
            426-7367

             

            
            18
            

            
            

             

            
                 
            

            
            

            
                
                    
                        
                        ITEM 1A.
                    

                    
                        
                        RISK FACTORS
                    
                
            
            
            

            
            In addition to the other information in this report, you should
            carefully consider the following risks. If any of the following risks actually occur,
            our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be materially
            adversely affected. The risk factors summarized below are not the only risks we face.
            Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem
            to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition
            and/or operating results.

             

            
            Increased competition could hurt our business.

             

            
            The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of
            competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and
            marketing campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a
            relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which have substantially greater
            financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.

             

            
            Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include
            taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective
            development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging,
            branded product advertising and pricing. Our products compete with all liquid
            refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially better financed
            competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known
            producers such as The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo Inc., Cadbury Schweppes plc, Red Bull
            Gmbh, Kraft Foods Inc., Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and Ocean Spray. We also
            compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local in operation. Our products
            also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains,
            convenience store chains, and club stores. Our Java Monster™ line of
            non-carbonated dairy based coffee drinks competes directly with Starbucks Frappuccino
            and other coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Caribou Coffee, Cinnabon coffee drinks and
            Godiva dairy based drinks.

            
             

            
            There can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in
            maintaining our current revenues or market share or position due to competition in the
            beverage industry. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and
            results of operations could be adversely affected.

            
             

            
            We derive a substantial portion of revenues from our energy drinks
            and competitive pressure in the “energy drink” category could adversely
            affect our operating results.

             

            
            A substantial portion of our sales are derived from our energy drinks,
            including in particular our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. Our DSD segment
            which comprises primarily energy drinks, represented 89.5% of net sales for the year
            ended December 31, 2007. Any decrease in the sales of our Monster Energy® brand
            energy drinks could significantly adversely affect our future revenues and net income.
            Historically, we have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the
            energy drink category. Our energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full
            Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, 180, Extreme Energy Shot, Red Devil, Rip It,
            Nos, Boo Koo, Vitaminenergy and many other brands. A number of companies who market and
            distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in different packages, such as 16- and
            20-ounce glass bottles, including Sobe, Snapple Elements, Arizona, Fuse, and Vitamin
            Water, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their products
            as “functional” or “energy” beverages or as having functional
            benefits. In addition, certain large companies such as The Coca-Cola Company and
            PepsiCo Inc. market and/or distribute products in that market segment such as Pepsi
            Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and Vault. Competitive pressures in the energy
            drink category could impact our revenues or we could experience price erosion or lower
            market share, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business and
            results.

             

            
            Change in consumer preferences may reduce demand for some of our
            products.

             

            
            There is increasing awareness and concern for the health consequences of
            obesity. This may reduce demand for our non-diet beverages, which could affect our
            profitability.

             

            
            19

             

             
            

             

            
            Consumers are seeking greater variety in their beverages. Our future
            success will depend, in part, upon our continued ability to develop and introduce
            different and innovative beverages. In order to retain and expand our market share, we
            must continue to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages and be
            competitive in the areas of quality and health, although there can be no assurance of
            our ability to do so. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to purchase
            our products in the future. Additionally, many of our products are considered premium
            products and to maintain market share during recessionary periods we may have to reduce
            profit margins which would adversely affect our results of operations. Product
            lifecycles for some beverage brands and/or products and/or packages may be limited to a
            few years before consumers' preferences change. The beverages we currently market are
            in varying stages of their lifecycles and there can be no assurance that such beverages
            will become or remain profitable for us. The beverage industry is subject to changing
            consumer preferences and shifts in consumer preferences may adversely affect us if we
            misjudge such preferences. We may be unable to achieve volume growth through product
            and packaging initiatives. We also may be unable to penetrate new markets. If our
            revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be
            adversely affected.

             

            
            We rely on bottlers and other contract packers to manufacture our
            products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our bottlers and
            contract packers and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes constrained
            or unavailable to us, our business could suffer.

             

            
            We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource such
            manufacturing to bottlers and other contract packers. Although our production
            arrangements are generally of short duration or are terminable upon request, in the
            event of a disruption or delay, we may be unable to procure alternative packing
            facilities at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time
            period. In addition, there are limited packing facilities in the United States with
            adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for many of our products, including
            Hansen’s® brand energy drinks in 8.3-ounce cans, our PET tea line,
            Hansens® Sparkling beverages in 10.5-ounce sleek cans, aseptic juice products,
            juices in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles, Monster Energy®, Lost® Energy™,
            Ace™, Unbound Energy®, RumbaTM and Joker Mad EnergyTM
            energy drinks in 8.3-ounce, 16-ounce, 24-ounce and 32-ounce cans, our Java
            MonsterTM line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee drinks in 15-ounce cans
            and other products. A disruption or delay in production of any of such products could
            significantly affect our revenues from such products as alternative co-packing
            facilities in the United States with adequate capacity may not be available for such
            products either at commercially reasonable rates, and/or within a reasonably short time
            period, if at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products could
            adversely affect our revenues.

             

            
            We rely on bottlers and distributors to distribute our DSD products.
            If we are unable to secure such bottlers and distributors and/or we are unable to
            maintain good relationships with our existing bottlers and distributors, our business
            could suffer.

             

            
            We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering
            into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery distributors
            having established sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Many of our
            bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other
            soda and non-carbonated brands and other beverage products (both alcoholic and
            non-alcoholic), including energy drinks. In many cases, such products compete directly
            with our products.

             

            
            The marketing efforts of our distributors are important for our success.
            If our DSD brands prove to be less attractive to our existing bottlers and distributors
            and/or if we fail to attract additional bottlers and distributors, and/or our bottlers
            and/or distributors do not market and promote our products above the products of our
            competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be
            adversely affected.

             

            
            20

             

             
            

            
            Our customers are material to our success. If we are unable to
            maintain good relationships with our existing customers, our business could
            suffer.

            
             

            
            Unilateral decisions could be taken by our distributors, and/or
            convenience chains, grocery chains, specialty chain stores, club stores and other
            customers to discontinue carrying all or any of the our products that they are carrying
            at any time, which could cause our business to suffer.

             

            
            Two customers accounted for approximately 16% and 12%, and 19% and 12%
            of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. One
            customer accounted for approximately 18% of our net sales for the year ended December
            31, 2005. A decision by either customer, or any other large customer, to decrease the
            amount purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material
            adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of
            operations.

             

            
            Increases in cost or shortages of raw materials or increases in costs
            of co-packing could harm our business.

             

            
            The principal raw materials used by us comprise aluminum cans, glass
            bottles and PET plastic bottles as well as juices, sucrose, cane sugar, sucralose, milk
            and cream, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. Due to the consolidations
            that have taken place in the glass industry over the past few years, the prices of
            glass bottles continue to increase. The prices of PET plastic bottles and certain
            aluminum cans increased in 2007. The prices of glucose, high fructose corn syrup, milk,
            cream and certain juice concentrates, including apple, increased significantly in 2007.
            These increased costs, together with increased costs primarily of energy and gas and
            freight resulted in increases in certain product costs, which are ongoing and are
            expected to continue to exert pressure on our gross margins in 2008. In addition,
            certain of our co-pack arrangements allow such co-packers to increase their charges
            based on certain of their own cost increases. We are uncertain whether the prices of
            any of the above or any other raw materials or ingredients will continue to rise in the
            future and whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our
            customers.

             

            
            In addition, some of these raw materials, such as a sucralose and
            certain sizes of cans, are available from a limited number of suppliers. Sucralose,
            which is used in many of our products including our low-calorie products, is purchased
            by us from a single manufacturer. While we believe that our 2008 sucralose volume
            allocation will be sufficient to meet the demand for our products that contain
            sucralose, we may need to reformulate certain of those products that contain sucralose
            with alternative sweetener systems to avoid an interruption in supply of those
            products, should the need arise.

            
             

            
            Due to significant cost increases mainly for apple juice concentrate and
            PET plastic bottles, we are currently negotiating a mutually acceptable early
            termination of the WIC Contracts with the State of California. We have been informed
            that future contracts will not be granted on an exclusive basis and that certain
            manufacturers (including HBC) will be eligible to sell certain qualifying products to
            WIC participants. The Company is informed and believes that the WIC program intends
            reducing the total quantity of fruit juice products that will be available to WIC
            participants. We anticipate that as a consequence of the above, our revenue from these
            products is likely to be lower in the future.

            
             

            
            Our failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could
            adversely affect our business and financial results.

             

            
            We may not correctly estimate demand for our products. Our ability to
            estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may
            be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we
            materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient
            ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to, PET plastic bottles, cans,
            glass, labels, sucralose, flavors, supplements, certain sweeteners, or packing
            arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. Moreover,
            industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates, supplements and sweeteners have
            been and could, from time to time in the future, be

             

            
            21

             

             
            

            
            experienced, which could interfere with and/or delay production of
            certain of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and
            financial results. We do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to
            manage this risk.

             

            
            The costs of packaging supplies are subject to price increases from
            time to time and we may be unable to pass all or some of such increased costs on to our
            customers.

             

            
            Many of our packaging supplies contracts allow our suppliers to alter
            the costs they charge us for packaging supplies based on changes in the costs of the
            underlying commodities that are used to produce those packaging supplies, such as resin
            for PET bottles, aluminum for cans, pulp for cartons and/or trays. These changes in the
            prices we pay for our packaging supplies occur at certain predetermined times that vary
            by product and supplier. Accordingly, we bear the risk of increases in the costs of
            these packaging supplies, including the underlying costs of the commodities that
            comprise these packaging supplies. We do not use derivative instruments to manage this
            risk. If the costs of these packaging supplies increase, we may be unable to pass these
            costs along to our customers through corresponding adjustments to the prices we charge,
            which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

             

            
            We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key flavor suppliers.
            If we are unable to source our flavors on acceptable terms from our key suppliers, we
            could suffer disruptions in our business.

             

            
            Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their
            flavors. Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our
            flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to
            obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice.
            Industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates, supplements and sweeteners have
            been and could, from time to time in the future, be experienced, which could interfere
            with and/or delay production of certain of our products. If we have to replace a flavor
            supplier, we could experience temporary disruptions in our ability to deliver products
            to our customers which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
            operations.

             

            
            Our intellectual property rights are critical to our success, the
            loss of such rights could materially adversely affect our business.

             

            
            We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business. We
            also own the copyright in and to portion of the content on the packaging of our
            products. We regard our trademarks, copyrights, and similar intellectual property as
            critical to our success and attempt to protect such property with registered and common
            law trademarks and copyrights, restrictions on disclosure and other actions to prevent
            infringement. Product packages, mechanical designs and artwork are important to our
            success and we take action to protect against imitation of our packaging and trade
            dress and to protect our trademarks and copyrights as necessary. However, there can be
            no assurance that other third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our
            trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we lose some or all of our intellectual
            property rights, our business may be materially adversely affected.

             

            
            Significant changes in government regulation may hinder
            sales.

             

            
            The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of
            our products is subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary
            Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act;
            various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local statutes and
            regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising,
            labeling and ingredients of such products. New statutes and regulations may also be
            instituted in the future. If a regulatory authority finds that a current or future
            product or production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be
            fined, or such products may have to be recalled and/or reformulated and/or packaging
            changed, thus adversely affecting our financial condition and operations. California
            law requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component
            listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth
            defects. While none of our beverage products are required to display warnings under
            this law, we cannot predict whether

             

            
            22

             

             
            

            an
            important component of any of our products might be added to the California list in the
            future. We also are unable to predict whether or to what extent a warning under this
            law would have an impact on costs or sales of our products.

             

            
            If we are unable to maintain brand image or product quality, or if we
            encounter product recalls, our business may suffer.

             

            
            Our success depends on our ability to maintain and build brand image for
            our existing products, new products and brand extensions. We have no assurance that our
            advertising, marketing and promotional programs will have the desired impact on our
            products' brand image and on consumer preferences. Product quality issues, real or
            imagined, or allegations of product contamination, even if fake or unfounded, could
            tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other
            products. We may be required from time to time to recall products entirely or from
            specific co-packers, markets or batches. Product recalls could adversely affect our
            profitability and our brand image. We do not maintain recall insurance.

             

            
            While we have to date not experienced any credible product liability
            litigation, there is no assurance that we will not experience such litigation in the
            future. In the event we were to experience product liability claims or a product
            recall, our financial condition and business operations could be materially adversely
            effected.

            
             

            
            If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels or if we are unable
            to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, or if our retailer's
            inventory levels are too high, our operating results will be adversely
            affected.

             

            
            If we do not accurately anticipate the future demand for a particular
            product or the time it will take to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels will not
            be appropriate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to
            meet our shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or
            retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or
            lost. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis, we need to
            maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If the inventory of our
            products held by our distributors and/or retailers is too high, they will not place
            orders for additional products, which would unfavorably impact our future sales and
            adversely affect our operating results.

             

            
            If we are not able to retain the full-time services of senior
            management there may be an adverse effect on our operations and/or our operating
            performance until we find suitable replacements.

             

            
            Our business is dependent, to a large extent, upon the services of our
            senior management. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any members of our
            senior management. We currently have employment agreements with Mr. Sacks, Chairman and
            Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Schlosberg, President and Chief Financial Officer,
            which end on December 31, 2008. The loss of services of either of these persons or any
            other key members of our senior management could adversely affect our business until
            suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of personnel with the
            requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ
            such qualified personnel on acceptable terms.

             

            
            Weather could adversely affect our supply chain and demand for our
            products.

             

            
            With regard to fruit juice, fruit juice concentrates and natural
            flavors, the beverage industry is subject to variability of weather conditions, which
            may result in higher prices and/or the nonavailability of any of such items. Sales of
            our products may also be influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets
            in which we operate, particularly in areas outside of California. Weather conditions
            may influence consumer demand for certain of our beverages, which could have an adverse
            effect on our results of operations.

             

            
            23

             

             
            

             

            
            Potential changes in accounting practices and/or taxation may
            adversely affect our financial results.

             

            
            We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards
            or practices may have on our financial results. New accounting standards could be
            issued that could change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities.
            These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported earnings.
            Increases in direct and indirect income tax rates could affect after tax income.
            Equally, increases in indirect taxes (including environmental taxes pertaining to the
            disposal of beverage containers) could affect our products' affordability and reduce
            our sales.

             

            
            Volatility of stock price may restrict sale
            opportunities.

             

            
            Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including
            stockholder expectations, financial results, the introduction of new products by us and
            our competitors, general economic and market conditions, estimates and projections by
            the investment community and public comments by other persons and many other factors,
            many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to achieve analysts’
            earnings forecasts, which may be based on projected volumes and sales of many product
            types and/or new products, certain of which are more profitable than others. There can
            be no assurance that the Company will achieve projected levels or mixes of product
            sales. As a result, our stock price is subject to significant volatility and
            stockholders may not be able to sell our stock at attractive prices. During our fiscal
            year ended December 31, 2007, our stock price high was $68.40 and stock price low was
            $32.50.

            
             

            
            Provisions in our organizational documents and control by insiders
            may prevent changes in control even if such changes would be beneficial to other
            stockholders.

             

            
            Our organizational documents may limit changes in control. Furthermore,
            on February 7, 2008, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg together may be deemed to control a
            maximum of 20.9% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Mr. Sacks and Mr.
            Schlosberg could exercise significant control on matters submitted to a vote of our
            stockholders, including electing directors, amending organizational documents and
            disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt, even though such
            actions may be favorable to the other common stockholders.

             

            
            Our cash flow may not be sufficient to fund our long term
            goals.

             

            
            We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to support our capital
            expenditure plans and general operating activities. In addition, the terms and/or
            availability of our credit facility and/or the activities of our creditors could affect
            the financing of our future growth.

            
             

            Our
            investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and
            affect the liquidity of these investments.

             

            
            At December 31, 2007, we had $12.4 million in cash and cash
            equivalents and $290.2 million in short- and long-term investments. We have
            historically invested these amounts in U.S. government agencies, municipal securities
            (which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper
            and money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are
            subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be
            exacerbated by U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of
            the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. These market risks
            associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our
            future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.

            
             

            
            Our long-term investments are comprised of municipal or educational
            related or other public body notes with an auction reset feature (“auction rate
            securities”). These notes carry a AAA credit rating and certain of the notes are
            additionally backed by various federal agencies and/or monoline insurance companies.
            Liquidity for these auction rate securities is typically provided by an auction process
            which

             

            
            24

             

             
            

            
            allows holders to sell their notes and resets the applicable interest
            rate at pre-determined intervals, usually every 7 to 35 days. In February 2008, a
            large portion of the auctions for these auction rate securities failed. There is no
            assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment
            portfolio will succeed. The auction failures appear to have been attributable to
            inadequate buyers and/or buying demand. In the event that there is a failed auction,
            the indenture governing the security generally requires the issuer to pay interest at a
            default rate that is above market rates for similar instruments. The securities for
            which auctions have failed will continue to accrue interest at the predetermined
            default rates and be auctioned every 7 to 35 days until the auction succeeds, the
            issuer calls the securities, they mature or we are able to sell the securities to third
            parties. As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of
            our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited. Consequently, these
            securities have been classified as long-term investments in our consolidated financial
            statements. However, we anticipate that due to the higher interest rates now payable on
            certain of these securities and for other reasons, the issuers will take steps to
            refinance their notes to enable them to call and repay the securities and therefore
            avoid the higher interest rates now payable on such securities.

            
             

            
            If the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to refinance
            their debts and call the notes or successfully close future auctions and their credit
            ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on
            these investments. We may be required to wait until market stability is restored for
            these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to
            40 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value. (See “Part II,
            Item 7A. - Qualitative And Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risks” and
            “Part II, Item 8, Note 2 – Short- and Long-Term Investments” in our
            consolidated financial statements).

            
             

            
            If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures
            and internal control over financial reporting on a consolidated basis, our stock price
            and investor confidence in our Company could be materially and adversely
            affected.

             

            
            We are required to maintain both disclosure controls and procedures and
            internal control over financial reporting that are effective for the purposes described
            in Part II, Item 9A. If we fail to do so, our business, results of operations or
            financial condition and the value of our stock could be materially harmed.

            
             

            
            Legal proceedings related to our historical stock option grant
            practices and other issues may significantly harm our business.

             

            
            Several lawsuits have been filed against us and current officers and
            members of the Board of Directors in connection with our prior stock option practices.
            These lawsuits are described more fully in Part I, Item 3. “Legal
            Proceedings” and in Part II, Item 8, Note 9 to our consolidated financial
            statements contained in this Form 10-K. Defending these lawsuits will result in
            significant ongoing expenditures and the continued diversion of our management's time
            and attention from the operation of our business, which could have a negative effect on
            our business operations.

             

            
            Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant
            liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results.

             

            
            We are a party, from time to time, to various litigation claims and
            legal proceedings, which could adversely affect our financial results.

            
            Our business may be negatively impacted by a slowing economy or by
            unfavorable economic conditions or developments in the United States and/or in other
            countries in which we operate.

            
             

            
            A general slowdown in the economy in the United States or unfavorable
            economic conditions or other developments may result in decreased consumer demand,
            business disruption, supply constraints,

             

            
            25

             

             
            

            
            foreign currency devaluation, inflation or deflation. A slowdown in the
            economy or unstable economic conditions in the United States or in the countries in
            which we operate could have an adverse impact on our business results or financial
            condition. Our foreign sales accounted for 4.0%, 2.8% and 1.3% of our gross sales for
            the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

            
             

            
                
                    
                        
                            
                            ITEM 1B