Item 1A – Risk Factors” below.
 
2011 Product Introductions
 
During 2011, we continued to expand our existing product lines and flavors and further develop our distribution markets.  In particular, we continued to focus on developing and marketing beverages that fall within the category generally described as the “alternative” beverage category. During 2011, we introduced a number of new products including the following:
 
·                  Monster Rehab™ Tea + Lemonade + Energy, a non-carbonated rehydration energy drink (February 2011).
 
4






Table of Contents
 
·                  Peace Tea® “Caddy Shack”, a non-carbonated tea + lemonade drink (February 2011).
·                  Monster Rehab™ Rojo Tea + Energy, a non-carbonated rehydration energy drink (October 2011).
·                  Monster Rehab™ Green Tea + Energy, a non-carbonated rehydration energy drink (October 2011).
·                  Monster Rehab™ Protean + Energy, a non-carbonated protein rehydration energy drink (October 2011).
·                  Hubert’s® Half & Half, a line of premium ready-to-drink lemonade + teas (October 2011).
·                  Angeleno™ Aguas Fresca, a line of premium ready-to-drink aguas frescas (December 2011).
 
Products – DSD Segment
 
Monster Energy® Drinks - In 2002, we launched a new carbonated energy drink under the Monster Energy® brand name in 16-ounce cans, which was almost double the size of our original Hansen’s® brand energy drinks (in 8.3-ounce cans) and the vast majority of competitive energy drinks on the market at that time. Our Monster Energy® drinks contain vitamins, minerals, nutrients, herbs and supplements (collectively, “supplements”) and are marketed through our full service distributor network. We offer the following products under the Monster Energy® brand energy drink product line: Monster Energy®, Lo-Carb Monster Energy®, Monster Energy® Assault®, Monster Khaos®, Monster M-80® (named RIPPER® in certain countries), Monster MIXXD®, Monster Energy® Absolutely Zero, Monster Energy® Import and Import Light, Monster Energy® Dub Edition and Monster Energy® M3™ Super Concentrate energy drinks. We package our Monster Energy® drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 12-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 23.5-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml and/or 18.6-ounce aluminum cans and/or 5-ounce glass bottles.
 
Java Monster® Coffee + Energy Drinks - A line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee + energy drinks. We offer the following products under the Java Monster® product line: Java Monster® Kona Blend, Java Monster® Loca Moca®, Java Monster® Mean Bean®, Java Monster® Vanilla Light, Java Monster® Irish Blend® and Java Monster® Toffee. We package our Java Monster® coffee + energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum cans.
 
Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology® Energy Drinks - A line of carbonated energy drinks containing nitrous oxide. We offer the following products under the Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®  product line: Super Dry™, Anti Gravity®, Killer-B® and Black Ice™. We package our Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®  drinks in 12-ounce sleek aluminum cap-cans.
 
X-Presso Monster® Coffee Energy Drinks - A line of non-carbonated dairy based espresso + energy drinks in 6.75-ounce and/or 9.6-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the following products under the X-Presso Monster®  coffee energy drinks product line: X-Presso Monster® Hammer and X-Presso Monster® Midnite.
 
Monster Rehab™ Tea + Energy Drinks - A line of non-carbonated rehydration energy drinks with electrolytes in 15.5-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the following products under the Monster Rehab™ drink line: Monster Rehab™ Tea + Lemonade + Energy, Monster Rehab™ Rojo Tea + Energy, Monster Rehab™ Green Tea + Energy and Monster Rehab™ Protean + Energy.
 
Worx Energy® Energy Shots - A line of energy supplements which contains zero calories and zero sugar in 2-ounce wide-mouth PET plastic bottles. We offer the following products under the Worx Energy® energy shot product line: Original Formula and Extra Strength.
 
5






Table of Contents
 
Peace Tea® Iced Teas - A line of ready-to-drink iced teas in 23-ounce aluminum cans. We offer the following products under the Peace Tea® product line: green tea, diet green tea, imported Ceylon tea, sweet lemon tea, razzleberry tea, unsweetened tea and “Caddy Shack” tea + lemonade (introduced in the first quarter of 2011).
 
Products – Warehouse Segment
 
Hansen’s Natural Soda® Brand Sodas - Hansen’s Natural Soda® brand sodas have been a leading natural soda brand on the West Coast of the United States for more than 30 years. Hansen’s Natural Soda® brand sodas, sweetened with cane sugar, and Hansen’s® Diet Sodas, sweetened with Splenda® no calorie sweetener and Acesulfame-K, contain no preservatives, no sodium, no caffeine and no artificial coloring. We offer the following sodas under the Hansen’s® brand name:  Hansen’s Natural Soda®, Hansen’s® Diet Sodas and Hansen’s® Natural Mixers, as well as Hansen’s® Sparkling Waters, in a variety of flavors. We package our natural sodas and sparkling waters in 12-ounce aluminum cans and our mixers in 8-ounce aluminum cans.
 
Blue Sky® Products - Our Blue Sky® products contain no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, caffeine (other than our Blue Sky® energy drinks) or artificial coloring and are made with sugar and high quality natural flavors. We offer the following products under the Blue Sky® product line: Blue Sky® Natural Soda, Blue Sky® Free Sodas (sweetened with Truvia® brand stevia extract (“Truvia®”), an all natural sweetener), Blue Sky® Premium Sodas, Blue Sky® Organic Natural Sodas, Blue Sky® Seltzer Waters, Blue Sky® Blue Energy® drinks, Blue Sky® Free Blue Energy® drinks and Blue Sky® Café Energy drinks. In October 2011, we introduced Blue Sky® Recover Energy™ drink, a new natural, non-carbonated recovery energy drink with electrolytes, sweetened with Truvia®. We package our Blue Sky® natural sodas and seltzer waters in 12-ounce aluminum cans and/or bag in box. We package our Blue Sky® Café energy drinks in 15-ounce aluminum cans. We package our Blue Sky® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 16-ounce aluminum cans.
 
Hansen’s® Energy Drinks - Our original Hansen’s® energy drinks compete in the “functional” beverage category, namely, beverages that provide a real or perceived benefit in addition to simply delivering refreshment. We offer the following products under the Hansen’s® energy drink product line: Hansen’s® Natural Energy Pro and Hansen’s® Energy Diet Red.  We package our Hansen’s® energy drinks in 8.3-ounce aluminum cans.
 
Hansen’s® Juice Products and Smoothies  - Our fruit juice product line includes Hansen’s® Natural Apple Juice, which is packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles and 128-ounce High Density Polyethylene bottles; as well as Hansen’s® Natural Grape Juice, White Grape Juice, Pineapple Juice, Apple Grape Juice, Apple Strawberry Juice, Orange Juice, Cranberry-Apple Juice, Ruby Red Grapefruit Juice, and Organic Apple Juice, which are all packaged in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles. In March 2011, we added Hansen’s® Natural Cranberry Juice and Cranberry-Grape Juices. These Hansen’s® juice products contain 100% juice as well as 120% of the United States Recommended Daily Allowances (the “USRDA”) for vitamin C. We also offer Hansen’s® Natural Lo-Cal juice cocktails, a line of all natural, low-calorie 64-ounce juice cocktails in four flavors. The Lo-Cal juice cocktails are sweetened with Truvia®. Hansen’s® juice products compete in the shelf-stable juice category.
 
Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies contain approximately 25% juice and provide 100% of the USRDA for adults of vitamins A, C & E. Hansen’s® fruit juice smoothies are packaged in 11.5-ounce aluminum cans.
 
Hansen’s® Aseptic Juices – We offer a number of aseptically packed boxed juice products, including our dual-branded multi-vitamin 100% juice line, which we sell in conjunction with Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”) through Costco stores. We offer our Hansen’s® Natural line of multi-vitamin 100% juices to other customers. These multi-vitamin juices contain eleven essential vitamins and six essential minerals, are packaged in 6.75-ounce aseptic boxes, and are available in a variety of flavors.
 
6






Table of Contents
 
Our Hansen’s® Junior Juice® product line is a 100% juice line offered principally in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages, targeted at toddlers and preschoolers. These juices have added calcium and all flavors contain 100% of the daily recommended allowance of vitamin C. We also offer organic juices in 4.23-ounce aseptic boxes. In October 2011, we launched Junior Juice® Coconut Water Twist™, a line of fruit and coconut water juices packaged in 6.75-ounce aseptic boxes and available in a number of flavors. We also market Hansen’s® Organic Junior Water®, a lightly flavored reduced calorie beverage line, also packaged in 4.23-ounce aseptic packages.
 
Hubert’s® Lemonades – Our Hubert’s® Lemonade is a line of premium ready-to-drink lemonades packaged in 16-ounce glass bottles. Hubert’s® Lemonade is sweetened with cane sugar and Truvia®. Hubert’s® Lemonade is all natural and contains no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, caffeine, or artificial colorings. We offer the following products under the Hubert’s® Lemonade product line: strawberry lemonade, limeade, mango lemonade, honey lemonade, raspberry lemonade and original lemonade.
 
In October 2011, we introduced Hubert’s® Half & Half, a line of premium ready-to-drink lemonade + tea drinks, packaged in 15.5-ounce aluminum cans and available in a variety of flavors. Hubert’s® Half & Half is sweetened with cane sugar and Truvia®, and contains no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, or artificial colorings.
 
Hansen’s® Natural Fruit Stix® and Tea Stix™ - Our Fruit and Tea Stix™ product line is an all-natural, low-calorie powder drink mix line, sweetened naturally with Truvia®. Hansen’s® Natural Fruit Stix® and Tea Stix™ powders are packaged in 3-gram and 4-gram slim stick packs.
 
Vidration® Enhanced Waters - Our zero calorie, vitamin enhanced flavored water line is offered under the Vidration® brand name, packaged in 20-ounce PET plastic bottles. This line includes the following beverages: Defense, Recover, Energy, Multi-V and Power.
 
Angeleno™ Aquas Frescas  - In December 2011, we introduced Angeleno™ Aguas Frescas, a line of premium ready-to-drink aguas frescas packaged in 16-ounce glass bottles. Angeleno™ Aguas Frescas are sweetened with cane sugar and real fruit juice and contain no preservatives, artificial sweeteners, caffeine, or artificial colorings. We offer the following flavors under the Angeleno™ Aguas Frescas product line: Mango, Melon, Pineapple, Jamaica (Hibiscus), and Tamarindo.
 
PRE® Beverages and Drink Mixes - In December 2011, we acquired PRE Beverage’s assets which include a line of prebiotic and probiotic digestive wellness ready-to-drink beverages and powder drink mixes, containing specially formulated blends by Jarrow Formulas. PRE® prebiotic ready-to-drink beverages are sweetened with either cane sugar or stevia and are packaged in proprietary 16.9-ounce PET plastic bottles. PRE® probiotic powder drink mixes are sweetened with cane sugar and stevia and are packaged in 7-gram stick packs.
 
Other Products
 
We continue to evaluate and, where considered appropriate, introduce additional flavors and types of beverages to complement our existing product lines. We may also evaluate, and where considered appropriate, introduce additional types of consumer products we consider are complementary to our existing products and/or to which our brand names are able to add value.
 
7






Table of Contents
 
We also develop and supply, on a limited basis, selected beverages in different formats to a limited number of customers with the objective of solidifying and/or enhancing our relationship with those customers.
 
Manufacture and Distribution
 
We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource the manufacturing process to third party bottlers and contract packers.
 
We purchase concentrates, juices, flavors, supplements, cans, bottles, aseptic boxes, caps, labels, trays, boxes and other ingredients for our beverage products from our suppliers, which are delivered to our various third party bottlers and co-packers. Depending on the product, the third party bottlers or packers add filtered water and/or other ingredients and supplements for the manufacture and packaging of the finished products into our approved containers in accordance with our formulas. Depending on the beverage, the bottler/packer may also add carbonation to the products as part of the production process.
 
Co-Packing Arrangements
 
All of our beverage products are manufactured by various third party bottlers and co-packers situated throughout the United States and abroad, under separate arrangements with each party. The majority of our co-packaging arrangements are generally on a month-to-month basis or are terminable upon request and do not generally obligate us to produce any minimum quantities of products within specified periods.
 
In some instances subject to agreement, certain equipment may be purchased by us and installed at the facilities of our co-packers to enable them to produce certain of our products. In general, such equipment remains our property and is returned to us upon termination of the packing arrangements with such co-packers, unless we are reimbursed by the co-packer via a per case charge over a pre-determined number of cases that are produced at the facilities concerned.
 
We are generally responsible for arranging for the purchase and delivery to our third party bottlers and co-packers of the containers in which our beverage products are packaged.
 
We pack certain of our products in a number of locations both domestically and internationally, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Europe, Mexico and the United States, to enable us to produce products closer to the markets where they are sold with the objective of reducing freight costs. As distribution volumes increase in both our domestic and international markets, we continue to source additional packing arrangements closer to such markets to further reduce freight costs. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products and/or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, aseptic boxes, glass, labels, flavors, juice concentrates, supplements, other ingredients, certain sweeteners, and/or procure adequate packing arrangements and/or obtain adequate or timely shipment of our products, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. (See “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors”).
 
Although our production arrangements are generally of short duration or are terminable upon our request, we believe a short disruption or delay would not significantly affect our revenues because alternative packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity can usually be obtained for many of our products at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. However, there are limited packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for certain of our products, including Monster Energy®, Monster Rehab™, Monster Energy® Import and Import Light, Monster Energy® Dub Edition, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®, X-Presso Monster®, Worx Energy® energy shots, our Java Monster® product line and our aseptic juice products.
 
8






Table of Contents
 
A lengthy disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues from such products, as alternative co-packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity may not be available for such products, either at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products could affect our revenues.
 
We continue to seek alternative and/or additional advantageously located co-packing facilities in Asia, Canada, Central America, Europe, South America and the United States with adequate capacity and capability for the production of our various products to minimize the risk of a disruption in production.
 
Distribution Agreements
 
During 2011, we continued to expand distribution of our products in both the domestic and international markets, and our Monster Energy® drinks are now sold in approximately 70 countries and territories around the world.
 
Certain of our distribution agreements, as amended from time to time, are described below:
 



     

(a)    

During the   second quarter of 2006, we entered into the Monster Beverages Off-Premise   Distribution Coordination Agreement and the Allied Products Distribution   Coordination Agreement (jointly, the “Off-Premise Agreements”) with   Anheuser-Busch, Inc., a Missouri corporation (“AB”). Under the   Off-Premise Agreements, select Anheuser-Busch distributors (the “AB   Distributors”) distribute and sell, primarily our Monster Energy® beverages,   as well as additional products that may be agreed between the parties in   various territories wihtin the United States.       


     

     

        


     

(b)    

During the first   quarter of 2007, we entered into the On-Premise Distribution Coordination   Agreement (the “On-Premise Agreement”) with AB. Under the On-Premise   Agreement, select AB Distributors distribute and sell our Monster Energy®   beverages to on-premise retailers including bars, nightclubs and restaurants.       


     

     

        


     

(c)    

During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Distribution   Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC North American Coordination Agreement”) with   The Coca-Cola Company (“TCCC”). Pursuant to the TCCC North American   Coordination Agreement, we have designated, and in the future may designate,   subject to TCCC’s approval, territories in Canada and the United States in   which bottlers from TCCC’s network of wholly or partially-owned and   independent bottlers, including Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (“CCE”) (now   Coca-Cola Refreshments USA, Inc. (“CCR”)), Coca-Cola Bottling Company   (“CCBC”), CCBCC Operations, LLC (“Consolidated”), United Bottling Contracts   Company, LLC (“United”), and other TCCC independent bottlers (collectively,   the “TCCC North American Bottlers”) will distribute and sell primarily our   Monster Energy® beverages (the “Products”).       


     

     

        


     

(d)    

During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Distribution   Agreement with CCE (now CCR), pursuant to which CCE was appointed to   distribute, directly and through certain sub-distributors, the Products in   portions of the United States.       


     

     

        


     

(e)    

During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy Canadian   Distribution Agreement with CCBC (now Coca-Cola Refreshments   Canada, Ltd. (“CCRC”)), pursuant to which CCBC was appointed to   distribute and sell, directly and through certain sub-distributors, the   Products in Canada, commencing January 1, 2009.         
 
9







Table of Contents
 



     

(f)    

During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into distribution agreements with   Consolidated, United and other TCCC North American Bottlers for the distribution   of the Products in various territories within the United States.       


     

     

        


     

(g)    

On   October 2, 2010, TCCC completed its acquisition of the North American   business operations of CCE, through a merger with a wholly owned subsidiary   of TCCC. The surviving wholly owned subsidiary was subsequently renamed CCR,   and currently distributes the Products in those portions of the United States   in which CCE previously distributed the Products. Concurrently with this   acquisition, a new entity, which retained the name Coca-Cola   Enterprises, Inc. (“New CCE”) was formed, which currently distributes   the Products in certain European territories (see (i) below).       


     

     

        


     

(h)    

During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy International   Coordination Agreement (the “TCCC International Coordination Agreement”) with   TCCC. Pursuant to the TCCC International Coordination Agreement, we have   designated, and in the future may designate, countries in which we wish to   appoint TCCC distributors to distribute and sell the Products, subject to   TCCC’s approval.       


     

     

        


     

(i)    

During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into the Monster Energy International   Distribution Agreement and the Monster Energy Belgium Distribution Agreement   with CCE (now New CCE) pursuant to which CCE was appointed to distribute   directly, and through certain sub-distributors, the Products in Great   Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Monaco. During the   first quarter of 2011, Sweden was added to the Monster Energy International   Distribution Agreement.       


     

     

        


     

(j)    

During 2010 and   2011, the Company entered into distribution agreements with certain bottlers   of the Coca-Cola Hellenic group (“Coca-Cola Hellenic”) for distribution of   its Monster Energy® products in Austria, Bulgaria, Czech-Republic, Hungary,   Slovakia, Cyprus, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and Switzerland. In the   first quarter of 2012, Coca-Cola Hellenic commenced distribution in Poland.       


     

     

        


     

(k)    

During the   fourth quarter of 2008, we entered into a distribution agreement with   Comercializadora Eloro, S.A., a subsidiary of Grupo Jumex (“Jumex”), for   exclusive distribution throughout Mexico, excluding the Baja and Sonora   regions, for certain of our Monster Energy® beverages. Distribution under   this agreement commenced January 26, 2009. Effective June 11, 2010,   this agreement was amended to include the Baja and Sonora regions.       


     

     

        


     

(l)    

During the   second quarter of 2009, we entered into a distribution agreement with   Schweppes Australia Pty Ltd. for exclusive distribution throughout Australia   of certain of our Monster Energy® energy drinks. Distribution under this   agreement commenced in July 2009.       


     

     

        


     

(m)    

On   September 12, 2011, we entered into a distribution agreement with Lotte   Chilsung Beverage Co. Ltd. for exclusive distribution throughout South Korea   of certain of our Monster Energy® beverages. Distribution under this   agreement is expected to commence in the first half of 2012.       


     

     

        


     

(n)    

On   August 17, 2011, we entered into a distribution agreement with Asahi   Soft Drinks Co, Ltd. for exclusive distribution throughout Japan of   certain of our Monster Energy® beverages. Distribution under this agreement   is expected to commence in the first half of 2012.         
 
Distribution levels vary by product and geographic location. Gross sales outside the United States accounted for $381.0 million, $240.6 million and $168.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
10






Table of Contents
 
We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with other regional bottlers or direct store delivery distributors with established sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other beverage products. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.
 
Raw Materials and Suppliers
 
The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products are aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk, cream and supplements, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. Overall prices of our raw materials increased in 2011 as compared to 2010 and certain raw material costs are continuing to increase in 2012. We have contracted for the majority of our projected aluminum can requirements for 2012 at more favorable pricing than in 2011, due to more favorable aluminum pricing contracts entered into by us with our aluminum can suppliers. Although the price of apple juice concentrate has increased significantly, we have secured a portion of our anticipated 2012 requirements of apple juice concentrate at prices similar to the pricing incurred in 2011, however, we expect our average cost of apple juice concentrate in 2012 to be higher than 2011. Sugar prices were higher in 2011 than 2010 and are continuing to increase. We have also secured a large portion of our sugar requirements for 2012. We are experiencing increased costs of PET plastic bottles, fuel, as well as certain juice concentrates, certain supplements and other ingredients in 2012.
 
We purchase beverage flavors, concentrates, juices, supplements, cane sugar, sucrose, sucralose and other sweeteners as well as other ingredients from independent suppliers located in the United States and abroad.
 
Generally, raw materials utilized by us in our business are readily available from numerous sources. However, certain raw materials are manufactured by only one company.  We purchase sucralose, which is used alone or in combination with Acesulfame-K in many of our products, flavors, vitamin blends and herbs, certain other supplements, as well as certain other ingredients, from single manufacturers. Additionally, certain of our cans and flavors are only manufactured by single companies.
 
With regard to our Java Monster® product line, the dairy industry is subject to shortages and increased demand from time to time, which may result in higher prices.
 
With regard to our fruit juice and juice-drink products, the industry is subject to variability of demand and weather conditions, which may result in higher prices and/or lower consumer demand for juices.
 
Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors and do not make their flavor formulas available to their customers and also do not make our flavors available to other third parties.  Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain comparable flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. We have identified alternative suppliers for many of the ingredients contained in many of our beverages. However, industry-wide shortages of certain fruits and fruit juices, coffee, tea, supplements and sweeteners have been, and could from time to time in the future be, encountered, which could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products.
 
We continually endeavor to develop back-up sources of supply for certain of our flavors and concentrates as well as to negotiate arrangements with suppliers, which would enable us to obtain access to certain concentrates or our flavor formulas in certain circumstances. We have been partially successful in these endeavors. Additionally, in a limited number of cases, contractual restrictions and/or the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals and licenses may limit our ability to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers, manufacturers and/or distributors.
 
11






Table of Contents
 
In connection with the development of new products and flavors, independent suppliers bear a large portion of the expense of product development, thereby enabling us to develop new products and flavors at a relatively low cost. We have historically developed and successfully introduced new products, flavors and packaging for our products and intend to continue to develop and introduce additional new beverages, flavors and innovative packaging.
 
Competition
 
The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors as well as promotional and marketing strategies. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.
 
Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include taste and flavor of products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development and marketing of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising, and pricing. We also compete for distributors who will give our products more focus than those of our competitors, provide stable and reliable distribution and secure adequate shelf space in retail outlets. Competitive pressures in the “alternative”, energy, coffee and “functional” beverage categories could cause our products to be unable to gain or to lose market share or we could experience price erosion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
 
We have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the energy drink and energy shot categories. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas, juice cocktails and enhanced waters in larger volume packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Sobe Life Water, Vitamin Water, Snapple, Arizona, Fuse, Ocean Spray, Honest Tea, Gold Peak Tea, Activate and Neuro, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits. We believe that many of those products contain lower levels of supplements, principally deliver refreshment and are positioned differently from our energy or “functional” drinks. Our Peace Tea® ready-to-drink iced teas are positioned more closely against those products.
 
We are also subject to increasing levels of regulatory issues particularly in relation to the registration and taxation of our products in certain new international markets, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage.
 
We compete not only for consumer preference, but also for maximum marketing and sales efforts by multi-brand licensed bottlers, brokers and distributors, many of which have a principal affiliation with competing companies and brands. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and in many cases with products of much larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Inc. (“PepsiCo”), The Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the “DPS Group”), Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and Ocean Spray. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local in operation. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.
 
Domestically, our energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, 5-Hour Energy Shots, Stacker 2, VPX Redline Energy Shots, and many other brands. TCCC and PepsiCo also market and/or distribute additional products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew
 
12






Table of Contents
 
MDX and Vault. Internationally, our energy drinks compete with Red Bull, Rockstar, Burn, V-Energy, Lucozade, Relentless and numerous local and private label brands that usually differ from country to country, such as Power Play, Mother, Hell, Shock, Tiger and a host of other international brands.
 
Our Java Monster® and X-Presso Monster® product lines compete directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Seattle’s Best, illy issimo coffee and Full Throttle Coffee.
 
Our Peace Tea® ready to drink iced tea product line competes directly with Arizona, Lipton, Snapple, Nestea, Xing Tea, Honest Tea, Gold Peak Tea and other tea brands.
 
Our natural sodas compete directly with traditional soda products, including those marketed by TCCC, PepsiCo, the DPS Group, Cott Corporation and National Beverage Corporation, as well as with carbonated beverages marketed by smaller or primarily local companies such as Jones Soda Co., Clearly Canadian Beverage Company, Crystal Geyser, J.M. Smucker Company and with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains and club stores.
 
Our apple and other juice products compete directly with Tree Top, Mott’s, Martinelli’s, Welch’s, Ocean Spray, Tropicana, Minute Maid, Langers, Apple and Eve, Seneca, Northland, Juicy Juice and also with other brands of apple juice and juice blends, including store brands.
 
Our fruit juice smoothies compete directly with Kern’s, Jumex and Jugos del Valle as well as with single-serve juice products produced by many competitors.
 
Our Hubert’s® Lemonades and Hubert’s® Half & Half lemonade + teas compete directly with Calypso, Simply Lemonade, Mistic Drinks and Newman’s Own.
 
Sales and Marketing
 
Our sales and marketing strategy for all our beverages is to focus our efforts on developing brand awareness through image enhancing programs and product sampling. We use our branded vehicles and other promotional vehicles at events where we offer samples of our products to consumers. We utilize “push-pull” methods to enhance shelf and display space exposure in sales outlets (including advertising, in-store promotions and in-store placement of point-of-sale materials, racks, coolers and barrel coolers) to enhance demand from consumers for our products. We also support our brands with prize promotions, price promotions, competitions, endorsements from selected public and extreme sports figures, personality endorsements (including from television and other well known sports personalities), coupons, sampling and sponsorship of selected causes, events, athletes and teams. In-store posters, outdoor posters, print, radio and television advertising and coupons may also be used to promote our brands.
 
We believe that one of the keys to success in the beverage industry is differentiation, making our brands and products visually distinctive from other beverages on the shelves of retailers. We review our products and packaging on an ongoing basis and, where practical, endeavor to make them different, better and unique. The labels and graphics for many of our products are redesigned from time to time to maximize their visibility and identification, wherever they may be placed in stores, which we will continue to reevaluate from time to time.
 
Where appropriate, we partner with retailers to assist our marketing efforts. For example, while we retain responsibility for the marketing of our Hansen’s® line of children’s multi-vitamin juice drinks, Costco has undertaken partial responsibility for the marketing of the Juice Blast® line.
 
13






Table of Contents
 
We increased expenditures for our sales and marketing programs by approximately 46.8% in 2011 compared to 2010. As of December 31, 2011, we employed 1,543 employees in sales and marketing activities, of which 701 were employed on a full-time basis.
 
Customers
 
Our customers are primarily full service beverage distributors, retail grocery and specialty chains, wholesalers, club stores, drug chains, mass merchandisers, convenience chains, health food distributors, food service customers and the military. Gross sales to our various customer types for the years ended December 2011, 2010 and 2009 are reflected below. Such information reflects sales made by us directly to the customer types concerned, which include our full service beverage distributors in the United States. Such full service beverage distributors in turn sell certain of our products to the same customer types listed below. We do not have complete details of the sales of our products by our full service distributors to their respective customers and therefore limit our description of our customer types to include only our sales to such full service distributors, without reference to such distributor’s sales to their own customers.
 



     

     

2011    

     

2010    

     

2009    

        


Full service   distributors    

     

64%    

     

64%    

     

66%    

        


Club stores, drug   chains & mass merchandisers    

     

10%    

     

12%    

     

12%    

        


Outside the U.S.    

     

20%    

     

16%    

     

13%    

        


Retail grocery,   specialty chains and wholesalers    

     

4%    

     

6%    

     

6%    

        


Other    

     

2%    

     

2%    

     

3%    

          
 
Our customers include the TCCC North American Bottlers, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), AB Distributors, certain bottlers of Coca-Cola Hellenic, Kalil Bottling Group, Trader Joe’s, John Lenore & Company, Swire Coca-Cola, Costco, SUPERVALU INC, The Kroger Co. and Safeway, Inc.  CCR accounted for approximately 29% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011.  CCE, which included their operations in the U.S. for the relevant periods (see Distribution Agreements (g) in “Item I – Business – Distribution Agreements”), accounted for approximately 28% and 27% our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Seasonality
 
Sales of ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for the highest sales volumes. The volume of sales in the beverage business may be affected by weather conditions. Sales of our beverage products are becoming increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations as more sales occur outside of California with respect to our products. However, the energy drink category appears to be less seasonal than traditional beverages. Quarterly fluctuations may also be affected by other factors including the introduction of new products, the opening of new markets, particularly internationally, where temperature fluctuations may be more pronounced, the addition of new bottlers and distributors, changes in the mix of the sales of our finished products and increased or decreased advertising and promotional expenses.
 
Intellectual Property
 
We presently have approximately 2,500 registered trademarks and pending applications in various countries worldwide, and we apply for new trademarks on an ongoing basis. We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and similar intellectual property as very important to our business.  We consider Monster®, Monster Energy®, ®, M Monster Energy®, Monster Rehab™, Java Monster®, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®,  X-Presso Monster®, Hansen’s Natural Soda®, Hansen’s®, Peace Tea®, Worx Energy®, Blue Sky®, Hubert’s® and Junior Juice® to be our core trademarks.
 
14






Table of Contents
 
We protect our trademarks by applying for registrations and registering our trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with government agencies in other countries around the world, particularly where our products are distributed and sold.  We also register copyrights in the statements, graphics and content appearing on the packaging of our products.
 
Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed as long as the trademarks are in use.
 
We enforce and protect our trademark rights against third parties infringing or denigrating our trademarks by opposing registration of infringing trademarks, and initiating litigation as necessary.
 
Government Regulation
 
The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are subject to various U.S. federal and state regulations, including but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and a number of other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are also subject to numerous similar and other statutes and regulations.
 
We are also subject to Proposition 65 in California, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in California that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects in excess of certain levels. If we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold, it is difficult to predict whether, or to what extent, such a warning would have an impact on sales of our products in those locations or elsewhere. While none of our beverage products are currently required to display warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether a component of any of our products might be included in the future.
 
Proposals to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or restrict the venues in which energy drinks can be sold and/or impose taxation on the sale of energy drinks, continue to surface and are currently pending before certain state and/or county and/or foreign country legislatures and may from time to time be proposed and/or enacted by such legislatures. Should these current or any future proposals to enact legislation to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or the venues in which energy drinks can be sold and/or impose taxation on the sale of energy drinks, succeed and become widespread, such legislation could result in a reduction in demand for our energy drinks and adversely affect our results of operations, see “Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors” below.
 
Measures have been enacted in various localities and/or states and/or foreign countries that require that a deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary by jurisdiction. Other deposit, recycling or product stewardship proposals have been introduced in certain states and localities and in the Congress of the United States and/or in certain foreign countries, and we anticipate that additional legislation or regulations in this regard may be proposed in the future at the local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere.
 
15






Table of Contents
 
Public health officials and health advocates are increasingly focused on the public health consequences associated with obesity, especially as the disease affects children, and are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of sweetened beverages.  Increasing public concern about these issues could result in the implementation of governmental regulations concerning the marketing, labeling or availability of our beverages.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has proposed revising regulations with respect to serving size information and nutrition labeling on food and beverage products.
 
Compliance with Environmental Laws
 
Our facilities in the United States are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Our operations in other countries are subject to similar laws and regulations that may be applicable in such countries. Compliance with these provisions has not had, nor do we expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, net income or competitive position.
 
In California, we are required to collect redemption values from our customers and to remit such redemption values to the State of California Department of Conservation based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold. In certain other states and countries where our products are sold, we are also required to collect deposits from our customers and to remit such deposits to the respective jurisdictions based upon the number of cans and bottles of certain carbonated and non-carbonated products sold in such states.
 
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2011, we employed a total of 1,900 employees of which 1,047 were employed on a full-time basis. Of our 1,900 employees, we employed 357 in administrative and operational capacities and 1,543 persons in sales and marketing capacities.
 
Available Information
 
As a public company, we are required to file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A and other information (including any amendments) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  You may read and copy such material at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  You can also find the Company’s SEC filings at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
 
Our Internet address is www.monsterbevcorp.com.  Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our SEC filings (including any amendments) will be made available free of charge on www.monsterbevcorp.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing to, or telephoning us at the following address or telephone number:
 
Monster Beverage Corporation
550 Monica Circle, Suite 201
Corona, CA 92880
(951) 739-6200
(800) 426-7367
 
16






Table of Contents
 
ITEM 1A.       RISK FACTORS
 
In addition to the other information in this report, you should carefully consider the following risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risk factors summarized below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.
 
Significant changes in government regulation may hinder sales.
 
The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are subject to various federal and state regulations, including, but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are also subject to numerous similar and other statutes and regulations. New statutes and regulations may also be instituted in the future.  If a regulatory authority finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or such products may have to be recalled and/or reformulated and/or have the packaging changed, thus adversely affecting our financial condition and operations. In particular, California law requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects above certain levels. While we do not believe that any of our beverage products are currently required to display warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether an important component of any of our products might be added to the California list in the future. We also are unable to predict whether or to what extent a warning under this law would have an impact on costs or sales of our products. Proposals to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or restrict the venues in which energy drinks can be sold and/or to impose taxation on the sale of energy drinks, continue to emerge and are currently pending before certain state and/or county and/or other foreign country legislatures. Should these current or any future proposals to enact legislation to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or the venues in which energy drinks can be sold and/or to impose taxation of the sale of energy drinks, succeed and/or be enacted by additional states, counties and/or other jurisdictions, such legislation could result in a reduction in demand for our energy drinks and adversely affect our results of operations.
 
Public health officials and health advocates are increasingly focused on the public health consequences associated with obesity, especially as the disease affects children, and are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of sweetened beverages.  Increasing public concern about these issues could result in the implementation of governmental regulations concerning the marketing, labeling or availability of our beverages.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has proposed revising regulations with respect to serving size information and nutrition labeling on food and beverage products.  If such definitive regulation is promulgated, we may incur significant costs to alter our existing packaging materials to comply with such regulations.  Additionally, revised serving size information may impact and/or reduce and/or otherwise affect the purchase and consumption of our products by our consumers.
 
The U.S. Congress and several state legislatures have considered proposals to impose an excise tax on sweetened beverages.  The imposition of such taxes on our products would increase the cost of products or, to the extent levied directly on consumers, make our products less affordable, both of which could reduce demand for our beverages and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, on January 1, 2011, the Mexican legislature imposed a 25% excise tax on energy drinks.  We have adjusted the caffeine levels in our Monster Energy® products that are sold in Mexico to address this legislation. In 2011, Hungary implemented a tax on energy drinks. In light of this tax, we are adjusting the formulation of our energy drinks in Hungary.  However, such actions, or other actions by retailers to line price energy
 
17






Table of Contents
 
drinks generally irrespective of tax treatment, could decrease consumer demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations.  Furthermore, if similar taxes are imposed in other jurisdictions where we distribute our products, such taxes could result in a reduction in demand for our energy drinks and adversely affect our results of operations.
 
We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our energy drinks and criticism of our energy drink products and/or of the energy drink market generally could adversely affect our operating results.
 
Our energy drink products currently generate the vast majority of our revenues.  Criticism of our energy drink products, including criticism by healthcare professionals of the nutritional benefits of our energy drink products and other criticism for a variety of reasons, could affect consumer opinions of our energy drink products and result in decreased demand, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business.
 
Increased competition could hurt our business.
 
The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and promotion and marketing strategies. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.
 
Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include the taste and flavor of our products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and in many cases with products of much larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Red Bull Gmbh, the DPS Group, Kraft Foods Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, and Nestle Beverage Company. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily national or local in operations. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains, and club stores.
 
There can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in maintaining our current revenues or market share or position due to competition in the beverage industry. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
 
Continued uncertainty in the financial markets and other adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.
 
In 2011, the global economy improved as compared to 2010, however uncertainty continues to exist as to the overall rate and stability of the recovery.  More recently, turmoil in the European credit markets and the sovereign debt crisis in the Euro-zone have posed potential threats to global growth and market stability, and European growth and stability in particular, and thereby increased global macroeconomic uncertainties. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The current global economic conditions may lead consumers to decrease spending, or change their existing and future purchasing habits for cheaper alternatives. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or customers could result in product delays, possible accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. There can be no assurance that any of the recent economic improvements will be broad-based and sustainable, or that they will enhance conditions in markets relevant to us. In addition, we cannot predict the duration and severity of the current disruptions in Europe or the impact they may have on our customers or business, as our expansion outside of the United States has increased our exposure to any
 
18






Table of Contents
 
crisis in European and other international markets. Additionally, many of our products are considered premium products and to maintain market share during recessionary periods we may have to reduce profit margins, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If the improved economic conditions are slower than anticipated or if conditions worsen, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
 
Changes in consumer preferences may reduce demand for some of our products.
 
The beverage industry is subject to changing consumer preferences and shifts in consumer preferences may adversely affect us. There is increasing awareness of and concern for the health consequences of obesity. This may reduce demand for our non-diet beverages, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations.
 
Consumers are seeking greater variety in their beverages. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our continued ability to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages that appeal to consumers. In order to retain and expand our market share, we must continue to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages and be competitive in the areas of taste, quality and health, although there can be no assurance of our ability to do so. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to purchase our products in the future. Product lifecycles for some beverage brands and/or products and/or packages may be limited to a few years before consumers’ preferences change. The beverages we currently market are in varying stages of their product lifecycles and there can be no assurance that such beverages will become or remain profitable for us.  We may be unable to achieve volume growth through product and packaging initiatives. We also may be unable to penetrate new markets. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
 
Operations outside the United States expose us to uncertain conditions and other risks in international markets.
 
Our gross sales to customers outside of the United States were approximately 20%, 16% and 13% of consolidated gross sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and our growth strategy includes further expanding our international business. If we are unable to continue to expand distribution of our products outside the United States, our growth rate could be adversely affected. In many international markets, we have limited operating experience and in some areas we have no operating experience. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and develop and promote our brands in international markets. Our percentage gross profit margins in many international markets are expected to be less than the comparable percentage gross profit margins obtained in the U.S. We face and will continue to face substantial risks associated with having foreign operations, including: economic and/or political instability in our international markets; restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States, including possible taxes and/or withholding obligations on any repatriations; and tariffs and/or trade restrictions. These risks could have a significant impact on our ability to sell our products on a competitive basis in international markets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud and/or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially adverse tax consequences.
 
Global or regional catastrophic events could impact our operations and affect our ability to grow our business.
 
Because of our increasingly global presence, our business could be affected by unstable political conditions, civil unrest, large-scale terrorist acts, especially those directed against the United States or other major industrialized countries where our products are distributed, the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities, major natural disasters or widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases. Such events
 
19







Table of Contents
 
could impact the production and distribution of our products.  In addition, such events could disrupt global or regional economic activity, which could affect consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products.  If we are unable to grow our business internationally as a result of these factors, our growth rate could decline.
 
Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results.
 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, expenses, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We have not used instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks and are not protected against foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, our reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time.
 
We derive a substantial portion of revenues from our energy drinks and competitive pressure in the energy drink category could adversely affect our operating results.
 
A substantial portion of our sales are derived from our energy drinks, including in particular our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. Our DSD segment, which is comprised primarily of energy drinks, represented 94.4% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. Any decrease in the sales of our Monster Energy® brand and other energy drinks could significantly adversely affect our future revenues and net income. Historically, we have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the energy drink category as well as from the more recently emerging energy shot category. Domestically, our energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee, Rockstar Roasted, Full Throttle Coffee, 5-Hour Energy Shots, Stacker 2, VPX Redline Energy Shots and many other brands. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas, juice cocktails and enhanced waters in different packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Sobe Life Water, Snapple, Arizona, Fuse, Ocean Spray, Honest Tea, Gold Peak Tea, Activate, Neuro and Vitamin Water, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits.  In addition, certain large companies such as TCCC and PepsiCo, market and/or distribute products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and Vault. Internationally, our energy drinks compete with Red Bull, Rockstar, Burn, V-Energy, Lucozade, Relentless and numerous local and private label brands that usually differ from country to country, such as Power Play, Mother, Hell, Shock, Tiger and a host of other international brands. Our Java Monster® product line competes directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Seattle’s Best, illy issimo coffee drinks and Full Throttle Coffee. Competitive pressures in the energy drink category could impact our revenues and/or we could experience price erosion and/or lower market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
 
We rely on bottlers and other contract packers to manufacture our products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our bottlers and contract packers and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes constrained or unavailable to us, our business could suffer.
 
We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource such manufacturing to bottlers and other contract packers. In the event of a disruption and/or delay, we may be unable to procure alternative packing facilities at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. In addition, there are limited alternative packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for many of our products, including Monster Energy®, Monster Rehab™, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology®, X-Presso Monster®, Monster Energy® Import and Import Light, Monster Energy® Dub Edition energy drinks and Monster
 
20






Table of Contents
 
Energy® M3™ Super Concentrate in 6.75-ounce and/or 8.3-ounce and/or 9.6-ounce and/or 12-ounce and/or 15.5-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 23.5-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml aluminum cans and/or 18.6-ounce BRE aluminum cans and/or 5-ounce glass bottles and/or 12-ounce, 15-ounce and 24-ounce aluminum cap cans, our Java Monster® product line in 15-ounce aluminum cans, Worx Energy® energy shots in 2-ounce wide-mouth PET plastic bottles, our Peace Tea®  product line in 23-ounce aluminum cans,  our Hansen’s® brand energy drinks in 8.3-ounce cans, aseptic juice products in 4.23-ounce and 6.75-ounce aseptic boxes, our Hubert’s® Lemonades in 16-ounce glass bottles, our Hubert’s® Half & Half in 16-ounce aluminum cans  and other products. A disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues from such products as alternative co-packing facilities in the United States and abroad with adequate capacity may not be available for such products either at commercially reasonable rates, and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products could adversely affect our revenues.
 
We rely on bottlers and distributors to distribute our DSD segment products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing bottlers and distributors and/or secure such bottlers and distributors, our business could suffer.
 
Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other soda, carbonated and non-carbonated brands and other beverage products (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic), including energy drinks. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.
 
The TCCC North American Bottlers, AB Distributors, New CCE and Coca-Cola Hellenic are our primary domestic and international distributors of our Monster Energy® beverages. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or the AB Distributors and/or New CCE and/or Coca-Cola Hellenic, or if the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or AB Distributors and/or New CCE and/or Coca-Cola Hellenic do not effectively focus on marketing, promoting, selling and distributing our products, sales of our Monster Energy® beverages could be adversely affected.
 
We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with regional bottlers and/or other direct store delivery distributors having established sales, marketing and distribution organizations.
 
The marketing efforts of our distributors are important for our success. If our DSD segment brands prove to be less attractive to our existing bottlers and distributors and/or if we fail to attract additional bottlers and distributors, and/or our bottlers and/or distributors do not market, promote and distribute our products effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
 
Our customers are material to our success.  If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing customers, our business could suffer.
 
Unilateral decisions could be taken by our distributors, convenience chains, grocery chains, specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers to discontinue carrying all or any of our products that they are carrying at any time, which could cause our business to suffer.
 
CCR accounted for approximately 29% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011.  CCE accounted for approximately 28% and 27% our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A decision by CCR, CCRC, New CCE, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), Coca-Cola Hellenic, or any other large customer to decrease the amount purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.
 
21






Table of Contents
 
Increases in costs and/or shortages of raw materials and/or ingredients and/or fuel and/or costs of co-packing could harm our business.
 
The principal raw materials used by us are aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, supplements, milk and cream, the costs and availability of which are subject to fluctuations. In addition, certain of our co-pack arrangements allow such co-packers to increase their charges based on certain of their own cost increases. We are uncertain whether the prices of any of the above or any other raw materials or ingredients, certain of which have risen, will continue to rise or may rise in the future. We are unsure whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our customers. We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage the risks associated with securing sufficient ingredients or raw materials although we do, from time to time, enter into purchase agreements for a significant portion of our annual anticipated requirements for certain raw materials such as aluminum cans, apple juice and sugar.
 
In addition, some of these raw materials, such as certain sizes of cans, are available from a limited number of suppliers.
 
Our failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results.
 
We may not correctly estimate demand for our products.  Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to, aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, glass, labels, sucralose, flavors, supplements, juice concentrates, certain sweeteners, coffee, tea or packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. Moreover, industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates, supplements and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the future, be experienced. We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage this risk. Such shortages could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.
 
The costs of packaging supplies are subject to price increases from time to time and we may be unable to pass all or some of such increased costs on to our customers.
 
Many of our packaging supply contracts allow our suppliers to alter the costs they charge us for packaging supplies based on changes in the costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce those packaging supplies, such as aluminum for cans, resin for PET plastic bottles, and pulp and paper for cartons and/or trays. These changes in the prices we pay for our packaging supplies occur at certain predetermined times that vary by product and supplier. In some cases, we are able to fix the prices of certain packaging supplies and/or commodities for a reasonable period. In other cases, we bear the risk of increases in the costs of these packaging supplies, including the underlying costs of the commodities that comprise these packaging supplies. We do not use derivative instruments to manage this risk. If the costs of these packaging supplies increase, we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers through corresponding adjustments to the prices we charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key flavor suppliers.  If we are unable to source our flavors on acceptable terms from our key suppliers, we could suffer disruptions in our business.
 
Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors. Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. If we must replace a flavor supplier, we could experience temporary disruptions in our ability to deliver products to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
22






Table of Contents
 
Our intellectual property rights are critical to our success, and the loss of such rights could materially adversely affect our business.
 
We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business.  We also own the copyright in and to a portion of the content on the packaging of our products. We regard our trademarks, copyrights, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success and attempt to protect such intellectual property with registered and common law trademarks and copyrights, restrictions on disclosure and other actions to prevent infringement. However, there can be no assurance that other third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we lose some or all of our intellectual property rights, our business may be materially adversely affected.
 
If we are unable to maintain brand image or product quality, or if we encounter product recalls, our business may suffer.
 
Our success depends on our ability to build and maintain brand image for our existing products, new products and brand extensions. We have no assurance that our advertising, marketing and promotional programs will have the desired impact on our products’ brand image and on consumer preference and demand. Product quality and/or ingredient content issues, efficacy or lack thereof, real or imagined, or allegations of product contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. We may be required from time to time to recall products entirely or from specific co-packers, markets or batches. Product recalls could adversely affect our profitability and our brand image. We do not maintain recall insurance.
 
While we have to date not experienced any credible product liability litigation, there is no assurance that we will not experience such litigation in the future. In the event we were to experience product liability claims or a product recall, our financial condition and business operations could be materially adversely affected.
 
If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels and/or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, and/or if our retailers’ inventory levels are too high, our operating results could be adversely affected.
 
If we do not accurately anticipate the future demand for a particular product or the time it will take to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels may be inadequate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to meet our shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or retailers, increase our distribution costs and/or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If the inventory of our products held by our distributors and/or retailers is too high, they will not place orders for additional products, which could unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results.
 
If we are not able to retain the full-time services of senior management there may be an adverse effect on our operations and/or our operating performance until we find suitable replacements.
 
Our business is dependent, to a large extent, upon the services of our senior management.  We do not maintain key person life insurance on any members of our senior management. The loss of services of either Mr. Sacks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Schlosberg, President and Chief Financial Officer, or any other key members of our senior management could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms.
 
23






Table of Contents
 
Climate change may negatively affect our business.
 
There is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. While warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of our products, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions, which may limit availability and/or increase the cost of certain key ingredients, juice concentrates and supplements used in our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain including, without limitation, the availability of, and/or result in higher prices for, juice concentrates, natural flavors and supplements or impact demand for our products. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Sales of our products may also be influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Weather conditions may influence consumer demand for certain of our beverages, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
Potential changes in accounting practices and/or taxation may adversely affect our financial results.
 
We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on our financial results. New accounting standards could be issued that change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported earnings. Increases in direct and indirect income tax rates could affect after tax income.  Equally, increases in indirect taxes (including environmental taxes pertaining to the disposal of beverage containers) could affect our products’ affordability and reduce our sales.
 
Volatility of stock price may restrict sale opportunities.
 
Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including stockholder expectations, financial results, the introduction of new products by us and our competitors, general economic and market conditions, estimates and projections by the investment community and public comments by other parties and many other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to achieve analysts’ earnings forecasts, which may be based on their own projected revenues, sales volumes and sales mix of many product types and/or new products, certain of which are more profitable than others, as well as their own estimates of sales revenues, gross margin and operating expenses. There can be no assurance that we will achieve projected levels or mixes of product sales and/or revenues and/or gross margins and/or operating profits and/or net income. As a result, our stock price is subject to significant volatility and stockholders may not be able to sell our stock at attractive prices. In addition, periods of volatility in the market price of our stock could result in the initiation of securities class action litigation against us. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, our stock price high was $49.18 and stock price low was $25.84, as adjusted for the Stock Split.
 
Provisions in our organizational documents and control by insiders may prevent changes in control even if such changes would be beneficial to other stockholders.
 
Our organizational documents may limit changes in control. Furthermore, as of February 9, 2012, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg together may be deemed to beneficially own and/or exercise voting control over approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg could exercise significant control over matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including electing directors, amending organizational documents and disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may be favorable to the other common stockholders.
 
24






Table of Contents
 
Our cash flow may not be sufficient to fund our long term goals.
 
Although we currently have sufficient cash to support our planned operating activities in the current year, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to support our capital expenditure plans and general operating activities in the future. In addition, the terms and/or availability of our credit facility and/or the activities of our creditors could affect the financing of our future growth.
 
Our investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.
 
At December 31, 2011, we had $359.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and $434.5 million in short- and long-term investments. We have historically invested these amounts in U.S. Treasury bills, government agencies and municipal securities (which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that continue to affect various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.
 
Certain of our short-term investments and all of our long-term investments are comprised of municipal or educational related or other public body notes with an auction reset feature (“auction rate securities”). Liquidity for these auction rate securities was typically provided by an auction process which allowed holders to sell their notes at periodic auctions. Since 2008, the auctions for these auction rate securities failed, and there is no assurance that future auctions will succeed.
 
At December 31, 2011, we held auction rate securities with a face value of $44.8 million (amortized cost basis of $35.9 million).
 
In June 2011, we entered into an agreement (the “2011 ARS Agreement”), related to $24.5 million of par value auction rate securities (the “2011 ARS Securities”).  Under the 2011 ARS Agreement, we have the right to sell the 2011 ARS Securities including all accrued but unpaid interest thereon (the “2011 Put Option”) as follows: (i) on or after July 1, 2013, up to $1.0 million aggregate par value; (ii) on or after October 1, 2013, up to an additional $1.0 million aggregate par value; and (iii) in quarterly installments thereafter based on a formula of the then outstanding 2011 ARS securities, as adjusted for normal market redemptions, with full sale rights available on or after April 1, 2016. During the year ended December 31, 2011, $3.7 million of par value 2011 ARS Securities were redeemed at par through normal market channels.
 
In March 2010, we entered into an agreement (the “2010 ARS Agreement”), related to $54.2 million of par value auction rate securities (the “2010 ARS Securities”).  Under the 2010 ARS Agreement, we have the right, but not the obligation, to sell the 2010 ARS Securities including all accrued but unpaid interest thereon (the “2010 Put Option”) as follows: (i) on or after March 22, 2011, up to $13.6 million aggregate par value; and (ii) equal semi-annual or annual installments thereafter with full sale rights available on or after March 22, 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2011, $27.1 million of par value 2010 ARS Securities were redeemed at par through the exercise of the 2010 Put Option and $4.0 million of par value 2010 ARS Securities were redeemed at par through normal market channels ($7.4 million of par value 2010 ARS Securities were redeemed at par through normal market channels during the year ended December 31, 2010).
 
25






Table of Contents
 
If the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to refinance their debts and call the notes or successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional impairment charges on these investments in the future. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue or there are ratings downgrades on the auction rate securities held by us, we may be required to recognize additional impairments on these investments. We may be required to wait until market stability is restored to redeem these instruments, for the related Put Options to be exercisable, or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 40 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value (See “Part II, Item 7A – Qualitative And Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risks” and “Part II, Item 8, Notes 2 and 3” in our consolidated financial statements”).
 
If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting on a consolidated basis, our stock price and investor confidence in our Company could be materially and adversely affected.
 
We are required to maintain both disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that are effective for the purposes described in “Part II, Item 9A – Controls and Procedures.” If we fail to do so, our business, results of operations, financial condition or the value of our stock could be materially harmed.
 
Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results.
 
We are a party, from time to time, to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, intellectual property, fraud, unfair business practices and false advertising, breach of contract claims, securities actions and shareholder derivative actions. Material legal proceedings are described more fully in “Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” and in “Part II, Item 8, Note 9” to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K.
 
Defending these proceedings can result in significant ongoing expenditures and the diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could have a negative effect on our business operations. Our failure to successfully defend or settle any litigation or legal proceedings could result in liabilities that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenue and profitability, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline.
 
We must continually maintain, protect and/or upgrade our information technology systems.
 
Information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breaches, including cybersecurity attacks. Cybersecurity attacks are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. We believe that we have adopted appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks to our technology and our operations from these information technology-related disruptions.  However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to operational interruption, damage to our brand image and private data exposure. Moreover, if our data management systems, including our SAP enterprise resource planning system, do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, cybersecurity attack, or human error, our
 
26






Table of Contents
 
ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results.
 
ITEM 1B