ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



Competition in seeds and traits and agricultural chemicals has significantly affected, and will
continue to affect, our sales.




Many companies engage in research and development of plant biotechnology and breeding and
agricultural chemicals, and speed in getting a new product to market can be a significant
competitive advantage. Our competitors’ success could render our existing products less
competitive, resulting in reduced sales compared to our expectations or past results. We expect
to see increasing competition from agricultural biotechnology firms and from major agrichemical,
seed and food companies. We also expect to face continued competition for our Roundup herbicides
and selective herbicides product lines, which could be influenced by trade and industrial
policies of foreign countries. The extent to which we can realize cash and gross profit from our
business will depend on our ability to: control manufacturing and marketing costs without


9




Table of Contents






    
    
    




    MONSANTO COMPANY

     
    2011 FORM 10-K


     






adversely affecting sales; predict and respond effectively to competitor products, pricing and
marketing; provide marketing programs meeting the needs of our customers and of the farmers who
are our end users; maintain an efficient distribution system; and develop new products and
services with features attractive to our end users.


Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to defend claims against us can increase
our costs and will not always succeed; any failures could adversely affect sales and profitability
or restrict our ability to do business.




Intellectual property rights are crucial to our business, particularly our Seeds and Genomics
segment. We endeavor to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights in jurisdictions in
which our products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which our products are
imported. Different nations may provide limited rights and inconsistent duration of protection
for our products. We may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key
jurisdictions. Even if protection is obtained, competitors, farmers, or others in the chain of
commerce may raise legal challenges to our rights or illegally infringe on our rights, including
through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. For example, the practice by some
farmers of saving seeds from non-hybrid crops (such as soybeans, canola and cotton) containing
our biotechnology traits has prevented and may continue to prevent us from realizing the full
value of our intellectual property, particularly outside the United States. In addition, because
of the rapid pace of technological change, and the confidentiality of patent applications in some
jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents from applications that were unknown to us prior
to issuance. These patents could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline products or, to
the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek
to obtain licenses or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. We
cannot assure we would be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms. The extent to which
we succeed or fail in our efforts to protect our intellectual property will affect our costs,
sales and other results of operations.


We are subject to extensive regulation affecting our seed biotechnology and agricultural products
and our research and manufacturing processes, which affects our sales and profitability.




Regulatory and legislative requirements affect the development, manufacture and distribution of
our products, including the testing and planting of seeds containing our biotechnology traits and
the import of crops grown from those seeds, and non-compliance can harm our sales and
profitability. Obtaining permits for mining and production, and obtaining testing, planting and
import approvals for seeds or biotechnology traits can be time-consuming and costly, with no
guarantee of success. The failure to receive necessary permits or approvals could have near- and
long-term effects on our ability to sell some current and future products. Planting approvals may
also include significant regulatory requirements that can limit our sales. Sales of our traits
can be affected in jurisdictions where planting has been approved if we have not received
approval for the import of crops containing such biotechnology traits by key importing markets.
Concern about unintended but unavoidable trace amounts (sometimes called “adventitious presence”)
of commercial biotechnology traits in conventional (non-biotechnology) seed, or in the grain or
products produced from conventional or organic crops, among other things, could lead to increased
regulation or legislation, which may include: liability transfer mechanisms that may include
financial protection insurance; possible restrictions or moratoria on testing, planting or use of
biotechnology traits; and requirements for labeling and traceability, which requirements may
cause food processors and food companies to avoid biotechnology and select non-biotechnology crop
sources and can affect farmer seed purchase decisions and the sale of our products. Further, the
detection of adventitious presence of traits not approved in the importing country may result in
the withdrawal of seed lots from sale or in compliance actions, such as crop destruction or
product recalls. Legislation encouraging or discouraging the planting of specific crops can also
harm our sales. In addition, claims that increased use of glyphosate-based herbicides or
biotechnology traits increases the potential for the development of glyphosate-resistant weeds or
pests resistant to our traits could result in restrictions on the use of glyphosate-based
herbicides or seeds containing our traits or otherwise reduce our sales.


The degree of public acceptance or perceived public acceptance of our biotechnology products can
affect our sales and results of operations by affecting planting approvals, regulatory requirements
and customer purchase decisions.




Although all of our products go through rigorous testing, some opponents of our technology
actively raise public concern about the potential for adverse effects of our products on human or
animal health, other plants and the environment. The potential for adventitious presence of
commercial biotechnology traits in conventional seed, or in the grain or products produced from
conventional or organic crops, is another factor that can affect general public acceptance of
these traits. Public concern can affect the timing of, and whether we are able to obtain,
government approvals. Even after approvals are granted, public concern may lead to increased
regulation or legislation or litigation against government regulators


10




Table of Contents






    
    
    




    MONSANTO COMPANY

     
    2011 FORM 10-K


     






concerning prior regulatory
approvals, which could affect our sales and results of operations by affecting planting
approvals, and may adversely affect sales of our products to farmers, due to their concerns about
available markets for the sale of crops or other products derived from biotechnology. In
addition, opponents of agricultural biotechnology have attacked farmers’ fields and facilities
used by agricultural biotechnology companies, and may launch future attacks against farmers’
fields and our field testing sites and research, production, or other facilities, which could
affect our sales and our costs.


The successful development and commercialization of our pipeline products will be necessary for our
growth.




We use advanced breeding technologies to produce hybrids and varieties with superior performance
in the farmer’s field, and we use biotechnology to introduce traits that enhance specific
characteristics of our crops. The processes of breeding, biotechnology trait discovery and
development and trait integration are lengthy, and a very small percentage of the genes and
germplasm we test is selected for commercialization. There are a number of reasons why a new
product concept may be abandoned, including greater than anticipated development costs, technical
difficulties, regulatory obstacles, competition, inability to prove the original concept, lack of
demand, and the need to divert focus, from time to time, to other initiatives with perceived
opportunities for better returns. The length of time and the risk associated with the breeding
and biotech pipelines are interlinked because both are required as a package for commercial
success in markets where biotech traits are approved for growers. In countries where biotech
traits are not approved for widespread use, our sales depend on our germplasm. Commercial success
frequently depends on being the first company to the market, and many of our competitors are also
making considerable investments in similar new biotechnology or improved germplasm products.
Consequently, if we are not able to fund extensive research and development activities and
deliver new products to the markets we serve on a timely basis, our growth and operations will be
harmed.


Adverse outcomes in legal proceedings could subject us to substantial damages and adversely affect
our results of operations and profitability.




We are involved in major lawsuits concerning intellectual property, biotechnology, torts,
contracts, antitrust allegations, shareowner claims, and other matters, as well as governmental
inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to results of operations
in the period recognized or limit our ability to engage in our business activities. While we have
insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover any liabilities
we incur as a result of these lawsuits. In addition, pursuant to the Separation Agreement, we are
required to indemnify Pharmacia for certain liabilities related to its former chemical and
agricultural businesses. We have recorded reserves for potential liabilities where we believe the
liability to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may be materially
different from this estimate. The degree to which we may ultimately be responsible for the
particular matters reflected in the reserve is uncertain.



We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which
could, if not remediated, result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements.




Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our
financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. As disclosed
in Item 9A, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial
reporting related to accounting for customer incentive programs relating to our glyphosate
products. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in
internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a
material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that
our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—An
Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to
address this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material
weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal
control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain
material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results.


Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, which could
negatively affect our results of operations and profitability.




We engage in manufacturing, seed production, research and development, and sales in many parts of
the world. Although we have operations in virtually every region, our sales outside the United
States in fiscal year 2011 were principally to customers in Brazil, Argentina, Canada, Mexico and
India. Accordingly, developments in those parts of the world generally have a more significant
effect on our operations than developments in other places. Our operations outside the United
States are subject to special risks and restrictions, including: fluctuations in currency values
and foreign-currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations; changes in local political or
economic conditions; governmental pricing directives; import and trade restrictions; import or
export licensing requirements and trade policy; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds;
and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies
affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad. Acts of terror or war may impair our ability to
operate in particular countries or regions, and may impede the flow of goods and services between
countries. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or it could
become more expensive for them to purchase imported products in their local currency, or sell
their commodity at prevailing international prices, and we may be unable to collect receivables
from such customers. Further, changes in exchange rates may affect our net income, the book value
of our assets outside the United States, and our shareowners’ equity.


11




Table of Contents






    
    
    




    MONSANTO COMPANY

     
    2011 FORM 10-K


     





In the event of any diversion of management’s attention to matters related to acquisitions or any
delays or difficulties encountered in connection with integrating acquired operations, our
business, and in particular our results of operations and financial condition, may be harmed.




We have recently completed acquisitions and we expect to make additional acquisitions. We must
fit such acquisitions into our long-term growth strategies to generate sufficient value to
justify their cost. Acquisitions also present other challenges, including geographical
coordination, personnel integration and retention of key management personnel, systems
integration and the reconciliation of corporate cultures. Those operations could divert
management’s attention from our business or cause a temporary interruption of or loss of momentum
in our business and the loss of key personnel from the acquired companies.


Fluctuations in commodity prices can increase our costs and decrease our sales.




We contract production with multiple growers at fair value and retain the seed in inventory until
it is sold. These purchases constitute a significant portion of the manufacturing costs for our
seeds. Additionally, our chemical manufacturing operations use chemical intermediates and energy,
which are subject to increases in price as the costs of oil and natural gas increase.
Accordingly, increases in commodity prices may negatively affect our cost of goods sold or cause
us to increase seed or chemical prices, which could adversely affect our sales. We use hedging
strategies, and most of our raw material supply agreements contain escalation factors, designed
to mitigate the risk of short-term changes in commodity prices. However, we are unable to avoid
the risk of medium- and long-term increases. Farmers’ incomes are also affected by commodity
prices; as a result, fluctuations in commodity prices could have a negative effect on their
ability to purchase our seed and chemical products.


Compliance with quality controls and regulations affecting our manufacturing may be costly, and
failure to comply may result in decreased sales, penalties and remediation obligations.




Because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our manufacturing processes and engage
in mining operations, we are subject to operational risks including the potential for unintended
environmental contamination, which could lead to potential personal injury claims, remediation
expenses and penalties. Should a catastrophic event occur at any of our facilities, we could face
significant reconstruction or remediation costs, penalties, third party liability and loss of
production capacity, which could affect our sales. In addition, lapses in quality or other
manufacturing controls could affect our sales and result in claims for defective products.


Our ability to match our production to the level of product demanded by farmers or our licensed
customers has a significant effect on our sales, costs, and growth potential.




Farmers’ decisions are affected by market, economic and weather conditions that are not known in
advance. Failure to provide distributors with enough inventories of our products will reduce our
current sales. However, product inventory levels at our distributors may reduce sales in future
periods, as those distributor inventories are worked down. In addition, inadequate distributor
liquidity could affect distributors’ ability to pay for our products and, therefore, affect our
sales or our ability to collect on our receivables. International glyphosate manufacturing
capacity has increased in the past few years. The price of this glyphosate will impact the
selling price and margin of Roundup brands and also on our third party sourcing business.


Our ability to issue short-term debt to fund our cash flow requirements and the cost of such debt
may affect our financial condition.




We regularly extend credit to our customers in certain areas of the world to enable them to
acquire crop production products and seeds at the beginning of their growing seasons. Because of
these credit practices and the seasonality of our sales, we may need to issue short-term debt at
certain times of the year to fund our cash flow requirements. The amount of short-term debt will
be greater to the extent that we are unable to collect customer receivables when due and to
manage our costs and expenses. Any downgrade in our credit rating, or other limitation on our
access to short-term financing or refinancing, would increase our interest cost and adversely
affect our profitability.


Weather, natural disasters and accidents may significantly affect our results of operations and
financial condition.




12




Table of Contents









    
    
    




    MONSANTO COMPANY

     
    2011 FORM 10-K


     






Weather and field conditions can adversely affect the timing of crop planting, acreage planted,
crop yields and commodity prices. In turn, seed production volumes, quality and cost may also be
adversely affected which could impact our sales and profitability. Natural disasters or
industrial accidents could also affect our manufacturing facilities, or those of our major
suppliers or major customers, which could affect our costs and our ability to meet supply. One of
our major U.S. glyphosate manufacturing facilities is located in Luling, Louisiana, which is an
area subject to hurricanes. In addition, several of our key raw material and utility suppliers
have production assets in the U.S. gulf coast region and are also susceptible to damage risk from
hurricanes. Hawaii, which is also subject to hurricanes, is a major seeds and traits location for
our pipeline products.





ITEM 1B