 under the heading “Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, which could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability,” and Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data —Note 25 — Segment and Geographic Data, which are incorporated herein by reference. Approximately 41 percent of Monsanto’s sales, including 35 percent of our Seeds and Genomics segment sales and 56 percent of our Agricultural Productivity segment sales, originated from our legal entities outside the United States during fiscal year 2016.7MONSANTO COMPANY 2016 FORM 10-KSEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATAFor information on segment and geographic data, see Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 25 — Segment and Geographic Data, which is incorporated by reference herein.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our BusinessCompetition in seeds and traits and agricultural chemicals has significantly affected, and will continue to affect, our sales.Many companies engage in research and development of plant biotechnology and breeding and agricultural chemicals, and speed in getting a new product to market can be a significant competitive advantage. Our competitors’ success could render our existing products less competitive, resulting in reduced sales compared to our expectations or past results. We expect to see increasing competition from agricultural biotechnology firms and from major agrichemical and seed companies. We also expect to face continued competition for our Roundup herbicides and selective herbicides product lines, which could be influenced by trade and industrial policies of foreign countries. The extent to which we can realize cash and gross profit from our business will depend on our ability to: control manufacturing and marketing costs without adversely affecting sales; predict and respond effectively to competitor products, pricing and marketing; provide marketing programs meeting the needs of our customers and of the farmers who are our end users; maintain an efficient distribution system; and develop new products and services with features attractive to our end users.  Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to defend claims against us can increase our costs and will not always succeed; any failures could adversely affect sales and profitability or restrict our ability to do business.Intellectual property rights are crucial to our business, particularly our Seeds and Genomics segment. We endeavor to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights in jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which our products are imported. Different nations may provide limited rights and inconsistent duration of protection for our products. We may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions. Even if protection is obtained, competitors, farmers, or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges to our rights or illegally infringe on our rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. For example, the practice by some farmers of saving seeds from non-hybrid crops (such as soybeans, canola and cotton) containing our biotechnology traits has prevented and may continue to prevent us from realizing the full value of our intellectual property, particularly outside the United States. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change, and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents from applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance. These patents could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek to obtain licenses or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. We cannot assure we would be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms. The extent to which we succeed or fail in our efforts to protect our intellectual property will affect our costs, sales and other results of operations.We are subject to extensive regulation affecting our seed biotechnology and agricultural products and our research and manufacturing processes, which affects our sales and profitability.Regulatory and legislative requirements affect the development, manufacture and distribution of our products, including the testing and planting of seeds containing our biotechnology traits and the import of crops grown from those seeds, and non-compliance can harm our sales and profitability. Obtaining and maintaining permits for mining and production and obtaining and maintaining testing, planting and import approvals for seeds or biotechnology traits can be time-consuming and costly, with no guarantee of success. In addition, regulatory and legislative requirements may change over time which can also affect our sales and profitability. The failure to receive necessary permits or approvals could have near- and long-term effects on our ability to produce and sell some current and future products. Planting approvals may also include significant regulatory requirements that can limit our sales. Sales of our traits can be affected in jurisdictions where planting has been approved if we have not received approval for the import of crops containing such biotechnology traits by key import markets. Sales of our traits without having approval for the import of crops containing such biotechnology traits by an import market could lead to disruption of that market, and we may face claims of potential liability. Concern about unintended but unavoidable trace amounts (sometimes called “low-level presence”) of commercial biotechnology traits in conventional (non-biotechnology) seed, or in the grain or products produced from conventional or organic crops, among other things, could lead to export disruption and increased regulation or legislation, which may include: liability transfer mechanisms that may include financial protection insurance; possible restrictions or moratoria on testing, planting or use of biotechnology traits; 8MONSANTO COMPANY 2016 FORM 10-Kand requirements for labeling and traceability, which requirements may cause food processors and food companies to avoid biotechnology and select non-biotechnology crop sources and can affect farmer seed purchase decisions and the sale of our products. Further, the detection of the presence of biotech traits not approved in the country of planting (sometimes called “adventitious presence”) may affect seed availability or result in export disruption and compliance actions, such as crop destruction or product recalls. Legislation encouraging or discouraging the planting of specific crops can also harm our sales. In addition, concern and claims that increased use of glyphosate-based herbicides or biotechnology traits increases the potential for the development of glyphosate-resistant weeds or pests resistant to our traits could result in restrictions on the use of glyphosate-based herbicides or seeds containing our traits or otherwise reduce our sales.The degree of public understanding and acceptance or perceived public acceptance of our biotechnology and other agricultural products can affect our sales and results of operations by affecting planting approvals, regulatory requirements and customer purchase decisions.Although all of our products go through rigorous testing, some opponents of our technology actively raise public concern about the potential for adverse effects of our products on human or animal health, other plants and the environment. The potential for low-level or adventitious presence of commercial biotechnology traits in conventional seed, or in the grain or products produced from conventional or organic crops, is another factor that can affect general public acceptance of these traits. Public concern can affect the timing of, and whether we are able to obtain, government approvals for our products. Even after approvals are granted, public concern may lead to increased regulation or legislation or litigation against government regulators concerning prior regulatory approvals, which could affect our sales and results of operations, including by affecting planting approvals, and which may adversely affect sales of our products to farmers, including due to their concerns about available markets for the sale of crops or other products including those derived from biotechnology. In addition, opponents of agricultural biotechnology have attacked farmers’ fields and facilities used by agricultural biotechnology companies, and may launch future attacks against farmers’ fields and our field testing sites and research, production, or other facilities, which could affect our sales and our costs.The successful development and commercialization of our pipeline products will be necessary for our growth.We use advanced breeding technologies to produce hybrids and varieties with superior performance in farmers’ fields, and we use biotechnology to introduce traits that enhance specific characteristics of our crops. We use advanced analytics, software tools, mobile communications and new planting and monitoring equipment to provide agronomic recommendations to growers. We also research biological products to protect farmers’ crops from pests and diseases and enhance plant productivity and fertility, and we research chemical products to protect against crop pests. There are a number of reasons why new product concepts in these areas may be abandoned, including greater than anticipated development costs, technical difficulties, regulatory obstacles, competition, inability to prove the original concept, lack of demand and the need to divert focus, from time to time, to other initiatives with perceived opportunities for better returns. The processes of breeding, biotechnology trait discovery and development and trait integration are lengthy, and a very small percentage of the genes and germplasm we test is selected for commercialization. The length of time and the risk associated with the breeding and biotech pipelines are interlinked because both are required as a package for commercial success in markets where biotech traits are approved for growers. In countries where biotech traits are not approved for widespread use, our sales depend on our germplasm. Commercial success frequently depends on being the first company to the market, and many of our competitors are also making considerable investments in similar new biotechnology, improved germplasm products, biological and chemical products, and agronomic recommendation products. Consequently, if we are not able to fund extensive research and development activities and deliver new products to the markets we serve on a timely basis, our growth and operations will be harmed.Adverse outcomes in legal proceedings could subject us to substantial damages and adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.From time to time, we have been involved in major lawsuits concerning intellectual property, biotechnology, torts, contracts, antitrust allegations and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations. Pending and future lawsuits and governmental inquiries and investigations may have outcomes that may be significant to our results of operations in the period recognized or limit our ability to engage in our business activities. While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover any liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. In addition, pursuant to the Separation Agreement, we are required to indemnify Pharmacia for certain liabilities that are primarily related to Pharmacia’s former chemical and agricultural businesses. We have recorded reserves for potential liabilities where we believe the liability to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may be materially different from this estimate. The degree to which we may ultimately be responsible for the particular matters reflected in the reserve is uncertain.9MONSANTO COMPANY 2016 FORM 10-KOur operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, which could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability.We engage in manufacturing, seed production, research and development and sales in many parts of the world. Although we have operations in virtually every region, our sales outside the United States in fiscal year 2016 were principally to customers in Brazil, Argentina, Canada and Mexico. Accordingly, developments in those parts of the world generally have a more significant effect on our operations than developments in other places. Our operations outside the United States are subject to special risks and restrictions, including: fluctuations in currency values and foreign-currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations; changes in local political or economic conditions; governmental pricing directives; import and trade restrictions; import or export licensing requirements and trade policy; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds; and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad. Acts of terror or war may impair our ability to operate in particular countries or regions, and may impede the flow of goods and services between countries. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or it could become more expensive for them to purchase imported products in their local currency or sell their commodity at prevailing international prices, and we may be unable to collect receivables from such customers. Further, changes in exchange rates may affect our net income, the book value of our assets outside the United States and our shareowners’ equity. We may pursue transactions that have risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We have completed acquisitions, investments and other transactions and may pursue additional transactions. These transactions involve risks and uncertainties. We must fit them into our long-term growth strategies to generate sufficient value to justify their cost. These transactions also present other challenges, including geographical coordination, personnel integration and retention of key management personnel, systems integration and the reconciliation of corporate cultures. Those operations could divert management’s attention from our business or cause a temporary interruption of or loss of momentum in our business and the loss of key personnel. These transactions may also cause us to assume liabilities, such as ongoing lawsuits, and may subject us to litigation. In addition, we may incur debt in the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, or for other purposes. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our leverage and cost of borrowing and potentially lower our credit ratings.Fluctuations in commodity prices can increase our costs and decrease our sales.We contract production with multiple growers at fair value and retain the seed in inventory until it is sold. These purchases constitute a significant portion of the manufacturing costs for our seeds. Additionally, our chemical manufacturing operations use chemical intermediates and energy, which are subject to increases in price as the costs of oil and natural gas increase. Accordingly, increases in commodity prices may negatively affect our cost of goods sold or cause us to increase seed or chemical prices, which could adversely affect our sales. Where practical, we use hedging strategies and raw material supply agreements that contain terms designed to mitigate the risk of short-term changes in commodity prices. However, we are unable to avoid the risk of medium- and long-term increases. Farmers’ incomes are also affected by commodity prices; as a result, fluctuations in commodity prices could have an impact on farmers’ purchasing decisions and negatively affect their ability and decisions to purchase our seed and chemical products.Compliance with quality controls and regulations affecting our manufacturing may be costly, and failure to comply may result in decreased sales, penalties and remediation obligations.Because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our manufacturing processes and engage in mining operations, we are subject to operational risks, including the potential for unintended environmental contamination, which could lead to potential personal injury claims, remediation expenses and penalties. Should a catastrophic event occur at any of our facilities, we could face significant reconstruction or remediation costs, penalties, third party liabilities and loss of production capacity, which could affect our sales. In addition, lapses in quality or other manufacturing controls could affect our sales and result in claims for defective products.Our ability to match our production to the level of product demanded by farmers or our licensed customers has a significant effect on our sales, costs and growth potential.Farmers’ decisions are affected by market, economic and weather conditions that are not known in advance. Failure to provide distributors with enough inventories of our products will reduce our current sales. However, product inventory levels at our distributors may reduce sales in future periods, as those distributor inventories are worked down. In addition, inadequate liquidity of distributors could affect distributors’ abilities to pay for our products and, therefore, affect our sales or our ability to collect on our receivables. Global glyphosate producers have the capacity to supply the market, but global 10MONSANTO COMPANY 2016 FORM 10-Kdynamics including demand, environmental regulation compliance and raw material availability can cause fluctuations in the supply and the price of generic products. We expect the fluctuation in global production will impact the selling price and margin of Roundup brands and our third-party sourcing business. We depend on the availability of certain key raw materials used in our glyphosate production from single or limited major suppliers. If a major disruption in key raw materials were to occur, it could have a significant effect on our production, sales and costs.Higher levels of indebtedness and entering into the Merger Agreement may reduce our financial flexibility and the amount of funds available for other business purposes and may adversely affect our financial condition.We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness since announcing a $10 billion share repurchase authorization in June 2014, which, in turn, has resulted in higher levels of interest costs. Interest costs related to the increased debt are substantial and impact working capital, liquidity and cash flow. Entering into the Merger Agreement could also limit or increase the cost of the short- and long-term financing options available. Our increased level of indebtedness and related covenants and entering into the Merger Agreement could cause adverse effects, including: reducing funds available; limiting access to short- and long-term debt financing; increasing the cost of short- and long-term debt financing; weakening our short- and long-term credit ratings; and creating more restrictive financial covenants that limit financial and operating flexibility. In addition, we regularly extend credit to our customers in certain areas of the world to enable them to acquire crop production products and seeds at the beginning of their growing seasons. Due to these credit practices as well as the seasonality of our sales and costs, we may need to issue short-term debt at certain times of the year to fund cash flow requirements. Levels of short-term debt may be greater to the extent that we are unable to collect customer receivables when due.Our results of operations and financial condition may be significantly affected by disruptions caused by weather, natural disasters, accidents and security breaches, including cybersecurity incidents.Weather and field conditions can adversely affect the timing of crop planting, acreage planted, crop yields and commodity prices. In turn, seed production volumes, quality and cost may also be adversely affected which could impact our sales and profitability. Natural disasters or industrial accidents could also affect our facilities, or those of our major suppliers or major customers, which could affect our costs and our ability to meet supply requirements. One of our major U.S. glyphosate manufacturing facilities is located in Luling, Louisiana, which is an area subject to hurricanes. In addition, several of our key raw material and utility suppliers have production assets in the U.S. Gulf Coast region and are also susceptible to damage risk from hurricanes. Hawaii and Puerto Rico, which are also subject to hurricanes, are major seeds and traits locations for our pipeline products. Security breaches and disruptions to our information technology systems could seriously harm our operations. We utilize and critically rely upon information technology systems in all aspects of our business, including increasingly large amounts of data to support our products and advance our research and development pipeline. We have experienced cybersecurity attacks and IT system outages that have not had a material impact on our financial results, but it is not possible to predict the impact of future incidents. Failure to effectively prevent, detect and recover from the increasing number and sophistication of information security threats could result in theft, misuse, modification and destruction of information, including trade secrets and confidential business information, and cause business disruptions, delays in research and development, reputational damage, and third-party claims, which could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the MergerThe announcement and pendency of the Merger with Bayer could adversely affect our business, financial results and/or operations.The announcement and pendency of the Merger could cause disruptions and create uncertainty surrounding our business. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the transaction is consummated, and could cause suppliers, customers and other counterparties to change existing business relationships. Changes to existing business relationships, including termination or modification, could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flow, as well as the market price of our common stock. We are also subject to restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the consummation of the transaction as provided in the Merger Agreement, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to acquire other businesses and assets, sell, transfer or license our assets, make investments, enter into certain contracts, repurchase or issue securities, pay dividends in excess of certain thresholds, make capital expenditures, undertake certain licenses or other transactions relating to intellectual property, amend our organizational documents and incur indebtedness. These restrictions could prevent or delay the pursuit of strategic corporate or business opportunities, result in our inability to respond effectively and/or timely to competitive pressures, industry developments, developments relating to our customers and suppliers, and future 11MONSANTO COMPANY 2016 FORM 10-Kopportunities, and may as a result or otherwise have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.In addition, management and financial resources have been diverted and will continue to be diverted towards the completion of the Merger. The company has incurred, and expects to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the transaction. These costs could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operation of the company prior to the consummation of the transaction.We may not complete the Merger with Bayer within the time frame we anticipate or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and/or operations.There can be no assurance that the Merger with Bayer will occur. Completion of the Merger is subject to a number of closing conditions, including Monsanto shareowner approval and receipt of required regulatory approvals. We can provide no assurance that all required approvals will be obtained or that all closing conditions will be satisfied, and, if all required approvals are obtained and the closing conditions are satisfied, we can provide no assurance as to the terms, conditions and timing of such approvals or the timing of the completion of the Merger. In addition, the Merger Agreement may be terminated under certain specified circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in the recommendation of the company’s Board of Directors or a termination of the Merger Agreement by us to enter into an agreement for a “Superior Proposal,” as defined in the Merger Agreement.If the transaction is not consummated within the expected time frame or at all, we may be subject to a number of material risks. The price of our common stock may decline to the extent that current market prices reflect a market assumption that the Merger will be completed. In addition, some costs related to the Merger must be paid whether or not the Merger is completed, and we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed Merger, as well as the direction of management resources towards the Merger, for which we will have received little or no benefit if the closing of the Merger does not occur. Many of the expenses, fees and costs will be payable by us even if the Merger is not completed and may relate to activities that we would not have undertaken other than in connection with the Merger. We may also experience negative reactions from our shareowners and other investors, employees, suppliers, customers, distributors, licensors and licensees. In addition, in specified circumstances, we could be required to reimburse certain expenses of Bayer or pay Bayer a termination fee of up to $1.85 billion. If the Merger Agreement is not adopted by our shareowners, or if the Merger is not consummated for any other reason, there can be no assurance that any other transaction acceptable to us will be offered or that our business, prospects or results of operations will not be adversely affected.In addition, if the Merger is not completed, our Board of Directors may review and consider various alternatives available to us, including, among others, continuing as a public company with no material changes to our business or capital structure, seeking an acquisition or attempting to implement another transaction that is similar to the Merger. These alternative transactions may involve various additional risks to our business, including, among others, distraction of our management team and associated expenses as described above in connection with the proposed Merger, and risks and uncertainties related to our ability to consummate any such alternative transaction and other variables which may adversely affect our operations. During the pendency of the Merger, however, the Merger Agreement contains provisions that restrict our ability to entertain alternative transactions, which could discourage or make it difficult for a third party to propose or complete any such alternative transaction with us.ITEM 1B