. Risk Factors.We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law.2Table of ContentsPART IItem 1. BusinessOverviewMarathon Petroleum Corporation (“MPC”) was incorporated in Delaware on November 9, 2009. We have 126 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the Ohio Oil Company in 1887. We are one of the largest independent petroleum product refiners, marketers and transporters in the United States. Our operations consist of three business segments:•Refining & Marketing—refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United States, purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. We sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our Speedway® business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate Marathon® retail outlets;•Speedway—sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the Midwest, primarily through Speedway convenience stores; and•Pipeline Transportation—transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas and includes the aggregated operations of MPLX LP and MPC’s retained pipeline assets and investments.See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 10 for operating segment and geographic financial information, which is incorporated herein by reference.Corporate History and StructureMPC was incorporated in 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of Marathon Oil Corporation (“Marathon Oil”). On May 25, 2011, the Marathon Oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its Refining, Marketing & Transportation Business (“RM&T Business”) into an independent, publicly traded company, MPC, through the distribution of MPC common stock to the stockholders of Marathon Oil common stock. In accordance with a separation and distribution agreement between Marathon Oil and MPC, the distribution of MPC common stock was made on June 30, 2011, with Marathon Oil stockholders receiving one share of MPC common stock for every two shares of Marathon Oil common stock held (the “Spinoff”). Following the Spinoff, Marathon Oil retained no ownership interest in MPC, and each company had separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. All subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by Marathon Oil to MPC remained with Marathon Oil and, together with Marathon Oil, are referred to as the “Marathon Oil Companies.” On July 1, 2011, our common stock began trading “regular-way” on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the ticker symbol “MPC.” Recent DevelopmentsOn February 1, 2013, we acquired from BP Products North America Inc. and BP Pipelines (North America) Inc. (collectively, “BP”) the 451,000 barrel per calendar day refinery in Texas City, Texas, three intrastate natural gas liquid pipelines originating at the refinery, four light product terminals, branded-jobber marketing contract assignments for the supply of approximately 1,200 branded sites, a 1,040 megawatt electric cogeneration facility and a 50 thousand barrels per day ("mbpd") allocation of space on the Colonial Pipeline. We refer to these assets as the “Galveston Bay Refinery and Related Assets.” The operating statistics included in this section do not include these assets for time periods prior to the acquisition. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 5 for additional information on the acquisition of these assets. On August 1, 2013, we acquired from Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. its interests in three ethanol companies for $75 million. Under the purchase agreement, we acquired an additional 24 percent interest in The Andersons Clymers Ethanol LLC ("TACE"), bringing our ownership interest to 60 percent; a 34 percent interest in The Andersons Ethanol Investment LLC ("TAEI"), which holds a 50 percent ownership in The Andersons Marathon Ethanol LLC ("TAME"), bringing our direct and indirect ownership interest in TAME to 67 percent; and a 40 percent interest in The Andersons Albion Ethanol LLC ("TAAE"), which owns an ethanol production facility in Albion, Michigan. On October 1, 2013, our ownership interest in TAAE increased to 43 percent as a result of TAAE acquiring one of the owner's interest. We hold a noncontrolling interest in each of these entities and account for them using the equity method of accounting since the minority owners have substantive participating rights.3Table of ContentsIn 2012, we formed MPLX LP (“MPLX”), a master limited partnership, to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. On October 31, 2012, MPLX completed its initial public offering of 19,895,000 common units, which represented the sale by us of a 26.4 percent interest in MPLX. We own a 73.6 percent interest in MPLX, including the two percent general partner interest, and we consolidate this entity for financial reporting purposes since we have a controlling financial interest. Headquartered in Findlay, Ohio, MPLX’s assets as of December 31, 2013 consisted of a 56 percent general partner interest in MPLX Pipe Line Holdings LP (“Pipe Line Holdings”), which owns a network of common carrier crude oil and product pipeline systems and associated storage assets in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions of the United States, and a 100 percent interest in a butane storage cavern in West Virginia. We own the remaining 44 percent limited partner interest in Pipe Line Holdings. The operating statistics in this section include 100 percent of these assets for all time periods presented. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 4 for additional information on MPLX.On February 27, 2014, we announced that an additional 13 percent of Pipe Line Holdings will be sold to MPLX effective on March 1, 2014 for $310 million. Subsequent to this transaction, MPLX will own a 69 percent general partner interest in Pipe Line Holdings and we will own a 31 percent limited partner interest. MPLX intends to finance this transaction with $40 million of cash on-hand and by borrowing $270 million on its revolving credit agreement. Our Competitive StrengthsHigh Quality Asset BaseWe believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in the Midwest and the fourth largest in the United States based on crude oil refining capacity. We own a seven-plant refinery network, with approximately 1.7 million barrels per calendar day (“mmbpcd”) of crude oil throughput capacity. Our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude oil, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, specialty chemicals and other refined products.Strategic LocationThe geographic locations of our refineries and our extensive midstream distribution system provide us with strategic advantages. Located in Petroleum Administration for Defense District (“PADD”) II and PADD III, which consist of states in the Midwest and the Gulf Coast regions of the United States, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, Canadian and other foreign sources, which provides us with flexibility to optimize crude supply costs. For example, geographic proximity to various United States shale oil regions and Canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries access to price-advantaged crude oils and lower transportation costs than certain of our competitors. Our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the United States quickly and cost-effectively. 4Table of Contents *As of December 31, 2013Extensive Midstream Distribution NetworksOur assets give us extensive flexibility and optionality to respond promptly to dynamic market conditions, including weather-related and marketplace disruptions. We believe the relative scale of our transportation and distribution assets and operations distinguishes us from other refining and marketing companies. We currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of crude oil and products pipelines. Through our ownership interests in MPLX and Pipe Line Holdings, we are one of the largest petroleum pipeline companies in the United States on the basis of total volume delivered. We also own one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in the United States, as well as trucking and rail assets. We operate this system in coordination with our refining and marketing network, which enables us to optimize feedstock and raw material supplies and refined product distribution, and further allows for important economies of scale across our system.Attractive Growth OpportunitiesWe believe we have attractive growth opportunities. Over the next three years, we expect to invest approximately $630 million in midstream assets that are part of our Refining & Marketing segment, approximately $2.3 billion in our Pipeline Transportation segment and approximately $925 million to grow our Speedway segment. Our Refining & Marketing segment's midstream investments include increasing our capacity to process condensate from the Utica Shale region at our Canton, Ohio 5Table of Contentsand Catlettsburg, Kentucky refineries. Our Pipeline Transportation segment investments include the opportunity to acquire equity interests in two pipeline projects that will transport crude oil from the growing North American hydrocarbon production to our refineries and building a pipeline to connect the Utica Shale production to our Canton refinery. Our planned Speedway segment investments include constructing new convenience stores and rebuilding existing locations. We also anticipate acquiring high quality stores through opportunistic acquisitions. Part of Speedway's growth strategy is to expand into new contiguous markets, including western Pennsylvania and Tennessee. In addition, we have projects at our refineries to enhance refining margins, expand our export capacity, increase our distillate production and increase our capacity to process condensates and light crude oils.General Partner and Sponsor of MPLXOur investment in MPLX provides us an efficient vehicle to invest in organic projects and pursue acquisitions of midstream assets. MPLX’s significant liquidity and borrowing capacity provides us a strong foundation to execute our strategy for growing our midstream logistics business. Our role as the general partner allows us to maintain strategic control of the assets so we can continue to optimize our refinery feedstock and distribution networks. We have an extensive portfolio of assets that can potentially be sold to MPLX, providing MPLX with a competitive advantage. As of December 31, 2013, these assets included:•the remaining 44 percent limited partner interest in Pipe Line Holdings, of which an additional 13 percent is approved to be sold to MPLX effective on March 1, 2014;•approximately 5,400 miles of crude oil and products pipeline that MPC owns, leases or has ownership interest;•64 owned and operated light product terminals with approximately 21 million barrels of storage capacity and 194 loading lanes;•19 owned and operated asphalt terminals with approximately 4 million barrels of storage capacity and 68 loading lanes;•one leased and two non-operated, partially-owned light product terminals;•18 owned or leased inland towboats and 200 owned or leased inland barges;•2,165 owned or leased railcars;•59 million barrels of tank storage capacity at our refineries;•25 rail and 24 truck loading racks at our refineries; and•7 owned and 11 non-owned docks at our refineries.We broadly estimate these assets can generate annual earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of $800 million. We continue to focus resources on growing this portfolio of assets, including investments in the Sandpiper and Southern Access Extension pipeline projects. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information on these pipeline investments.Future asset sales to MPLX, along with sales of our limited partner interests in MPLX, will be driven by our desired distributable cash flow growth profile as well as strategic needs as they develop over time, including generating funds to support our base dividend, share repurchases and investment activities.Competitively Positioned Marketing OperationsWe are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. We have two strong retail brands: Speedway® and Marathon®. We believe our 1,478 Speedway® convenience stores, which we operate through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Speedway LLC, comprise the fourth largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the United States. The Marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand in the Midwest and Southeast regions of the United States, and was available through approximately 5,200 retail outlets operated by independent entrepreneurs in 18 states as of December 31, 2013. In addition, as part of the acquisition of the Galveston Bay Refinery and Related Assets, we have retail marketing contracts where we continue to convert retail outlets to the Marathon brand. We believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost.6Table of ContentsEstablished Track Record of Profitability and Diversified Income StreamWe have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the refining cycle. We believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. Income generated by our Speedway and Pipeline Transportation segments is less sensitive to business cycles while our Refining & Marketing segment enables us to generate significant income and cash flow when market conditions are more favorable.Strong Financial PositionAs of December 31, 2013, we had $2.29 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $3.8 billion in unused committed borrowing facilities, excluding MPLX’s credit facility. We also had $3.40 billion of debt at year-end, which represented only 23 percent of our total capitalization. This combination of strong liquidity and manageable leverage provides financial flexibility and allows us to fund our growth projects and to pursue our business strategies.Our Business StrategiesAchieve and Maintain Top-Tier Safety and Environmental PerformanceWe remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continuous improvement in our safety record across all of our operations. We have a history of safe and reliable operations, which was demonstrated again in 2013 with a strong performance compared to the industry average. Four of our refineries have earned designation as a U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) Voluntary Protection Program (“VPP”) Star site. In addition, we remain committed to environmental stewardship by continuing to improve the efficiency of our operations while proactively meeting our regulatory requirements. For example, since taking over the Galveston Bay refinery, we have improved environmental performance by reducing designated environmental incidents by approximately 80 percent compared to 2012.Grow Higher-Valued, Stable Cash Flow BusinessesWe intend to allocate significantly more capital to grow our midstream and retail businesses, which typically have more predictable and stable income and cash flows compared to our refining operations. We believe investors assign a higher value to businesses with stable cash flows. Over the next three years, we expect to invest approximately $630 million in midstream assets that are part of our Refining & Marketing segment, approximately $2.3 billion in our Pipeline Transportation segment and approximately $925 million on growing our Speedway segment. By contrast, our total investment from 2011 through 2013 was $229 million in midstream assets that are part of our Refining & Marketing segment, $566 million in our Pipeline Transportation segment and $800 million in our Speedway segment.We expect there will be significant investments in infrastructure to connect growing North American crude oil production with existing refining assets and to move refined products to wholesale and retail marketing customers. We intend to aggressively participate in this infrastructure build-out and MPLX will be the entity through which we expect to grow our midstream business. We intend to increase revenue on the MPLX network of pipeline systems through higher utilization of existing assets, by capitalizing on organic investment opportunities that may arise from the growth of MPC’s operations and from increased third-party activity in MPLX’s areas of operations. Through MPLX, we also plan to pursue acquisitions of midstream assets both within our existing geographic footprint and in new areas.We intend to grow Speedway’s sales and profitability by focusing on organic growth through constructing new stores, rebuilding old stores, acquiring high quality stores through opportunistic acquisitions and continuous improvement of existing operations. For example, we have identified numerous opportunities for new convenience stores or store rebuilds in our existing market. In addition, we began expanding Speedway into new contiguous markets of western Pennsylvania and Tennessee in 2013 and are actively acquiring real estate in western Pennsylvania and Tennessee to be in a position to accelerate growth over the next several years. In addition, our industry-leading Speedy Rewards® customer loyalty program, which has more than 3.7 million active members, provides us with a unique competitive advantage and opportunity to increase our Speedway customer base with existing and new Speedway locations.Deliver Top Quartile Refining PerformanceOur refineries are well positioned to benefit from the growing crude oil and condensate production in North America, including the Bakken, Eagle Ford and Utica Shale regions, along with the Canadian oil sands. We are also well positioned to export distillates, gasoline and other products as the demand from various markets, such as Latin America and Europe, continues to grow.7Table of ContentsWe intend to enhance our margins in the Refining & Marketing segment by increasing our condensate and light crude oil processing capacity, growing our distillate production and expanding our exports. For example, we have projects underway to increase condensate processing capacity at our Canton and Catlettsburg refineries, to increase light crude oil processing capacity at our Robinson, Illinois refinery, to increase distillate production at our Garyville, Louisiana; Galveston Bay and Robinson refineries and to expand the export capacity at our Garyville and Galveston Bay refineries. In addition, we are evaluating a residual fuel hydrocracker project that we expect will increase Garyville's ultra-low-sulfur diesel ("ULSD") production by 28 mbpd and lower feedstock costs. We are also evaluating three projects to increase distillate production at our Galveston Bay refinery. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our existing asset base, with an emphasis on increasing distillate production and export capabilities and opportunities at our Galveston Bay refinery.Sustain Focus on Shareholder ReturnsWe intend to continue our focus on the return of capital to shareholders in the form of a strong and growing base dividend, supplemented by share repurchases. We have increased our quarterly dividend by 110 percent since becoming a stand-alone company in June 2011 and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling $6.0 billion. Through open market purchases and two accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) programs, we repurchased 18 percent of our outstanding common shares since February 2012 for approximately $4.14 billion. After the effects of these repurchases, $1.86 billion of the $6.0 billion total authorization was available for future repurchases as of December 31, 2013.Increase Assured Sales Volumes at our Marathon Brand and Speedway LocationsWe consider assured sales as those sales we make to Marathon brand customers, our Speedway operations and to our wholesale customers with whom we have required minimum volume sales contracts. We believe having assured sales brings ratability to our distribution systems, provides a solid base to enhance our overall supply reliability and allows us to efficiently and effectively optimize our operations between our refineries, our pipelines and our terminals. The Marathon brand has been a consistent vehicle for sales volume growth in existing and contiguous markets. The acquisition of the Galveston Bay Refinery and Related Assets provides us with opportunities to further expand our Southeast market presence. As a result of this acquisition, we have retail marketing contracts where we continue to convert retail outlets to the Marathon brand, which puts us in position to take advantage of opportunities with premier jobbers and to significantly expand our brand presence in the Southeast. We also intend to grow Speedway gasoline and distillate sales volumes through internal capital program growth projects and acquisitions that complement our existing store network, including the continuing expansion into Pennsylvania and Tennessee.Utilize and Enhance our High Quality Employee WorkforceWe plan to utilize our high quality employee workforce by continuing to leverage our commercial skills. In addition, we plan to enhance our workforce through selective hiring practices and effective training programs on safety, environmental stewardship and other professional and technical skills.The above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to our competitive strengths and business strategies, including our expected investments, share repurchase authorizations, pursuit of potential acquisitions and other growth opportunities as well as the earnings potential of our midstream assets outside of MPLX and the anticipated sale of an additional 13 percent interest in Pipe Line Holdings to MPLX. There can be no assurance that we will be successful, in whole or in part, in carrying out our business strategies, including our expected investments, share repurchase program or pursuit of potential acquisitions and other growth opportunities, or that our midstream assets outside of MPLX will achieve expected earnings or that the anticipated sale of the 13 percent interest in Pipe Line Holdings will occur. Factors that could affect our investments include, but are not limited to, the actual amounts invested, which could differ materially from those estimated, and our success in making such investments. Factors that could affect the share repurchase authorizations and the timing of any repurchases include, but are not limited to, business conditions, availability of liquidity and the market price of our common stock. Factors that could affect the pursuit of potential acquisitions and other growth opportunities include, but are not limited to, our ability to implement and realize the benefits and synergies of our strategic initiatives, availability of liquidity, actions taken by competitors, regulatory approvals and operating performance. Factors that could affect the earnings of our midstream assets outside of MPLX include, but are not limited to, the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices and demand for crude oil, refined products, feedstocks or other hydrocarbon-based products and volatility in and/or degradation of market and industry conditions. Factors that could affect the sale of an additional 13 percent interest in Pipe Line Holdings to MPLX include, but are not limited to, the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. These factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For additional information on forward-looking statements and risks that can affect our business, see “Disclosures Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and . Risk Factors. We estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products we produce. Additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable and cost effective.Our operations are also subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include, among others, the Clean Air Act with respect to air emissions, the Clean Water Act with respect to water discharges, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA-90”) with respect to oil pollution and response. In addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. New laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted by various regulatory agencies on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with any new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until they are finalized.18Table of ContentsFor a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Environmental Matters and Compliance Costs.AirWe are subject to substantial requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) issued an “endangerment finding” in 2009 that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. Related to this endangerment finding, in April 2010, the EPA finalized a greenhouse gas emissions standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). The endangerment finding along with the mobile source standard and the EPA’s determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act, and the EPA’s so-called “tailoring rule” led to permitting of larger stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions, including refineries. Legal challenges filed against these EPA actions were overruled by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. In response, several parties sought further review by the U.S. Supreme Court, which heard oral arguments on the challenges in February 2014 with an expected decision by mid-2014. The EPA has proposed New Source Performance Standards for greenhouse gas emissions for new electric utility-generating units and has announced plans to regulate existing and modified units as well. This could impact electric rates for all our operations and could impose new requirements on the combined heat and power unit we operate. It is also likely that the EPA will propose refinery-specific New Source Performance Standards for greenhouse gas emissions sometime in the future. Congress may again consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. Private parties have sued utilities and other emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but we have not been named in any of those lawsuits. Private-party litigation is also pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. Although there may be an adverse financial impact associated with any legislation, regulation, litigation or other action (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and potential reduced demand for certain refined products made from crude oil), the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented.In 2013, the Obama administration developed the social cost of carbon (“SCC"). The SCC is to be used by the EPA and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. The SCC was first issued in 2010, and in 2013, the Obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. In response to the regulated community and Congress’ critiques in how the SCC was developed, the Office of Management and Budget recently announced the opportunity to comment on the SCC. While the impact of a higher SCC in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations.The EPA has reviewed and has revised, or will propose to revise, the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (“NAAQS”) for criteria air pollutants. The NAAQS are subject to multiple court challenges, making final compliance plans uncertain. The EPA promulgated a revised ozone standard in March 2008 and commenced a multi-year process to develop the implementing rules required by the Clean Air Act. In 2013, the EPA is expected to propose a stricter ozone standard as part of the EPA’s periodic review of that standard. On July 23, 2013, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision on the 2008 ozone NAAQS lawsuit. The Court upheld the primary standard, but remanded the secondary NAAQS standard to the EPA on the grounds that the EPA had not justified setting the secondary standard at the same level as the primary standard. On remand, the EPA could address the court’s ruling by proposing a separate secondary standard that is more stringent than the primary standard. Also, in 2010, the EPA adopted new short-term standards for nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide, and in December 2012 issued a more stringent fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) standard. We cannot reasonably estimate the final financial impact of these proposed and revised NAAQS standards until the standards are finalized, individual state implementing rules are established and judicial challenges are resolved.The EPA finalized the Boiler and Process Heater Maximum Achievable Control Technology (“Boiler MACT”) in March 2011 with work practice standards that are applicable to refinery and natural gas fired equipment. Subsequently, in January 2013 the EPA made certain revisions to the March 2011 final rule in response to petitions for reconsideration. Currently, litigation is pending in the D.C. Circuit Court on both the 2011 and 2013 rulemakings. We anticipate litigation to continue through 2014. Final financial impacts of the Boiler MACT rule cannot be determined at this time because of the ongoing litigation, which could affect the final rule. On July 20, 2011, the EPA proposed a rule regarding cooling water intake structures which could affect some of our refineries. The rule would place new requirements on these structures. The EPA has requested and received public comments on the rule as proposed, including comments on the types of structures covered by the rule. Until the rule is issued final, we will not know whether the rule will apply to refinery intakes and the costs of complying with the rule.In 2014, the EPA is expected to propose a Refinery Sector Rule. This rule may require various refinery unit modifications, additional controls, lower emission standards and ambient air monitoring. We cannot reasonably estimate the financial impact of this rule until it is proposed and finalized.19Table of ContentsWaterWe maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the Clean Water Act and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance efforts. In addition, we are regulated under OPA-90, which among other requirements, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. Also, in case of any such release, OPA-90 requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages. OPA-90 also provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. We have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by OPA-90 and we have established Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements.Additionally, OPA-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in U.S. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from U.S. service. All of the barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of OPA-90. We operate facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. Some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to OPA-90, but with expanded liability provisions, including provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility.Solid WasteWe continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of underground storage tanks (“USTs”) containing regulated substances. We have ongoing RCRA treatment and disposal operations at two of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. Ongoing RCRA-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows.RemediationWe own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from USTs have occurred. Federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. The enforcement of the UST regulations under RCRA has been delegated to the states, which administer their own UST programs. Our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the laws and regulations of the states in which we operate. A portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state UST reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. We also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. Penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance.Claims under CERCLA and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Mileage Standards, Renewable Fuels and Other Fuels RequirementsIn 2007, the U.S. Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act (“EISA”), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the United States by model year 2020, and contains a second Renewable Fuel Standard (“RFS2”). In August 2012, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025 (the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government’s current estimate but will require further rulemaking). New or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations.20Table of ContentsThe RFS2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the U.S. to reach 16.55 billion gallons in 2013 and increases to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. In the near term, the RFS2 will be satisfied primarily with ethanol blended into gasoline. However, vehicle, regulatory and infrastructure constraints could limit the ability to blend significantly more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline that could be required if the RFS2 standards are not modified. The RFS2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. Within the overall 36.0 billion gallon RFS2, EISA established an advanced biofuel RFS2 volume of 2.0 billion gallons in 2012 increasing to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. Subsets within the advanced biofuel RFS2 include biomass-based diesel, which was set at 1.0 billion gallons in 2012, 1.28 billion gallons in 2013, and at least 1.0 billion gallons in 2014 through 2022 (to be determined by the EPA through future rulemaking), and cellulosic biofuel, which was set at 0.5 billion gallons in 2012 and 1.0 billion gallons in 2013, increasing to 16.0 billion gallons by 2022. In 2013, the EPA used its waiver authority under the Clean Air Act to reduce the amount of cellulosic biofuel required under the statute from 1.0 billion gallons to 6 million gallons. Currently, litigation is on-going in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals with respect to the EPA’s determination of the 2013 cellulosic biofuel requirement. Subsequently, industry has requested the EPA to use its waiver authority for 2014, requesting reductions for total renewable fuel, advanced biofuels and cellulosic biofuels volumetric obligations.The EPA has issued a proposed rule for 2014 requirements that is in the comment period. This proposed rule has substantially reduced the RFS requirements from the statutory numbers as follows: total renewables has been reduced from 18.15 to 15.21 billion gallons, the advanced requirement has been reduced from 3.75 to 2.20 billion gallons, the biomass-based diesel requirement has remained flat from 2013 at 1.28 billion gallons, and the cellulosic requirement has been reduced from 1.75 billion to 17 million gallons. If these proposed requirements become final, it will allow the obligated parties to comply in 2014 without needing any substantial volumes of 85 percent ethanol-blended or 15 percent ethanol-blended gasolines and postpone the issues and concerns of having to blend ethanol past the 10 percent ethanol “blendwall” at least for 2014. The future of the RFS still remains undecided and is in need of legislative re-write or repeal to provide a stable business platform for the obligated parties.The advanced biofuels programs will present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties or purchase credits from the EPA to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel, with potentially uncertain supplies of these new fuels. Additionally, the EPA did not finalize the 2013 RFS2 renewable fuel obligations until August 2013. Therefore, it is uncertain how industry will comply with meeting the advanced biofuels obligation until compliance reports are submitted in June 2014. In 2012 and 2013, the EPA also discovered that 173 million biodiesel renewable identification numbers (“RINs”) used to meet the annual requirement for that fuel had been fraudulently created and sold to unsuspecting third parties, including MPC. The EPA proposed a rule establishing a quality assurance program for RINs purchased to help meet the annual biofuel requirements under the RFS2 program. This rule should be finalized in 2014 and is aimed at reducing the risks that RINs are fraudulently created or sold. We have already instituted internal procedures to help mitigate this risk.We made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability to help comply with the biodiesel RFS2 requirement by buying and blending biodiesel into our refined diesel product, and by buying needed biodiesel RINs in the EPA-created biodiesel RINs market.On October 13, 2010, the EPA issued a partial waiver decision under the Clean Air Act to allow for an increase in the amount of ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from 10 percent (“E10”) to 15 percent (“E15”) for 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. On January 21, 2011, the EPA issued a second waiver for the use of E15 in vehicles model year 2001-2006. There are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, which need to be addressed before E15 can be marketed for use in traditional gasoline engines.There will be compliance costs and uncertainties regarding how we will comply with the various requirements contained in EISA and related regulations. We may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels.On March 29, 2013, the EPA announced its proposed Tier 3 fuel standards. The proposed Tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 parts per million beginning in calendar year 2017. The EPA is expected to finalize the Tier 3 fuel standards in 2014. Until the rule is finalized and we have developed our compliance plan, we cannot reasonably estimate our compliance cost.21Table of ContentsTrademarks, Patents and LicensesOur Marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our Speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. We currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. Although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. In general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations.EmployeesWe had approximately 29,865 regular employees as of December 31, 2013, which includes approximately 20,185 employees of Speedway.Certain hourly employees at our Canton, Catlettsburg, Galveston Bay and Texas City refineries are represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers Union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2015. The International Brotherhood of Teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our Detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is scheduled to expire in 2019.Executive Officers of the RegistrantThe executive officers of MPC and their ages as of February 1, 2014, are as follows:NameAge Position with MPCGary R. Heminger60 President and Chief Executive OfficerPamela K.M. Beall57 Senior Vice President, Corporate Planning, Government & Public AffairsRichard D. Bedell59 Senior Vice President, RefiningMichael G. Braddock56 Vice President and ControllerTimothy T. Griffith44 Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations, and TreasurerJohn R. Haley57 Vice President, TaxThomas M. Kelley54 Senior Vice President, MarketingAnthony R. Kenney60 President, Speedway LLCRodney P. Nichols61 Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administrative ServicesC. Michael Palmer60 Senior Vice President, Supply, Distribution and PlanningGeorge P. Shaffner54 Senior Vice President, Transportation and LogisticsJohn S. Swearingen54 Vice President, Health, Environment, Safety & SecurityDonald C. Templin50 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerDonald W. Wehrly54 Vice President and Chief Information OfficerJ. Michael Wilder61 Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryMr. Heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Heminger was president of Marathon Petroleum Company LP (formerly known as Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC and Marathon Petroleum Company LLC), currently a wholly owned subsidiary of MPC and prior to the Spinoff, a wholly owned subsidiary of Marathon Oil. He assumed responsibility as president of Marathon Petroleum Company LP in September 2001.Ms. Beall was appointed senior vice president, Corporate Planning, Government & Public Affairs effective January 1, 2014. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Beall was vice president, Investor Relations and Government & Public Affairs beginning June 30, 2011 and was vice president, Products Supply and Optimization of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. She served as vice president of Global Procurement for Marathon Oil Company between 2007 and 2010 and prior to that as organizational vice president, Business Development—Downstream.Mr. Bedell was appointed senior vice president, Refining effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Bedell served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010 and as manager, Louisiana Refining Division beginning in 2001.Mr. Braddock was appointed vice president and controller effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Braddock was controller of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 2008 and manager, Internal Audit between 2005 and 2008.22Table of ContentsMr. Griffith was appointed vice president, Finance and Investor Relations, and treasurer effective January 1, 2014. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Griffith was vice president of Finance and treasurer beginning August 1, 2011. Mr. Griffith was vice president Investor Relations and treasurer of Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in St. Louis, Missouri, from 2008 to 2011.Mr. Haley was appointed vice president, Tax effective June 1, 2013. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Haley served as director of Tax beginning in July 2011 and as a tax manager for Marathon Oil Company beginning in 1996.Mr. Kelley was appointed senior vice president, Marketing effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Kelley served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in January 2010. Previously, he served as director of Crude Supply and Logistics for Marathon Petroleum Company LP from January 2008, and as a Brand Marketing manager for eight years prior to that.Mr. Kenney has served as president of Speedway LLC since August 2005.Mr. Nichols was appointed senior vice president, Human Resources and Administrative Services effective March 2012. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Nichols served as vice president, Human Resources and Administrative Services beginning on June 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in April 1998.Mr. Palmer was appointed senior vice president, Supply, Distribution and Planning effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Palmer served as vice president, Supply, Distribution & Planning for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. He served as Crude Supply and Logistics director for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in February 2010, and as senior vice president, Oil Sands Operations and Commercial Activities for Marathon Oil Canada Corporation beginning in 2007.Mr. Shaffner was appointed senior vice president, Transportation and Logistics effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Shaffner served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. Previously, Mr. Shaffner served as Michigan Refining Division manager beginning in October 2006.Mr. Swearingen was appointed vice president of Health, Environmental, Safety & Security effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Swearingen was president of Marathon Pipe Line LLC beginning in 2009 and the Illinois Refining Division manager beginning in November 2001.Mr. Templin was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Templin was a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996.Mr. Wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Wehrly was the manager of Information Technology Services for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 2003.Mr. Wilder was appointed vice president, general counsel and secretary effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Wilder was associate general counsel of Marathon Oil Company beginning in 2010 and general counsel and secretary of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 1997.Garry L. Peiffer, who was executive vice president of Corporate Planning and Investor & Government Relations since June 30, 2011, retired effective January 1, 2014.Available InformationGeneral information about MPC, including Corporate Governance Principles and Charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, can be found at http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers are also available in this same location.MPC uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our Investor Relations office. In addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. Information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other securities filings.23Table of ContentsItem 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us and our common stock. Some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate to the ownership of our common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Relating to our BusinessFailure to identify and manage risks inherent to our business could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations are subject to business interruption due to scheduled refinery turnarounds and to unplanned maintenance or events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, severe weather and labor disputes. Failure to identify and manage these risks could result in explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents resulting in personal injury, loss of life, environmental damage, property damage, legal liability, loss of revenue and substantial fines by governmental authorities. A substantial or extended decline in refining and marketing gross margins would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could materially and adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets. Our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. The measure of the difference between market prices for refined products and crude oil, or crack spread, is commonly used by the industry as a proxy for refining and marketing gross margins. Historically, refining and marketing gross margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile. Our margins and cost of producing gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. We do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we refine. The price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market conditions. Any overall change in crack spreads will impact our refining and marketing gross margins. Many of the factors influencing a change in crack spreads and refining and marketing gross margins are beyond our control. These factors include: •worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; •the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks to be manufactured into refined products; •the prices realized for refined products; •utilization rates of refineries; •natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; •the ability of the members of OPEC to agree to and maintain production controls; •political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; •local weather conditions; •seasonality of demand in our marketing area due to increased highway traffic in the spring and summer months; •natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes; •the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and •local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. Some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. The longer-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing gross margins are uncertain. We purchase our crude oil and other refinery feedstocks weeks before we refine them and sell the refined products. Price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. We also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. Price changes during the periods between purchasing and reselling those refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Lower refining and marketing gross margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. Significant reductions in refining and marketing gross margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets. 24Table of ContentsOur operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. We do not insure against all such potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. Our operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds and to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents or unplanned maintenance, severe weather and labor disputes. For example, pipelines provide a nearly-exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries. In such instances, a prolonged interruption in service of such a pipeline could materially and adversely affect the operations, profitability and cash flows of the impacted refinery. Explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. Damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities.We maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. Uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. In the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates. We rely on the performance of our information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We are heavily dependent on our information technology systems and network infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include data network and telecommunications, Internet access and our websites, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our business. These systems and infrastructure are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events. We also face various other cyber-security threats, including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. To protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans. There can be no guarantee such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective.The retail market is diverse and highly competitive, and very aggressive competition could adversely impact our business. We face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. Our competitors include outlets owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers, and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at very competitive prices. Several non-traditional retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants are in the retail business. These non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market and we expect their market share to grow. Because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater financial resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. In addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. These activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. Additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The development, availability and marketing of alternative and competing fuels in the retail market could adversely impact our business. We compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel needs of our consumers. Increased competition from these alternatives as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances and consumer demand could have an impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability.25Table of ContentsWe are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. We utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. In addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. A prolonged disruption of the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur losses to our business as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. We currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to enter into these types of transactions in the future. A failure of a futures commission merchant or counterparty to perform would affect these transactions. To the extent the instruments we utilize to manage these exposures are not effective, we may incur losses related to the ineffective portion of the derivative transaction or costs related to moving the derivative positions to another futures commission merchant or counterparty once a failure has occurred. We have debt obligations; therefore our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. At December 31, 2013, our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $3.4 billion. We may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. Our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: •increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; •limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; •limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; •limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. A decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and/or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historic or current operations could subject us to significant legal liability or restrict our ability to operate. We currently are defending litigation and anticipate we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. Our operations and those of our predecessors could expose us to litigation and civil claims by private plaintiffs for alleged damages related to contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. While an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in class-action litigation, large classes of plaintiffs may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. Attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. We are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. If we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. In addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26Table of ContentsA portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Approximately 38 percent of our refining employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The contracts for the hourly refinery workers at our Texas City and Detroit refineries are scheduled to expire in March 2015 and January 2019, respectively. The contracts for the hourly refinery workers at our Canton, Catlettsburg and Galveston Bay refineries are each scheduled to expire in January 2015. These contracts may be renewed at an increased cost to us, or we may experience work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements. One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, MPLX, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of MPLX, a publicly traded master limited partnership. Our control of the general partner of MPLX may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to MPLX. Any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If foreign ownership of our stock exceeds certain levels, we could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Shipping Act of 1916 and Merchant Marine Act of 1920, which we refer to collectively as the Maritime Laws, generally require that vessels engaged in U.S. coastwise trade be owned by the U.S. citizens. Among other requirements to establish citizenship, corporations that own such vessels must be owned at least 75 percent by U.S. citizens. If we fail to maintain compliance with the Maritime Laws, we would be prohibited from operating vessels in the U.S. inland waters. Such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to certain continuing contingent liabilities of Marathon Oil relating to taxes and other matters and to potential liabilities pursuant to the tax sharing agreement we entered into with Marathon Oil that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although the Spinoff occurred in mid 2011, certain liabilities of Marathon Oil could become our obligations. For example, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”) and related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the Marathon Oil consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the Spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire Marathon Oil consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. In connection with the Spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with Marathon Oil that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the Marathon Oil consolidated tax reporting group between us and Marathon Oil. However, if Marathon Oil is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. Other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. Also pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, following the Spinoff we are responsible generally for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the Spinoff. We also agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify Marathon Oil with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the Spinoff (or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under Sections 368(a) and 355 of the Code for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling relating to the Spinoff or in the tax sharing agreement. In addition, we agreed to indemnify Marathon Oil for specified tax-related liabilities associated with our 2005 acquisition of the minority interest in our refining joint venture from Ashland Inc. Our indemnification obligations to Marathon Oil and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited or subject to any cap. If we are required to indemnify Marathon Oil and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors under the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. At this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of these liabilities that have been assumed pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts. The tax liabilities described in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our company.27Table of ContentsThe Spinoff could be determined not to qualify as a tax-free transaction, and Marathon Oil and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify Marathon Oil for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. Marathon Oil received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of MPC common stock in the Spinoff qualifies as tax-free to Marathon Oil, us and Marathon Oil stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a) and related provisions of the Code. If the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then Marathon Oil would not be able to continue to rely on the ruling. We are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the assumptions or representations that were relied on in the private letter ruling to be inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect. If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling, the Spinoff were determined not to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, Marathon Oil would be subject to tax as if it had sold its shares of common stock of our company in a taxable sale for their fair market value and would recognize a taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over its tax basis in such shares. With respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed on Marathon Oil in connection with the Spinoff (and certain related transactions) as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences as set forth in the private letter ruling, we would be liable to Marathon Oil under the tax sharing agreement for any such taxes or liabilities attributable to actions taken by or with respect to us, any of our affiliates, or any person that, after the Spinoff, is our affiliate. We may be similarly liable if we breach specified representations or covenants set forth in the tax sharing agreement. If we are required to indemnify Marathon Oil for taxes incurred as a result of the Spinoff (or certain related transactions) being taxable to Marathon Oil, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have potential liabilities pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement we entered into with Marathon Oil in connection with the Spinoff that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In connection with the Spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with Marathon Oil that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions that were required to affect the Spinoff, certain conditions to the Spinoff and provisions governing the relationship between our company and Marathon Oil with respect to and resulting from the Spinoff. Among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the Spinoff, as well as certain obligations of Marathon Oil assumed by us. Our obligations to indemnify Marathon Oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. Marathon Oil also agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities retained by Marathon Oil, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Marathon Oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, that Marathon Oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations or that Marathon Oil’s insurers will cover us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the Spinoff. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Marathon Oil or its insurers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. If Marathon Oil is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to Our IndustryChanges in environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin and may result in substantial capital expenditures and operating costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Various laws and regulations are expected to impose increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin. Laws and regulations relating to the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, solid and hazardous waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, as well as those relating to public and employee safety and health and to facility security, in particular, are expected to become more stringent. The specific impact of laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources and production processes. We may be required to make expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28Table of ContentsWe believe the issue of climate change will likely continue to receive scientific and political attention, with the potential for further laws and regulations that could affect our operations. The U.S. pledge in 2009, as part of the Copenhagen Accord, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 remains in effect and was reaffirmed in the President’s 2013 Climate Action Plan. Meetings of the United Nations Climate Change Conference, however, have produced no legally binding emission reduction requirements on the U.S. Also in 2009, the EPA issued an "endangerment finding" that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. Related to the endangerment finding, in April 2010, the EPA finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). The endangerment finding, the mobile source standard and the EPA’s determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act resulted in permitting of greenhouse gas emissions at stationary sources, but as a result of the EPA’s “tailoring rule,” permit applicability was limited to larger sources such as refineries. Legal challenges were filed against these EPA actions. The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals overruled these challenges. In response, several parties sought further review by the U.S. Supreme Court which heard oral argument on the challenges in February 2014 with an expected decision by mid-2014. Additionally, as part of the EPA’s ongoing regulatory agenda we anticipate refinery-specific New Source Performance Standards may be proposed in late 2014.In 2013, the Obama administration developed the social cost of carbon ("SCC"). The SCC is to be used by the EPA and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. The SCC was first issued in 2010, and in 2013 the Obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. In response to the regulated community and Congress’ critiques in how the SCC was developed, the Office of Management and Budget recently announced the opportunity to comment on the SCC. While the impact of a higher SCC in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations.In the future, Congress may again consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. Other measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of review or implementation in the U.S. These measures include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. Private party litigation is pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. These actions could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. Although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce the demand for the products we sell and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities. The EISA, among other things, sets a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the U.S. by model year 2020 and contains a second Renewable Fuel Standard commonly referred to as RFS2. In August 2012, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025 (the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government’s current estimate but will require further rulemaking). Increases in fuel mileage standards and the increased use of renewable fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) may reduce demand for refined products. Governmental regulations encouraging the use of new or alternative fuels could also pose a competitive threat to our operations.The RFS2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the U.S. to reach 16.55 billion gallons in 2013 and increases to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. The RFS2 presents production and logistics challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining industries, and may continue to require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. The advanced biofuels program, a subset of the RFS2 requirements, creates uncertainties and presents challenges of supply, and may require that we and other refiners and other obligated parties purchase credits from the EPA to meet our obligations. Tax incentives and other subsidies have also made renewable fuels more competitive with refined products than they otherwise would have been, which may further reduce refined product margins. On March 29, 2013, the EPA announced its proposed Tier 3 fuel standards. The proposed Tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower allowable sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 parts per million by January 1, 2017. The EPA is expected to finalize this rule in early 2014. Our cost of compliance may be material; however, we will likely not be able to reasonably estimate our compliance costs until we have had time to review the final standards and develop our compliance plans.We have in the past owned or operated, and currently own and operate, convenience stores and other locations with USTs in various states. The operation of USTs poses risks, including soil and groundwater contamination, at our previously or currently operated locations. Such contamination could result in substantial cleanup costs, fines or civil liabilities. 29Table of ContentsWe have in the past and will continue to dispose of various wastes at lawful disposal sites. Environmental laws, including CERCLA, and similar state laws can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party, without regard to negligence or fault, and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when performed. Any failure by us to comply with existing or future laws or regulations could result in the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, injunctions limiting our operations, investigatory or remedial liabilities or impediments to construction of additional facilities or equipment.Worldwide political and economic developments could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition to impacting crude oil and other feedstock supplies, political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us in other ways. Hostilities in the Middle East or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the U.S. and other developed countries. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. These risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products. Additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. Additionally, tax policy, legislative or regulatory action and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. The U.S. government could prevent or restrict exports of refined products or the conduct of business with certain foreign countries. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, many tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities, and such audits could subject us to interest and penalties. The availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce profitability and refining and marketing gross margins. The profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. A portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, producing companies and trading companies, including suppliers from Canada, the Middle East and various other international locations. The market for crude oil and other feedstocks is largely a world market. We are, therefore, subject to the attendant political, geographic and economic risks of such a market. If one or more major supply sources were temporarily or permanently eliminated, we believe adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. If we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations, sales of refined products and refining and marketing gross margins could be adversely affected, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business.The U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. The threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.30Table of ContentsRisks Relating to Ownership of Our Common StockProvisions in our corporate governance documents could operate to delay or prevent a change in control of our company, dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our capital stock or affect its liquidity. The existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. These include provisions: •providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; •providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; •providing that only our board of directors may fill board vacancies; •limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; •establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our amended and restated bylaws; •providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; •authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and •authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition. Our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our board of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. Finally, to facilitate compliance with the Maritime Laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-U.S. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23 percent of the outstanding shares. We may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens to exceed 23 percent. Our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. These limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-U.S. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-U.S. citizens. Any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. 31Table of ContentsItem 1B