Item 1A. “Risk
    Factors” and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”
    below.


 


    On July 21, 2008, efficacy and safety results from the
    Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis (“SEAS”)
    study were announced. SEAS was designed to evaluate whether
    intensive lipid lowering with Vytorin
    10/40 mg
    would reduce the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk
    of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality versus placebo in
    patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who
    had no indication for statin therapy. Vytorin failed to
    meet its primary endpoint for the reduction of major
    cardiovascular events. In the study, patients in the group who
    took Vytorin 10/40 mg had a higher incidence of
    cancer than the group who took placebo. There was also a
    nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the
    group who took Vytorin versus those who took placebo.
    Cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ
    systems. The Company believes the cancer finding in SEAS is
    likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light of all the
    available data, does not support an association with
    Vytorin. In August 2008, the FDA announced that it was
    investigating the results from the SEAS trial. In December 2009,
    the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the data
    from the SEAS trial as well as a review of interim data from the
    Study of Heart and Renal Protection (“SHARP”) and
    IMPROVE-IT trials. Based on currently available information, the
    FDA indicated it believed it is unlikely that Vytorin or
    Zetia increase the risk of cancer-related death. The
    SHARP trial is expected to be completed in 2010. The IMPROVE-IT
    trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. In the IMPROVE-IT
    trial, a blinded interim efficacy analysis will be conducted by
    the Data Safety Monitoring Board for the trial when
    approximately 50% of the endpoints have been accrued. That
    interim analysis is expected to be conducted in 2010.


 


    The Company is committed to working with regulatory agencies to
    further evaluate the available data and interpretations of those
    data; however, the Company does not believe that changes in the
    clinical use of Vytorin are warranted.




    
    8



Table of Contents






    AstraZeneca
    LP





    In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB
    (“Astra”) to develop and market Astra products in the
    United States. In 1994, Old Merck and Astra formed an equally
    owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of
    Astra’s new prescription medicines in the United States
    including Prilosec (omeprazole), the first in a class of
    medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the
    production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining.


 


    In 1998, Old Merck and Astra restructured the joint venture
    whereby Old Merck acquired Astra’s interest in the joint
    venture, renamed KBI Inc. (“KBI”), and contributed
    KBI’s operating assets to a new U.S. limited
    partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the
    “Partnership”), in exchange for a 1% limited partner
    interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned
    subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for
    a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed
    AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”) upon Astra’s 1999 merger
    with Zeneca Group Plc (the “AstraZeneca merger”),
    became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI
    retained rights.


 


    The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing
    revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products. The
    Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in
    the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon
    sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a
    preferential return representing the Company’s share of
    undistributed Partnership AZLP generally accepted accounting
    principles (“GAAP”) earnings. The AstraZeneca merger
    triggered a partial redemption in March 2008 of Old Merck’s
    interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption,
    Old Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was
    based primarily on a multiple of Old Merck’s average annual
    variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA,
    Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the
    “Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value”). Old Merck
    recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial
    redemption in 2008. The partial redemption of Old Merck’s
    interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Old
    Merck’s 1% limited partnership interest. As described in
    Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below, after
    certain adjustments, Old Merck recorded an aggregate pretax gain
    of $2.2 billion in 2008.


 


    In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, Astra purchased an
    option (the “Asset Option”) for a payment of
    $443.0 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to
    buy Old Merck’s interest in the KBI products, excluding the
    gastrointestinal medicines Nexium (esomeprazole) and
    Prilosec (the “Non-PPI Products”). AstraZeneca
    can exercise the Asset Option in the first half of 2010 at an
    exercise price of $647 million which represents the net
    present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future
    pretax revenue to be received by the Company from the Non-PPI
    Products (the “Appraised Value”). On February 26,
    2010, AstraZeneca notified the Company that it was exercising
    the Asset Option. Old Merck also had the right to require Astra
    to purchase such interest in 2008 at the Appraised Value. In
    February 2008, Old Merck advised AstraZeneca that it would not
    exercise the Asset Option, thus the $443.0 million remains
    deferred but will be recognized when the Asset Option is
    consummated. In addition, in 1998, Old Merck granted Astra an
    option (the “Shares Option”) to buy Old
    Merck’s common stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old
    Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec,
    exercisable two years after Astra’s exercise of the Asset
    Option. Astra can also exercise the Shares Option in 2017
    or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a
    minimum amount provided, in each case, only so long as
    AstraZeneca’s Asset Option has been exercised in 2010. The
    exercise price for the Shares Option is based on the net
    present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and
    Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject
    to certain
    true-up
    mechanisms.


 



    Sanofi
    Pasteur MSD





    In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur Mérieux Connaught (now
    Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human
    vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of
    combination vaccines for distribution in the then existing EU
    and the European Free Trade Association. Old Merck and Sanofi
    Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine
    businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as
    Pasteur Mérieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD,
    S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or
    through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany,
    Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the
    Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through
    distributors in the rest of its territory.




    
    9



Table of Contents






    Johnson &
    JohnsonoMerck

    Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company





    In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with
    Johnson & Johnson to develop and market a broad range
    of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50%
    owned joint venture also includes Canada. Significant joint
    venture products are Pepcid AC (famotidine), an OTC form
    of Old Merck’s ulcer medication Pepcid (famotidine),
    as well as Pepcid Complete, an OTC product that combines
    the Company’s ulcer medication with antacids (calcium
    carbonate and magnesium hydroxide).


 



    Merial
    Limited





    In 1997, Old Merck and Rhône-Poulenc S.A. (now
    sanofi-aventis) combined their respective animal health
    businesses to form Merial Limited (“Merial”), a
    fully integrated animal health company, which was a stand-alone
    joint venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a
    comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance
    the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal
    species.


 


    On September 17, 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in
    Merial to sanofi-aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale
    resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain
    reflected in Other income (expense), net in 2009. Also,
    in connection with the sale of Merial, Old Merck, sanofi-aventis
    and Schering-Plough signed a call option agreement. Under the
    terms of the call option agreement, following the closing of the
    Merger, sanofi-aventis has an option to require the Company to
    combine its Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health business with
    Merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be
    owned equally by the Company and sanofi-aventis. As part of the
    call option agreement, the value of Merial has been fixed at
    $8 billion. The minimum total value received by the Company
    and its affiliates for contributing Intervet/Schering-Plough to
    the combined entity would be $9.25 billion (subject to
    customary transaction adjustments), consisting of a floor
    valuation of Intervet/Schering-Plough which is fixed at a
    minimum of $8.5 billion (subject to potential upward
    revision based on a valuation exercise by the two parties) and
    an additional payment by sanofi-aventis of $750 million.
    Based on the valuation exercise of Intervet/Schering-Plough and
    the customary transaction adjustments, if Merial and
    Intervet/Schering-Plough are combined, a payment may be required
    to be paid by either party to make the joint venture equally
    owned by the Company and sanofi-aventis. This payment would
    true-up the
    value of the contributions so that they are equal. Any formation
    of a new animal health joint venture with sanofi-aventis is
    subject to customary closing conditions including antitrust
    review in the United States and Europe. Prior to the closing of
    the Merger, the agreements provided Old Merck with certain
    rights to terminate the call option for a fee of
    $400 million. The recognition of the termination fee was
    deferred until the fourth quarter of 2009 when the conditions
    that could have triggered its payment lapsed.


 



    Licenses


 


    In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough entered into a
    licensing agreement with Centocor, Inc., now a
    Johnson & Johnson company, to market Remicade,
    which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory
    diseases. In 2005, Schering-Plough’s subsidiary exercised
    an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to
    develop and commercialize Simponi, a fully human
    monoclonal antibody. The Company has exclusive marketing rights
    to both products outside the United States, Japan and certain
    Asian markets. In December 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor
    revised their distribution agreement regarding the development,
    commercialization and distribution of both Remicade and
    Simponi, extending the Company’s rights to
    exclusively market Remicade to match the duration of the
    Company’s exclusive marketing rights for Simponi. In
    addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain
    development costs relating to Simponi’s
    auto-injector delivery system. On October 6, 2009, the EC
    approved Simponi as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis
    and other immune system disorders in two
    presentations – a novel auto-injector and a prefilled
    syringe. As a result, the Company’s marketing rights for
    both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial
    sale of Simponi within the EU following the receipt of
    pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU. After
    operating expenses and subject to certain adjustments, the
    Company is entitled to receive an approximate 60% share of
    profits on the Company’s distribution in the Company’s
    marketing territory. Beginning in 2010, the share of profits
    will change over time to a 50% share of profits by 2014 for both
    products and the share of profits will remain fixed thereafter
    for the remainder of the term. The Company may independently
    develop and market Simponi for a Crohn’s disease
    indication in its territories, with an option for Centocor to
    participate. Centocor has instituted an arbitration proceeding
    to terminate this agreement and the Company’s rights to
    distribute these products. See Item 1A. “Risk
    Factors” and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”
    below.




    
    10



Table of Contents






    Competition


 


    The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the
    pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly
    regulated. The Company’s operations may be affected by
    technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation,
    patents granted to competitors, competitive combination
    products, new products of competitors, new information from
    clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing
    surveillance and generic competition as the Company’s
    products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly
    being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly
    uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude
    commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of
    existing products and could result in the recognition of an
    impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive
    pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have
    grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and
    patent disputes cannot be predicted.


 


    Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for
    technological innovations and the ability to market these
    innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on
    research and development, the Company is well positioned to
    compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional
    resources to meet market challenges include quality control,
    flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient
    distribution system and a strong technical information service.
    The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products
    through external alliances, such as joint ventures, and licenses
    and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further
    address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction
    of new products and processes by competitors may result in price
    reductions and product displacements, even for products
    protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds
    available to treat a particular disease typically increases over
    time and can result in slowed sales growth for the
    Company’s products in that therapeutic category.


 


    Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to
    exert pressure on product pricing and access. In addressing cost
    containment pressure, the Company makes a continuing effort to
    demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to
    those who pay for health care. In addition, pricing flexibility
    across the Company’s product portfolio has encouraged
    growing use of its medicines and mitigated the effects of
    increasing cost pressures on individual medicines.


 


    Outside the United States, in difficult government budgetary
    environments, the Company has worked with payers to encourage
    allocation of scarce resources to optimize healthcare outcomes,
    limiting the potentially detrimental effects of government
    policies on sales growth and access to innovative medicines and
    vaccines, and to support the discovery and development of
    innovative products to benefit patients. The Company also is
    working with governments in many emerging markets in Eastern
    Europe, Latin America and Asia to encourage them to increase
    their investments in health and thereby improve their
    citizens’ access to medicines. In addition, certain
    countries within the EU, recognizing the economic importance of
    the research-based pharmaceutical industry and the value of
    innovative medicines to society, are working with industry
    representatives to improve the competitive climate through a
    variety of means including market deregulation.


 


    The Company anticipates that the worldwide trend toward cost
    containment will continue, resulting in ongoing pressures on
    healthcare budgets. In the United States, major healthcare
    reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of
    Congress. A final revised bill which unifies both versions may
    be considered and adopted into law. The impact of such actions,
    as well as budget pressures on governments in the United States
    and other nations, cannot be predicted at this time. As the
    Company continues to successfully launch new products,
    contribute to health care debates and monitor reforms, its new
    products, policies and strategies should enable it to maintain a
    strong position in the changing economic environment.


 


    Although no one can predict the outcome of these and other
    legislative, regulatory and advocacy initiatives, the Company
    believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving
    health care environment and market forces.


 



    Access to
    Medicines


 


    The Company is also committed to improving access to medicines
    and enhancing the quality of life for people around the world.
    To cite just one example, The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS
    Partnerships in





    
    11



Table of Contents





    Botswana, a partnership between the government of Botswana, the
    Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and The Merck Company
    Foundation/Merck & Co., Inc., is supporting
    Botswana’s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and
    sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and
    support.


 


    To further catalyze access to HIV medicines in developing
    countries, the Company makes no profit on the sale of its
    current HIV/AIDS medicines in the world’s poorest countries
    and those hardest hit by the pandemic, and offers its HIV/AIDS
    medicines at significantly reduced prices to medium-income
    countries. In February 2007, Old Merck announced that it had
    again reduced the price of Stocrin in the least developed
    countries of the world and those hardest hit by the pandemic.
    Through these and other actions, the Company is working
    independently and with partners in both the public and private
    sectors to address the most critical barriers to access to
    medicines in the developing world. Addressing these barriers
    requires investments in education, training and health
    infrastructure and to improve capacity achieved through
    increased international assistance and sustainable financing.


 


    In addition, Old Merck has committed to providing RotaTeq
    to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and
    Immunization-eligible countries at prices at which it does not
    profit. Also, in 2009, Old Merck and The Wellcome Trust
    established the MSD Wellcome Trust Hilleman Laboratories, a
    joint venture in India to develop vaccines for millions of
    people in some of the poorest areas of the world.


 



    Government
    Regulation


 


    The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by
    regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Of
    particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which
    administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements have increased the amount of time and resources
    necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in
    the United States. In 1997, the Food and Drug Administration
    Modernization Act (the “FDA Modernization Act”) was
    passed and was the culmination of a comprehensive legislative
    reform effort designed to streamline regulatory procedures
    within the FDA and to improve the regulation of drugs, medical
    devices, and food. The legislation was principally designed to
    ensure the timely availability of safe and effective drugs and
    biologics by expediting the premarket review process for new
    products. A key provision of the legislation is the
    re-authorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992,
    which permits the continued collection of user fees from
    prescription drug manufacturers to augment FDA resources
    earmarked for the review of human drug applications. This helps
    provide the resources necessary to ensure the prompt approval of
    safe and effective new drugs.


 


    In the United States, the government expanded access for senior
    citizens to prescription drug coverage by enacting the Medicare
    Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003,
    which was signed into law in December 2003. Prescription drug
    coverage began on January 1, 2006. This legislation
    supports the Company’s goal of improving access to
    medicines by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving
    market-based incentives for pharmaceutical innovation. At the
    same time, the legislation has helped control the cost of
    prescription drug costs through competitive pressures and by
    encouraging the appropriate use of medicines. As mentioned
    above, in the United States major healthcare reform has been
    introduced and passed in both houses of Congress. A final
    revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and
    adopted into law. The U.S. Congress has also considered,
    and may consider again, proposals to increase the
    government’s role in pharmaceutical pricing in the Medicare
    program. These proposals may include removing the current legal
    prohibition against the Secretary of the Health and Human
    Services intervening in price negotiations between Medicare drug
    benefit program plans and pharmaceutical companies. They may
    also include mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of
    the pharmaceutical utilization in Medicare drug benefit plans.
    In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow,
    under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from
    other countries.


 


    For many years, the pharmaceutical industry has been under
    federal and state oversight with the approval process for new
    drugs, drug safety, advertising and promotion, drug purchasing
    and reimbursement programs, and formularies. The Company
    believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its
    operations, including the introduction of new drugs to the
    market, in this regulatory environment.


 


    The Company continues to work with private and public payors to
    slow increases in healthcare spending. Also, U.S. federal
    and state governments have pursued methods to directly reduce
    the cost of drugs and vaccines for





    
    12



Table of Contents





    which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to
    pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid, to
    provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain
    Public Health Service entities and “disproportionate
    share” hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria), and
    to provide minimum discounts of 24% off of a defined
    “non-federal average manufacturer price” for purchases
    by certain components of the federal government such as the
    Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.


 


    Initiatives in some states seek rebates beyond the minimum
    required by Medicaid legislation, in some cases for patients
    beyond those who are eligible for Medicaid. Under the Federal
    Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the U.S. Centers
    for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) funds and
    purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector
    price for the immunization of Medicaid-eligible, uninsured,
    Native American and certain underinsured children. Old Merck was
    awarded a CDC contract in 2009 for the supply of pediatric
    vaccines for the Vaccines for Children program.


 


    Outside the United States, the Company encounters similar
    regulatory and legislative issues in most of the countries where
    it does business. There, too, the primary thrust of governmental
    inquiry and action is toward determining drug safety and
    effectiveness, often with mechanisms for controlling the prices
    of or reimbursement for prescription drugs and the profits of
    prescription drug companies. The EU has adopted directives
    concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale
    distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products
    for human use. The Company’s policies and procedures are
    already consistent with the substance of these directives;
    consequently, it is believed that they will not have any
    material effect on the Company’s business.


 


    In January 2008, the EC launched a sector inquiry in the
    pharmaceutical industry under the rules of EU competition law.
    As part of this inquiry, Old Merck’s offices in Germany
    were inspected by the authorities beginning in January 2008. The
    preliminary report of the EC was issued on November 28,
    2008, and following the public consultation period, the final
    report was issued in July 2009. The final report confirmed that
    there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines
    reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of
    generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have
    contributed to these phenomena. While the EC has issued further
    inquiries with respect to the subject of the investigation, the
    EC has not alleged that the Company or any of its subsidiaries
    have engaged in any unlawful practices.


 


    The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory
    agencies and is, therefore, subject to potential administrative
    actions. Such actions may include seizures of products and other
    civil and criminal sanctions. Under certain circumstances, the
    Company on its own may deem it advisable to initiate product
    recalls. The Company believes that it should be able to compete
    effectively within this environment.


 



    Privacy
    and Data Protection


 


    The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data
    protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy
    and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly
    the Company’s business, including recently enacted laws and
    regulations in the United States and internationally requiring
    notification to individuals and government authorities of
    security breaches involving certain categories of personal
    information.


 



    Distribution


 


    The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products
    primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals,
    government agencies and managed health care providers such as
    health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and
    other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to
    physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
    entities. The Company’s professional representatives
    communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the
    Company’s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health
    care professionals in private practice, group practices and
    managed care organizations. The Company’s professional
    representatives communicate the safety and value of the
    Company’s animal health products to veterinarians,
    distributors and animal producers. The Company’s OTC, foot
    care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail
    drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets.




    
    13



Table of Contents






    Raw
    Materials


 


    Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from
    multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally
    available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the
    Company’s business.


 



    Patents,
    Trademarks and Licenses


 


    Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of
    material importance in the Company’s marketing of human
    health products in the United States and in most major foreign
    markets. Patents may cover products per se,
    pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates
    useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products.
    Protection for individual products extends for varying periods
    in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various
    countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
    country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its
    scope of coverage.


 


    The FDA Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity
    Provision that may provide an additional six months of market
    exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or
    currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric
    studies are completed by the applicant. These exclusivity
    provisions were re-authorized by the Prescription Drug User Fee
    Act passed in September 2007. Current U.S. patent law
    provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration
    for periods when the patented product was under regulatory
    review before the FDA.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the
    Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the
    following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term
    Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed
    products:


 




     	
     	
     	





Product(1)



 



    Year of Expiration (in
    U.S.)




 






    Cozaar



 


    2010





    Hyzaar



 


    2010





    Crixivan



 


    2012 (compound)/2018 (formulation)





    Maxalt



 


    2012 (compound)/2014 (other)





    Singulair



 


    2012





    Cancidas



 


    2013 (compound)/2015 (composition)





    Propecia(2)




 


    2013 (formulation/use)





    Asmanex



 


    2014 (use)/2018 (formulation)





    Avelox



 


    2014





    Integrilin



 


    2014 (compound)/2015 (use/formulation)





    Nasonex



 


    2014 (use/formulation)/2018(formulation)





    Temodar(3)




 


    2014





    Emend



 


    2015





    Follistim/Puregon



 


    2015





    PegIntron



 


    2015 (conjugates)/2020 (Mature IFN-alpha)





    Zolinza



 


    2015





    Invanz



 


    2016 (compound)/2017 (composition)





    Zostavax



 


    2016





    Zetia/Vytorin



 


    2017





    NuvaRing



 


    2018 (delivery system)





    Noxafil



 


    2019





    RotaTeq



 


    2019





    Clarinex(4)




 


    2020 (formulation)





    Comvax



 


    2020 (method of making/vectors)





    Intron A



 


    2020





    Recombivax



 


    2020 (method of making/vectors)





    Saphris/Sycrest



 


    2020 (use/formulation) (subject to pending Patent Term
    Restoration application)





    Januvia/Janumet



 


    2022 (compound)/2026 (salt)





    Isentress



 


    2023





    Gardasil



 


    2026 (method of making/use/product by process)








 




    
    



        (1) 


        Compound patent unless otherwise noted.








        (2) 


        By agreement, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories may launch a
    generic on January 1, 2013.








        (3) 


        In January 2010, a court held the patent for Temodar
    to be unenforceable. That decision is being appealed. See
    Item 3. “Legal Proceedings — Patent
    Litigation” below.








        (4) 


        By virtue of litigation settlement, generics have been given
    the right to enter the market as of 2012.





 


    While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a
    loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical
    product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from:
    (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates
    related to the most economical method of manufacture of the
    active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to
    the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel
    compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United
    States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may
    be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent
    expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many
    other factors such as the nature of the market and the position
    of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities
    and economics of the process for manufacture of the active
    ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug
    provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar
    laws and regulations in other countries.




    
    15



Table of Contents





    The patents that provide U.S. market exclusivity for
    Cozaar and Hyzaar expire in April 2010. In
    addition, the patent for Cozaar will expire in a number
    of major European markets in March 2010. Hyzaar lost
    patent protection in major European markets in
    February 2010. The Company expects that sales of these
    products will decline rapidly after expiration of these patents,
    particularly in the United States since there are expected to be
    multiple sources of generic products at the time of patent
    expiry. In addition, the patent that provides U.S. market
    exclusivity for Singulair expires in August 2012. The
    Company expects that within the two years following patent
    expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of
    Singulair, with most of those declines coming in the
    first full year following patent expiration. Also, the patent
    for Singulair will expire in a number of major European
    markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of
    Singulair in those markets will decline significantly
    thereafter.


 


    Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States
    and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws
    increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in
    patent life have been partially offset by a general increase in
    the number of incentives for and use of generic products.
    Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are
    sought in the United States and other countries through reform
    of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of
    international treaties.


 


    For further information with respect to the Company’s
    patents, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and
    Item 3. “Legal Proceedings — Patent
    Litigation” below.


 


    Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold
    under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of
    material importance. Trademark protection continues in some
    countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as
    registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed
    indefinitely.


 


    Royalties received during 2009 on patent and know-how licenses
    and other rights amounted to $218.9 million. Merck also
    paid royalties amounting to $1.27 billion in 2009 under
    patent and know-how licenses it holds.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction
    of new products or new uses for existing products through a
    strong research and development program. Approximately
    17,200 people are employed in the Company’s research
    activities. Research and development expenses (which included
    restructuring costs) were $5.8 billion in 2009,
    $4.8 billion in 2008 and $4.9 billion in 2007. The
    Company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a
    broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in
    support of new products.


 


    The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and
    fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well
    as research programs directed toward product development. The
    Company’s research and development model is designed to
    increase productivity and improve the probability of success by
    prioritizing the Company’s research and development
    resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific
    opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its
    research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to
    discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately
    on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major
    impact on human health, on developing
    best-in-class
    approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines
    and vaccines through new indications and new formulations.
    Another important component of the Company’s science-based
    diversification is based on expanding the Company’s
    portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and
    vaccines, but also biologics, peptides and RNAi. Further, Merck
    moved to diversify its portfolio by creating a new division,
    Merck BioVentures, which has the potential to harness the market
    opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by
    delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to enhance
    access for patients worldwide. The Company will continue to
    pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities.


 


    The integration plans for research and development are focused
    on integrating the research operations of the legacy companies,
    including providing an effective transition for employees,
    realizing projected merger synergies in the form of cost savings
    and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining momentum in
    the Company’s late-stage pipeline. During 2009, Merck
    continued implementing a new model for its basic research global
    operating strategy at legacy Merck Research Laboratories sites.
    The new model will align franchise and function as well as align
    resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity
    across discovery phases and allow the Company to act upon those
    programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally,
    across all





    
    16



Table of Contents





    disease area priorities, the Company’s strategy is designed
    to expand access to worldwide external science and incorporate
    external research as a key component of the Company’s early
    discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research
    productivity into late-stage clinical success.


 


    The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in
    multiple disease areas, including anemia, atherosclerosis,
    cancer, diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, infectious
    diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, migraine,
    neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis,
    psychiatric diseases, respiratory disease and women’s
    health. The Company supplements its internal research with an
    aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on
    the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to
    late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies.


 


    In the development of human health products, industry practice
    and government regulations in the United States and most
    foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness
    and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests
    and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine
    may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on
    preclinical and clinical experience are included in the New Drug
    Application (“NDA”) for a drug or the Biologics
    License Application (“BLA”) for a vaccine or biologic
    submitted to the FDA for the required approval.


 


    Once the Company’s scientists discover a new small molecule
    compound that they believe has promise to treat a medical
    condition, the Company commences preclinical testing with that
    compound. Preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and
    animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology
    and toxicology. Pending acceptable preclinical data, the Company
    will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established
    regulatory requirements. The clinical testing begins with Phase
    I studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability,
    pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of
    the compound in humans. If favorable, additional, larger
    Phase II studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of
    the compound in the affected population, define appropriate
    dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects
    that could limit the compound’s usefulness. If data from
    the Phase II trials are satisfactory, the Company commences
    large-scale Phase III trials to confirm the compound’s
    efficacy and safety. Upon completion of those trials, if
    satisfactory, the Company submits regulatory filings with the
    appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the
    product candidate approved for marketing. There can be no
    assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular
    program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to
    be marketed.


 


    Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for
    drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine’s safety
    and ability to elicit a protective immune response
    (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are
    typically done in three phases. Initial Phase I clinical studies
    are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety,
    tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate.
    Phase II studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally,
    Phase III trials provide the necessary data on
    effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits
    regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies.
    Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility
    undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of
    the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail.


 


    In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a
    complete NDA is submitted and received by the FDA. Pursuant to
    the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA review period
    targets for NDAs or supplemental NDAs is either six months, for
    priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. Within
    60 days after receipt of an NDA, the FDA determines if the
    application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive
    review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the
    application will be granted a priority review or standard
    review. Once the review timelines are defined, the FDA will
    generally act upon the application within those timelines,
    unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the
    Company’s own initiative or the FDA’s request) to the
    pending application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the
    review period to allow for review of the new information, but by
    no more than 180 days. Extensions to the review period are
    communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application
    by issuing an approval letter or a complete response letter.


 



    Research
    and Development Update





    In connection with the Merger, the Company is assessing its
    pipeline to identify the most promising, high-potential
    compounds for development. The Company has completed the
    prioritization of its clinical development





    
    17



Table of Contents





    programs. The Company is continuing to work on the
    prioritization of its value adding programs related to currently
    marketed products and to its preclinical/discovery programs. The
    Company anticipates that the full prioritization process will be
    completed by the first half of 2010. In connection with this
    process, the Company may recognize non-cash impairment charges
    for the cancellation of certain legacy Schering-Plough pipeline
    programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in
    connection with the Merger. These non-cash impairment charges,
    which are anticipated to be excluded from the Company’s
    non-GAAP earnings, could be material to the Company’s
    future GAAP earnings.


 


    The Company currently has a number of candidates under
    regulatory review in the United States and internationally.
    Additionally, the Company has 19 drug candidates in
    Phase III development.


 


    MK-6621, vernakalant (IV), is an investigational candidate for
    the treatment of atrial fibrillation currently undergoing
    regulatory review in the EU. In April 2009, Old Merck and
    Cardiome Pharma Corp. (“Cardiome”) announced a
    collaboration and license agreement for the development and
    commercialization of vernakalant which provides Merck exclusive
    rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to the
    intravenous formulation of vernakalant. Vernakalent (oral) is
    currently in Phase II development. Merck has exclusive
    global rights to the oral formulation of vernakalent for the
    maintenance of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial
    fibrillation.


 


    SCH 418131, MFF, is a combination of two previously approved
    drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone (Asmanex)
    and formoterol (Foradil). The Company is aiming to create
    a new option for patients by bringing these two key treatments
    together. In July 2009,
    Schering-Plough
    announced that it had filed an NDA with the FDA for MFF. MFF is
    also currently under regulatory review in the EU.


 


    SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a
    selective progestin with estradiol, the estrogen that women
    produce naturally. The drug is currently under regulatory review
    in the EU. It is in Phase III development for the
    U.S. market.


 


    SCH 900274, Saphris, asenapine, a central nervous system
    compound for bipolar I disorder and schizophrenia, is currently
    undergoing regulatory review in the EU. The FDA approved
    Saphris in August 2009.


 


    SCH 900616, Bridion, sugammadex, is a medication designed
    to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle relaxants used
    as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients remain immobile
    during surgical procedures. It differs from other reversal
    agents that can only be administered once the muscle relaxant
    begins to wear off. Bridion has received regulatory
    approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand and Japan, and is
    under regulatory review in other markets, including the United
    States. Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough received a complete
    response letter from the FDA for Bridion. Following
    further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the
    agency’s feedback in order to determine a new timetable for
    response.


 


    SCH 503034, boceprevir, is a hepatitis C protease inhibitor
    currently under development. Boceprevir is fully enrolled in its
    Phase III program, which the Company expects to conclude in
    mid-2010. The Company expects to submit an NDA to the FDA for
    boceprevir by the end of 2010 for both treatment-experienced and
    treatment-naïve patients with hepatitis C.


 


    MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of
    rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of
    cancer. The drug candidate is being jointly developed and
    commercialized with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., under an
    agreement entered into in 2007. A Phase III study (SUCCEED)
    in patients with metastatic soft-tissue or bone sarcomas is
    underway. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for
    ridaforolimus with the FDA in 2010, subject to a review of the
    results from the planned interim analysis of SUCCEED.


 


    SCH 697243, an allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet
    (“AIT”) for grass pollen allergy, is being developed
    by the Company. In November 2009, SCH 697243 met the primary
    endpoint in a Phase III study of adult subjects in the
    United States with a history of grass pollen induced
    rhinoconjunctivitis with or without asthma. The investigational
    grass AIT treatment is designed to work by inducing a protective
    immune response against grass pollen allergy and providing
    sustained prevention of allergy symptoms, treating both the
    symptoms and the underlying cause of the disease.


 


    SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in
    Phase III development for the U.S. market.




    
    18



Table of Contents





    SCH 530348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist or
    antiplatelet protease activated receptor-1 inhibitor being
    studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. In
    November 2009, Merck announced completion of patient enrollment
    of more than 26,000 patients in the TRA 2°P-TIMI 50
    clinical trial, a Phase III, randomized, double-blind,
    placebo-controlled, multinational study. The trial will assess
    the ability of SCH 530348 to prevent major cardiovascular events
    when added to current antiplatelet regimens (aspirin or aspirin
    plus an ADP inhibitor) in patients who have previously
    experienced a heart attack or stroke or who have peripheral
    arterial disease. SCH 530348 is also being studied in the
    treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome in the
    ongoing Phase III Thrombin Receptor Antagonist for Clinical
    Event Reduction in Acute Coronary Syndrome trial, led by the
    Duke Clinical Research Institute. The Company anticipates filing
    an NDA for vorapaxar with the FDA in 2011.


 


    MK-2452, tafluprost, is a preservative free, synthetic analogue
    of the prostaglandin F2α for the reduction of elevated
    intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary
    open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. In April 2009, Old
    Merck and Santen announced a worldwide licensing agreement for
    tafluprost.


 


    As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA
    with the FDA for MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin,
    which is an investigational medication for the treatment of
    dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application. The
    FDA has identified additional manufacturing and stability data
    that are needed and the Company is assessing the FDA’s
    response and anticipates filing in 2011.


 


    MK-0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical
    development, combines Januvia with pioglitazone, another
    type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA for MK-0431C with the FDA in 2011.


 


    MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational
    treatment for osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease which
    reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased
    risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor
    that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is
    known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts,
    which are cells that break down existing bone tissue,
    particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of
    cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of
    osteoporosis. In September 2009, data from a Phase IIB clinical
    study of odanacatib were presented at the 31st Annual
    Meeting of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research
    which showed that when stopping treatment after two years the
    increases in lower back (lumbar spine) bone mineral density
    (“BMD”) were reversed over the next year, while BMD at
    the hip (femoral neck) remained above levels observed at the
    start of the study. Additionally, three years of treatment with
    odanacatib 50 mg demonstrated increases in BMD at key
    fracture sites and minimal impact on the formation of new bone
    as measured by biochemical markers of bone turnover. Odanacatib
    is currently in Phase III clinical trials and is being
    evaluated in a large-scale, global outcomes study to determine
    its effects on vertebral, hip and non-vertebral fractures. The
    Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in
    2012.


 


    V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to expand
    protection against cancer-causing HPV types. The Phase III
    clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a BLA
    with the FDA in 2012.


 


    MK-0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended-release
    (“ER”) niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor,
    laropiprant. MK-0524A has demonstrated the ability to lower
    LDL-cholesterol (“LDL-C” or “bad”
    cholesterol), raise HDL-cholesterol (“HDL-C” or
    “good” cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with
    significantly less flushing than traditional extended release
    niacin alone. High LDL-C, low HDL-C and elevated triglycerides
    are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. In
    April 2008, Old Merck received a non-approvable action letter
    from the FDA in response to its NDA for MK-0524A. At a meeting
    to discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy
    and safety data were required and suggested that Old Merck wait
    for the results of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence
    of Vascular Events (“HPS2-THRIVE”) cardiovascular
    outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. The
    Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK-0524A in
    2012. MK-0524A has been approved in more than 45 countries
    outside the United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia,
    particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia
    (characterized by elevated levels of LDL-C and triglycerides and
    low HDL-C) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia
    (heterozygous familial and non-familial) and is marketed as
    Tredaptive (or as Cordaptive in certain
    countries). Tredaptive should be used in patients in
    combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects
    of statin monotherapy is inadequate. Tredaptive can be
    used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are
    considered inappropriate or not tolerated.




    
    19



Table of Contents





    MK-0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to
    raising HDL-C and lowering triglycerides from ER niacin combined
    with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one
    combination product. Merck will not seek approval for MK-0524B
    in the United States until it files its complete response
    relating to MK-0524A.


 


    MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester
    transfer protein that has shown promise in lipid management by
    raising HDL-C and reducing LDL-C without raising blood pressure.
    In November 2009, Merck announced that in a Phase IIb study in
    589 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed
    hyperlipidemia treated with anacetrapib as monotherapy or
    co-administered with atorvastatin, there were persistent lipid
    effects in the higher dose arms in both the monotherapy and
    co-administration treatment groups eight weeks after stopping
    active therapy with anacetrapib. The effect of CETP inhibition
    on cardiovascular risk has yet to be established. A
    Phase III trial, titled DEFINE, is ongoing to further
    evaluate the safety and efficacy of anacetrapib in patients with
    coronary heart disease. The Company anticipates filing an NDA
    with the FDA beyond 2015.


 


    As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was
    delaying the filing of the U.S. application for telcagepant
    (MK-0974), the Company’s investigational calcitonin
    gene-related peptide (“CGRP”)-receptor antagonist for
    the intermittent treatment of acute migraine. The decision was
    based on findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a
    small number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for
    three months for the prevention of migraine were found to have
    marked elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing
    regimen in the prevention study was different than the dosing
    regimen used in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was
    intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat
    individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Other studies with
    telcagepant for the acute, intermittent treatment of migraine
    continue. Following meetings with regulatory agencies at the end
    of 2009, Merck is planning to conduct an additional safety study
    as part of the overall Phase III program for telcagepant.
    The results of this study will inform planned filings for
    approval.


 


    SCH 900395, acadesine, is a potential
    first-in
    class adenosine regulating agent for ischemia reperfusion-injury
    in patients undergoing heart bypass surgery. Patient enrollment
    in the RED CABG Phase III clinical trial was initiated in
    2009.


 


    SCH 417690, vicriviroc, for the treatment of HIV infection
    (treatment experienced) was evaluated in two Phase III
    studies in this patient population, and it was announced in
    January 2010 that the primary efficacy endpoint was not met.
    Merck will not submit an NDA to the FDA for vicriviroc in
    treatment-experienced HIV-infected patients at this time but
    will continue to evaluate vicriviroc as first-line therapy for
    treatment-naive patients.


 


    As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    (“Cubist”) entered into a license agreement with Old
    Merck for the development and commercialization of Cubicin
    (daptomycin for injection, MK-3009) in Japan. Merck will develop
    and commercialize Cubicin through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Cubist commercializes Cubicin in
    the United States. MK-3009 is currently in Phase III
    development.


 


    MK-4305 is an orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new
    approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia, currently in
    Phase III development.


 


    SCH 900962, Elonva, corifollitropin alpha injection,
    which has been approved in the EC for controlled ovarian
    stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the
    development of multiple follicles in women participating in an
    assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in
    Phase III development in the United States.


 


    Merck has terminated the internal clinical development program
    for esmirtazapine (SCH 900265) for hot flashes and insomnia
    for strategic reasons.


 


    As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced that
    preliminary results for the pivotal Phase III study of
    rolofylline (MK-7418), its investigational medicine for the
    treatment of acute heart failure, showed that rolofylline did
    not meet the primary or secondary efficacy endpoints. Old Merck
    terminated the clinical development program for rolofylline.


 


    The chart below reflects the Company’s current research
    pipeline as of February 12, 2010. Candidates shown in
    Phase III include specific products. Candidates shown in
    Phase II include the most advanced compound with a specific
    mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they
    are each currently intended for





    
    20



Table of Contents





    commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules
    and biologics are given MK-number or SCH-number designations and
    vaccine candidates are given V-number designations. Candidates
    in Phase I, additional indications in the same therapeutic area
    and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for
    in-line products are not shown.


 

 



    Phase II





    Allergy



    SCH
    900237(2)

    



    Anemia



    MK-2578
    



    Asthma



    MK-0476C
    



    Atrial Fibrillation



    MK-6621 (vernakalant [oral])
    



    Cancer



    MK-0646 (dalotuzumab)
    



    SCH 727965 (dinaciclib)
    SCH 900776
    



    Clostridium difficile
    Infection



    MK-3415A
    



    COPD



    SCH 527123
    



    Diabetes



    MK-0941
    



    MK-3577
    



    Hepatitis C



    MK-7009 (vaniprevir)
    



    HIV



    SCH 417690 (vicriviroc)
    



    Hot Flashes



    MK-6913
    



    Hypertension



    MK-0736
    



    Insomnia



    MK-6096
    



    Osteoporosis



    MK-5442
    



    Parkinson’s
    Disease



    SCH 420814 (preladenant)
    



    Pediatric Vaccine



    V419
    



    Progeria



    SCH 066336, Sarasar
    (lonafarnib)
    



    Schizophrenia



    MK-8998
    



    SCH 900435
    



    Staph Infection



    V710
    



    Thrombosis



    MK-4448 (betrixaban)
    









    Phase III(6)





    Allergy



    SCH 697243, Grass
    pollen(2)

    



    SCH 039641,
    Ragweed(2)

    



    Anesthesia Reversal



    SCH 900616 (sugammadex)
    (U.S.)(4)

    



    Atherosclerosis



    MK-0524A (extended-release
    niacin/ laropiprant)
    (U.S.)(3)

    



    MK-0524B (extended-release
    niacin/ laropiprant/simvastin)
    



    MK-0859 (anacetrapib)
    



    Cervical Cancer



    V503
    



    Contraception



    SCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (U.S.)
    



    Diabetes



    MK-0431C
    (Januvia/pioglitazone)
    



    Fertility



    SCH 900962 (corifollitropin alfa
    injection)
    (U.S.)(3)

    



    Glaucoma



    MK-2452 (tafluprost)
    (U.S.)(4)

    



    Hepatitis C



    SCH 503034 (boceprevir)
    



    Insomnia



    MK-4305
    



    Ischemia-Reperfusion
    Injury



    SCH 900395 (acadesine)
    



    Migraine



    MK-0974 (telcagepant)
    



    Osteoporosis



    MK-0822 (odanacatib)
    



    Sarcoma



    MK-8669 (ridaforolimus)
    



    Staph Infection



    MK-3009 (daptomycin for
    injection)(5)

    



    Thrombosis



    SCH 530348 (vorapaxar) (TRA)
    


 








    Under Review





    Asthma



    SCH 418131 (momestasone/ formoterol
    combination) (U.S./EU)
    



    Atrial Fibrillation



    MK-6621 (vernakalant [IV])
    (EU)(1)

    



    Contraception



    SCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (EU)
    



    Schizophrenia/Bipolar I
    Disorder



    SCH 900274 (asenapine) (EU)
    


 




    Footnotes:





    
    



        (1) 

        Exclusive rights outside of the
    United States, Canada and Mexico to vernakalant (IV)
    




        (2) 

        North American rights only
    




        (3) 

        Approved in certain countries in
    Europe
    




        (4) 

        Approved in certain countries in
    Europe and Japan
    




        (5) 

        Japanese rights only
    




        (6) 

        MK-0653C fixed dose combination of
    ezetimibe and atorvastatin is anticipated to be submitted to the
    U.S. FDA in 2011 and commercialized when regulatory and legal
    requirements have been satisfied
    










 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately
    100,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 42,000
    employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico.
    Approximately 28% of worldwide employees of the Company are
    represented by various collective bargaining groups.


 


    In October 2008, Old Merck announced a global restructuring
    program (the “2008 Restructuring Program”) to reduce
    its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance
    competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the
    Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions
    — 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies —
    across all areas of the Company worldwide by the end of 2011.
    About 40% of the total





    
    21



Table of Contents





    reductions will occur in the United States. As part of the 2008
    Restructuring Program, Old Merck is streamlining management
    layers by reducing its total number of senior and mid-level
    executives globally.


 


    Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough commenced a Productivity
    Transformation Program, which was designed to reduce and avoid
    costs and increase productivity.


 


    In February 2010, the Company announced the first phase of a new
    global restructuring program (the “Merger Restructuring
    Program”) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy
    Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger
    Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure
    of the combined Company. As part of the first phase of the
    Merger Restructuring Program, by the end of 2012, the Company
    expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 15%
    across all areas of the Company worldwide. The Company also
    plans to eliminate 2,500 vacant positions as part of the first
    phase of the program. These workforce reductions will primarily
    come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales,
    administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from
    the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and
    research and development operations.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    The Company believes that there are no compliance issues
    associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations
    that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. In
    2009, Merck incurred capital expenditures of approximately
    $33.6 million for environmental protection facilities. The
    Company is also remediating environmental contamination
    resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites.
    Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were
    $16.6 million in 2009, $34.5 million in 2008,
    $19.5 million in 2007, and are estimated at
    $55 million for the years 2010 through 2013. These amounts
    do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The
    Company has taken an active role in identifying and providing
    for these costs and, in management’s opinion, the
    liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable
    and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled
    $161.8 million at December 31, 2009. Although it is
    not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these
    environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation,
    management does not believe that any reasonably possible
    expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities
    accrued should exceed $170.0 million in the aggregate.
    Management also does not believe that these expenditures should
    have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
    position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources
    for any year.


 



    Geographic
    Area Information


 


    The Company’s operations outside the United States are
    conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by
    subsidiaries outside the United States were 47% of sales in
    2009, 44% of sales in 2008 and 39% of sales in 2007. The
    increase in proportion of sales outside the United States in
    2009 is primarily due to the inclusion of results of
    Schering-Plough following the close of the Merger.


 


    The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of
    currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other
    governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard
    these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its
    operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its
    methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to
    changing economic and political conditions.


 


    As a result of the Merger, Merck has expanded its operations in
    countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa,
    Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing
    areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important
    opportunities for growth over time.


 


    Financial information about geographic areas of the
    Company’s business is discussed in Item 8.
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    The Company’s Internet website address is
    www.merck.com. The Company will make available,
    free of charge at the “Investor Information” portion
    of its website, its Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to





    
    22



Table of Contents





    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such
    reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).


 


    The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the
    charters of the Board of Directors’ six standing committees
    are available on the Company’s website at
    www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such
    information is available in print to any stockholder who
    requests it from the Company.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    Investors should carefully consider all of the information set
    forth in this
    Form 10-K,
    including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest
    in any of the Company’s securities. The risks below are not
    the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not currently
    known to the Company or that the Company presently deems
    immaterial may also impair its business operations. The
    Company’s business, financial condition, results of
    operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected
    by any of these risks. This
    Form 10-K
    also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
    uncertainties. The Company’s results could materially
    differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking
    statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks
    it faces as described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary
    Factors that May Affect Future Results” below.


 


    Certain of the Company’s major products are going to
    lose patent protection in the near future and, when that occurs,
    the Company expects a significant decline in sales of those
    products.


 


    The Company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive
    marketing rights for its products for some period of time. As
    product patents for several of the Company’s products have
    recently expired, or are about to expire, in the United States
    and in other countries, the Company faces strong competition
    from lower priced generic drugs. Loss of patent protection for
    one of the Company’s products typically leads to a rapid
    loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions
    of that drug become available. In the case of products that
    contribute significantly to the Company’s sales, the loss
    of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations,
    financial position and prospects. The patents that provide U.S.
    market exclusivity for Cozaar and Hyzaar expire in
    April 2010. In addition, the patent for Cozaar will
    expire in a number of major European markets in March 2010.
    Hyzaar lost patent protection in major European markets
    in February 2010. The Company expects significant declines
    in sales of these products after such times. In addition, the
    patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for
    Singulair expires in August 2012. The Company expects
    that within the two years following patent expiration, it will
    lose substantially all U.S. sales of Singulair, with
    most of those declines coming in the first full year following
    patent expiration. Also, the patent for Singulair will
    expire in a number of major European markets in August 2012 and
    the Company expects sales of Singulair in those markets
    will decline significantly thereafter.


 


    A chart listing the U.S. patent protection for the
    Company’s major marketed products is set forth above in
    Item 1. “Business — Patents, Trademarks and
    Licenses.”


 


    Key Company products generate a significant amount of the
    Company’s profits and cash flows, and any events that
    adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have
    a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    The Company’s ability to generate profits and operating
    cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of
    the Company’s key products, such as Singulair,
    Remicade, Vytorin, Zetia, Januvia, Nasonex and
    Gardasil. As a result of the Company’s dependence on
    key products, any event that adversely affects any of these
    products or the markets for any of these products could have a
    significant impact on results of operations and cash flows.
    These events could include loss of patent protection (as in the
    recent case of Temodar), increased costs associated with
    manufacturing, generic or OTC availability of the Company’s
    product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously
    unknown side effects, increased competition from the
    introduction of new, more effective treatments and
    discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for
    any reason.


 


    The Company’s research and development efforts may not
    succeed in developing commercially successful products and the
    Company may not be able to acquire commercially successful
    products in other ways; in consequence, the Company may not be
    able to replace sales of successful products that have lost
    patent protection.




    
    23



Table of Contents





    Like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain
    competitive, the Company must continue to launch new products
    each year. Declines in sales of products, such as Fosamax,
    Cozaar and Hyzaar, after the loss of market
    exclusivity mean that the Company’s future success is
    dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new
    products which it may develop through joint ventures and
    products which it is able to obtain through license or
    acquisition. To accomplish this, the Company commits substantial
    effort, funds and other resources to research and development,
    both through its own dedicated resources and through various
    collaborations with third parties. There is a high rate of
    failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat
    diseases. As a result, there is a high risk that funds invested
    by the Company in research programs will not generate financial
    returns. This risk profile is compounded by the fact that this
    research has a long investment cycle. To bring a pharmaceutical
    compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or
    more and failure can occur at any point in the process,
    including later in the process after significant funds have been
    invested.


 


    For a description of the research and development process, see
    “Research and Development” above. Each phase of
    testing is highly regulated, and during each phase there is a
    substantial risk that the Company will encounter serious
    obstacles or will not achieve its goals, and accordingly the
    Company may abandon a product in which it has invested
    substantial amounts of time and resources. Some of the risks
    encountered in the research and development process include the
    following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield
    disappointing results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be
    successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful
    side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the FDA for its
    intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a
    new drug; or sales of a new product may be disappointing.


 


    The Company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of
    its products now under development will be approved or launched;
    whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire
    compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any
    products, once launched, will be commercially successful. The
    Company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new
    products and successful new indications or brand extensions for
    existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial
    research and development costs and to replace sales that are
    lost as profitable products, such as Fosamax, Cozaar and
    Hyzaar, lose patent protection or are displaced by
    competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short
    term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business, results of operations, cash flow,
    financial position and prospects.


 


    The Company’s success is dependent on the successful
    development and marketing of new products, which are subject to
    substantial risks.


 


    Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach
    market for numerous reasons, including the following:


 




    
    



        •  

        findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of
    competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or
    pre-clinical testing;




 



        •  

        failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including
    delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and
    increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain
    regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by
    regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals;




 



        •  

        lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other
    factors; and




 



        •  

        preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of
    others.





 


    In connection with the Merger, the Company is assessing its
    pipeline to identify the most promising,
    high-potential
    compounds for development. The Company has completed the
    prioritization of its clinical development programs. The Company
    is continuing to work on the prioritization of its value adding
    programs related to currently marketed products and to its
    preclinical/discovery programs. The Company anticipates that the
    full prioritization process will be completed by the first half
    of 2010. In connection with this process, the Company may
    recognize non-cash impairment charges for the cancellation of
    certain legacy Schering-Plough pipeline programs that were
    measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the
    Merger. These
    non-cash
    impairment charges, which are anticipated to be excluded from
    the Company’s non-GAAP earnings, could be material to the
    Company’s future GAAP earnings.




    
    24



Table of Contents




 


    The Company’s products, including products in
    development, can not be marketed unless the Company obtains and
    maintains regulatory approval.


 


    The Company’s activities, including research, preclinical
    testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its
    products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous
    federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United
    States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory
    authorities, including the EC. In the United States, the FDA is
    of particular importance to the Company, as it administers
    requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements have increased the amount of time and money
    necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in
    the United States. Regulation outside the United States also is
    primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many
    cases, cost reduction. The FDA and foreign regulatory
    authorities have substantial discretion to require additional
    testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing
    approval and to mandate product withdrawals.


 


    Even if the Company is successful in developing new products, it
    will not be able to market any of those products unless and
    until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each
    jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. Once
    obtained, the Company must maintain approval as long as it plans
    to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval
    is required. The Company’s failure to obtain approval,
    significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to
    maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from
    selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is
    obtained, if ever. The Company would not be able to realize
    revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it
    does not have approval.


 


    The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its
    patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business
    would be adversely affected.


 


    Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of
    material importance in the Company’s marketing of human
    health products in the United States and in most major foreign
    markets. Patents covering products that it has introduced
    normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the
    successful marketing and sale of its products. The Company seeks
    patents covering each of its products in each of the markets
    where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful
    patent protection is available.


 


    Even if the Company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its
    products, third parties or government authorities may challenge
    or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent
    applications. It is important for the Company’s business to
    defend successfully the patent rights that provide market
    exclusivity for its products. The Company is often involved in
    patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or
    infringement and similar claims against the Company. The Company
    aggressively defends its important patents both within and
    outside the United States, including by filing claims of
    infringement against other parties. See Item 3. “Legal
    Proceedings — Patent Litigation” below. In
    particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products
    from time to time file Abbreviated New Drug Applications
    (“ANDA”) with the FDA seeking to market generic forms
    of the Company’s products prior to the expiration of
    relevant patents owned by the Company. The Company normally
    responds by vigorously defending its patent, including by filing
    lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Patent litigation and
    other challenges to the Company’s patents are costly and
    unpredictable and may deprive the Company of market exclusivity
    for a patented product or, in some cases, third party patents
    may prevent the Company from marketing and selling a product in
    a particular geographic area.


 


    Additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that
    compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of
    national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales
    and profits from those regions and negatively affect the
    Company’s results of operations. Further, recent court
    decisions relating to other companies’ U.S. patents,
    potential U.S. legislation relating to patent reform, as
    well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of
    intellectual property protection.


 


    If one or more important products lose patent protection in
    profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to
    decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those
    products becoming available and, in the case of certain
    products, such a loss could result in an impairment charge. The
    Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected
    by the lost sales unless and until the Company has successfully
    launched commercially successful replacement products.




    
    25



Table of Contents





    The Company’s hypertension products Cozaar and
    Hyzaar will each lose patent protection in the
    United States in April 2010. In addition, the patent for
    Cozaar will expire in a number of major European markets
    in March 2010. Hyzaar lost patent protection in
    major European markets in February 2010. The Company
    expects significant declines in the sales of these products
    after such times. In addition, the patent that provides
    U.S. market exclusivity for Singulair expires in
    August 2012. The Company expects that within the two years
    following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all
    U.S. sales of Singulair, with most of those declines
    coming in the first full year following patent expiration. Also,
    the patent for Singulair will expire in a number of major
    European markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of
    Singulair in those markets will decline significantly
    thereafter.


 


    The Company faces intense competition from lower-cost generic
    products.


 


    In general, the Company faces increasing competition from
    lower-cost generic products. The patent rights that protect its
    products are of varying strengths and durations. In addition, in
    some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than
    in the United States or the EU. In the United States, political
    pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to
    legislation which encourages the use of generic products.
    Although it is the Company’s policy to actively protect its
    patent rights, generic challenges to the Company’s products
    can arise at any time, and it may not be able to prevent the
    emergence of generic competition for its products.


 


    Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed
    promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the Company’s
    sales of that product. Availability of generic substitutes for
    the Company’s drugs may adversely affect its results of
    operations and cash flow. In addition, proposals emerge from
    time to time in the United States and other countries for
    legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of
    generic drugs. Any such proposal that is enacted into law could
    worsen this substantial negative effect on the Company’s
    sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of
    operations, financial position and prospects.


 


    The Company faces intense competition from new products.


 


    The Company’s products face intense competition from
    competitors’ products. This competition may increase as new
    products enter the market. In such an event, the
    competitors’ products may be safer or more effective or
    more effectively marketed and sold than the Company’s
    products. Alternatively, in the case of generic competition,
    they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at
    a substantially lower price than the Company’s products. As
    a result, if the Company fails to maintain its competitive
    position, this could have a material adverse effect on its
    business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position
    and prospects.


 


    The Company faces pricing pressure with respect to its
    products.


 


    The Company faces increasing pricing pressure globally from
    managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies
    and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s
    sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include
    (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and
    governmental purchasers and (ii) U.S. federal laws and
    regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the
    Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003 (the “2003 Act”). The 2003 Act included a
    prescription drug benefit for individuals that first went into
    effect on January 1, 2006. The increased purchasing power
    of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries
    could result in further pricing pressures.


 


    Outside the United States, numerous major markets have pervasive
    government involvement in funding healthcare and, in that
    regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and
    vaccine products. Consequently, in those markets, the Company is
    subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with
    respect to its products.


 


    The Company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future.


 


    The healthcare industry will continue to be subject to
    increasing regulation and political action.


 


    The Company believes that the healthcare industry will continue
    to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and
    legal action, as future proposals to reform the healthcare
    system are considered by Congress and state legislatures.
    Recently, major health care reform has been introduced and
    passed in both houses of Congress. A final revised bill which
    unifies both versions may be considered and adopted into law.
    Congress may





    
    26



Table of Contents





    also choose not to take action on comprehensive reform and
    instead move to consider more incremental health care proposals
    that may or may not involve pharmaceutical-related issues.


 


    Some of the proposals included in the House and Senate versions
    of health reform could adversely affect the Company’s sales
    and profit margins. If enacted, these proposals could call for
    government intervention in pharmaceutical pricing, changes in
    government reimbursement, or increased rebates and discounts on
    sales related to state and federal government programs among
    other changes. Other proposals that might be enacted that would
    adversely affect our business include legalization of commercial
    drug importation into the United States, and involuntary
    approval of medicines for OTC use. In addition, individual
    states have enacted or proposed regulations that restrict
    certain sales and marketing activities
    and/or
    require tracking and disclosure of payments and other financial
    support to healthcare professionals. Similar regulations may be
    proposed at the federal level. Such regulations could adversely
    affect the Company’s sales and profit margins.


 


    Any of these new legislative initiatives, if enacted, may
    further increase government regulation of or other government
    involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and
    otherwise change the operating environment for healthcare
    companies. Government regulations applicable to the
    Company’s current or future products, or the interpretation
    of existing regulations, might change and thereby prevent the
    Company from marketing some or all of its products and services
    for a period of time or indefinitely.


 


    The Company cannot predict the likelihood of all future changes
    in the healthcare industry in general, or the pharmaceutical
    industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the
    Company’s results of operations, financial condition or
    business.


 


    The Company is experiencing difficulties and delays in the
    manufacturing of certain of its products.


 


    As previously disclosed, Old Merck has, in the past, experienced
    difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other
    products. These issues are continuing, in particular, with
    respect to the manufacture of bulk varicella which is required
    for production of the Company’s varicella zoster
    virus-containing vaccines, such as Varivax, ProQuad and
    Zostavax. Similarly,
    Schering-Plough
    has, in the past, experienced difficulties manufacturing certain
    of its animal health products. The Company is working on these
    issues, but there can be no assurance of when or if these issues
    will be finally resolved.


 


    In addition to the difficulties that the Company is experiencing
    currently, the Company may experience difficulties and delays
    inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure
    of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with
    Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable
    regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to
    manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product
    manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the
    construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing
    facilities, including those intended to support future demand
    for the Company’s products; and (iii) other
    manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in
    manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing
    capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of
    products produced, or physical limitations that could impact
    continuous supply. Manufacturing difficulties can result in
    product shortages, leading to lost sales.


 


    The Company faces significant litigation related to
    Vioxx.


 


    On September 30, 2004, Old Merck voluntarily withdrew
    Vioxx, its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the
    market worldwide. Although Old Merck has settled the major
    portion of the U.S. Product Liability litigation, the
    Company still faces material litigation arising from the
    voluntary withdrawal of Vioxx.


 


    In addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits,
    various purported class actions and individual lawsuits have
    been brought against Old Merck and several current and former
    officers and directors of the Company alleging that Old Merck
    made false and misleading statements regarding Vioxx in
    violation of the federal and state securities laws (all of these
    suits are referred to as the “Vioxx Securities
    Lawsuits”). On April 12, 2007, Judge Chesler granted
    defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint with prejudice.
    Plaintiffs appealed Judge Chesler’s decision to the United
    States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. On
    September 9, 2008, the Third Circuit issued an opinion
    reversing Judge Chesler’s order and remanding the case to
    the District Court. Old Merck filed a petition for a writ of
    certiorari with the United States Supreme Court, which was
    granted. Oral argument was held in the Supreme Court on
    November 30, 2009 and a decision is expected in the first
    half of 2010. While Old Merck’s





    
    27



Table of Contents





    petition for certiorari was pending, plaintiffs filed their
    Consolidated and Fifth Amended Class Action Complaint in
    the District Court. On May 1, 2009, defendants moved to
    dismiss the Fiffth Amended Class Action Complaint; that
    motion has been withdrawn without prejudice to refile it pending
    the outcome in the Supreme Court. In addition, various putative
    class actions have been brought against Old Merck and several
    current and former employees, officers, and directors of the
    Company alleging violations of ERISA. (All of these suits are
    referred to as the “Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits” and,
    together with the Vioxx Securities Lawsuits the
    “Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits”. The Vioxx
    Shareholder Lawsuits are discussed more fully in Item 3.
    “Legal Proceedings” below.) Old Merck has also been
    named as a defendant in actions in various countries outside the
    United States. (All of these suits are referred to as the
    “Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits”.) Old Merck has also
    been sued by ten states, five counties and New York City with
    respect to the marketing of Vioxx.


 


    The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) has issued
    subpoenas requesting information relating to Old Merck’s
    research, marketing and selling activities with respect to
    Vioxx in a federal health care investigation under
    criminal statutes. This investigation includes subpoenas for
    witnesses to appear before a grand jury. There are also ongoing
    investigations by local authorities in Europe. The Company is
    cooperating with authorities in all of these investigations.
    (All of these investigations are referred to as the
    “Vioxx Investigations”.) The Company cannot
    predict the outcome of any of these investigations; however,
    they could result in potential civil
    and/or
    criminal remedies.


 


    The Vioxx product liability litigation is discussed more
    fully in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below. A
    trial in a representative action in Australia concluded on
    June 25, 2009, in the Federal Court of Australia. The named
    plaintiff, who alleges he suffered an MI, seeks to represent
    others in Australia who ingested Vioxx and suffered an
    MI, thrombotic stroke, unstable angina, transient ischemic
    attack or peripheral vascular disease. The trial judge has
    reserved decision in this matter.


 


    The Company currently anticipates that two U.S. Vioxx
    Product Liability Lawsuits will be tried in 2010. The
    Company cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to
    the Vioxx Litigation. The Company believes that it has
    meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Product Liability
    Lawsuits, Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits and Vioxx
    Foreign Lawsuits (collectively, the “Vioxx
    Lawsuits”) and will vigorously defend against them. The
    Company’s insurance coverage with respect to the Vioxx
    Lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and
    any losses.


 


    During 2009, Merck spent approximately $244 million in the
    aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide related to
    (i) the Vioxx Lawsuits, and (ii) the Vioxx
    Investigations (collectively, the “Vioxx
    Litigation”). In 2009, Merck recorded charges of
    $75 million, including $35 million in the fourth
    quarter, to add to the reserve solely for its future legal
    defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation which was
    $279 million at December 31, 2008 and
    $110 million (the “Vioxx Reserve”) at
    December 31, 2009. The amount of the Vioxx Reserve
    is based on certain assumptions, described below under
    Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”, and is the best
    estimate of the minimum amount that the Company believes will be
    incurred in connection with the remaining aspects of the
    Vioxx Litigation, however, events such as additional
    trials in the Vioxx Litigation and other events that
    could arise in the course of the Vioxx Litigation could
    affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to be incurred by
    the Company.


 


    The Company is not currently able to estimate any additional
    amounts that it may be required to pay in connection with the
    Vioxx Lawsuits or Vioxx Investigations. These
    proceedings are still expected to continue for years and the
    Company cannot predict the course the proceedings will take. In
    view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of
    litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the
    claimants seek unspecified damages, the Company is unable to
    predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot
    reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with
    respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the
    Settlement Program. Other than a reserve established in
    connection with the settlement of the shareholder derivative
    actions discussed below under Item 3. “Legal
    Proceedings”, the Company has not established any reserves
    for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx
    Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program or the
    Vioxx Investigations.


 


    A series of unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx Lawsuits or
    the Vioxx Investigations, resulting in the payment of
    substantial damages or fines or resulting in criminal penalties,
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position
    and prospects.




    
    28



Table of Contents





    Issues concerning Vytorin and the ENHANCE and SEAS
    clinical trials have had an adverse effect on sales of
    Vytorin and Zetia in the United States and results
    from ongoing trials could have an adverse effect on such
    sales.


 


    The Company sells Vytorin and Zetia. As previously
    disclosed, in January 2008, the legacy companies announced
    the results of the ENHANCE clinical trial, an imaging trial in
    720 patients with heterozygous familial
    hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very
    high levels of LDL “bad” cholesterol and greatly
    increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. As
    previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin
    10/80 mg (Vytorin) significantly lowered LDL
    “bad” cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg
    alone, there was no significant difference between treatment
    with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the
    pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of
    carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound.
    The IMPROVE-IT trial is underway and is designed to provide
    cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in
    patients with acute coronary syndrome. No incremental benefit of
    ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality
    over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been
    established. In January 2009, the FDA announced that it had
    completed its review of the final clinical study report of
    ENHANCE. The FDA stated that the results from ENHANCE did not
    change its position that elevated LDL cholesterol is a risk
    factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering LDL
    cholesterol reduces the risk for cardiovascular disease. For a
    discussion concerning litigation arising out of the ENHANCE
    study, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below.


 


    As previously disclosed, the legacy companies have received
    several letters addressed to both companies from the House
    Committee on Energy and Commerce, its Subcommittee on Oversight
    and Investigations (“O&I”), and the Ranking
    Minority Member of the Senate Finance Committee, collectively
    seeking a combination of witness interviews, documents and
    information on a variety of issues related to the ENHANCE
    clinical trial, the sale and promotion of Vytorin, as
    well as sales of stock by corporate officers. In addition, the
    legacy companies received three additional letters from
    O&I, seeking certain information and documents related to
    the SEAS clinical trial, which is described in more detail
    below. The legacy companies also each received subpoenas from
    the New York and New Jersey State Attorneys General Offices and
    a letter from the Connecticut Attorney General seeking similar
    information and documents. Finally, in September 2008, the
    legacy companies received a letter from the Civil Division of
    the DOJ informing it that the DOJ is investigating whether the
    companies’ conduct relating to the promotion of Vytorin
    caused false claims to be submitted to federal health care
    programs. The Company is cooperating with these investigations.
    As previously disclosed, a number of shareholder lawsuits
    arising out of the ENHANCE study have been brought against Old
    Merck and Schering-Plough.


 


    In July 2008, efficacy and safety results from the SEAS study
    were announced. SEAS was designed to evaluate whether intensive
    lipid lowering with Vytorin 10/40 mg would reduce
    the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk of
    cardiovascular morbidity and mortality versus placebo in
    patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who
    had no indication for statin therapy. Vytorin failed to
    meet its primary endpoint for the reduction of major
    cardiovascular events. In the study, patients in the group who
    took Vytorin 10/40 mg had a higher incidence of
    cancer than the group who took placebo. There was also a
    nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the
    group who took Vytorin versus those who took placebo.
    Cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ
    systems. The Company believes the cancer finding in SEAS is
    likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light of all the
    available data, does not support an association with
    Vytorin. In August 2008, the FDA announced that it was
    investigating the results from the SEAS trial. In December 2009,
    the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the data
    from the SEAS trial as well as a review of interim data from the
    SHARP and IMPROVE-IT trials. Based on currently available
    information, the FDA indicated it believed it is unlikely that
    Vytorin or Zetia increase the risk of
    cancer-related death. The SHARP trial is expected to be
    completed in 2010. The IMPROVE-IT trial is scheduled for
    completion in 2013. In the IMPROVE-IT trial, a blinded interim
    efficacy analysis will be conducted by the Data Safety
    Monitoring Board for the trial when approximately 50% of the
    endpoints have been accrued. That interim analysis is expected
    to be conducted in 2010. If, based on the results of the interim
    analysis, the trial were to be halted because of concerns
    related to Vytorin, that could have a material adverse
    effect on sales of Vytorin and Zetia. Similarly,
    as noted above, the SHARP trial is expected to be completed in
    2010. Negative results from the SHARP trial could also have an
    adverse affect on the sales of Vytorin and Zetia.




    
    29



Table of Contents





    Following the announcements of the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical
    trial results, sales of Vytorin and Zetia declined
    in 2008 and 2009 in the United States. These issues concerning
    the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trials have had an adverse effect
    on sales of Vytorin and Zetia and could continue
    to have an adverse effect on such sales. If sales of such
    products are materially adversely affected, the Company’s
    business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position
    and prospects could also be materially adversely affected. In
    addition, unfavorable outcomes resulting from the litigation
    concerning the sale and promotion of these products could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash
    flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.


 


    An arbitration proceeding commenced by Centocor against
    Schering-Plough may result in the Company’s loss of the
    rights to market Remicade and Simponi.


 


    A subsidiary of the Company is a party to a Distribution
    Agreement with Centocor, now a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Johnson & Johnson, under which the Schering-Plough
    subsidiary has rights to distribute and commercialize the
    rheumatoid arthritis treatment Remicade and
    Simponi, a next-generation treatment, in certain
    territories.


 


    Under Section 8.2(c) of the Distribution Agreement,
    “If either party is acquired by a third party or otherwise
    comes under Control (as defined in Section 1.4 [of the
    Distribution Agreement]) of a third party, it will promptly
    notify the other party not subject to such change of control.
    The party not subject to such change of control will have the
    right, however not later than thirty (30) days from such
    notification, to notify in writing the party subject to the
    change of Control of the termination of the Agreement taking
    effect immediately. As used herein ‘Change of Control’
    shall mean (i) any merger, reorganization, consolidation or
    combination in which a party to this Agreement is not the
    surviving corporation; or (ii) any ‘person’
    (within the meaning of Section 13(d) and
    Section 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934),
    excluding a party’s Affiliates, is or becomes the
    beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the
    party representing more than fifty percent (50%) of either
    (A) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the
    party or (B) the combined voting power of the party’s
    then-outstanding voting securities; or (iii) if individuals
    who as of the Effective Date [April 3, 1998] constitute the
    Board of Directors of the party (the ‘Incumbent
    Board’) cease for any reason to constitute at least a
    majority of the Board of Directors of the party; provided,
    however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to
    the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by
    the party’s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at
    least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent
    Board shall be considered as though such individual were a
    member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose,
    any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as
    a result of an actual or threatened election contest with
    respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual
    or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on
    behalf of a person other than the Board; or (iv) approval
    by the shareholders of a party of a complete liquidation or the
    complete dissolution of such party.”


 


    Section 1.4 of the Distribution Agreement defines
    “Control” to mean “the ability of any entity (the
    ‘Controlling’ entity), directly or indirectly, through
    ownership of securities, by agreement or by any other method, to
    direct the manner in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the
    outstanding voting rights of any other entity (the
    ‘Controlled’ entity), whether or not represented by
    securities, shall be cast, or the right to receive over fifty
    percent (50%) of the profits or earnings of, or to otherwise
    control the management decisions of, such other entity (also a
    ‘Controlled’ entity).”


 


    On May 27, 2009, Centocor delivered to Schering-Plough a
    notice initiating an arbitration proceeding to resolve whether,
    as a result of the proposed Merger, Centocor is permitted to
    terminate the Distribution Agreement and related agreements. As
    part of the arbitration process, Centocor will take the position
    that it has the right to terminate the Distribution Agreement on
    the grounds that, in the Merger, Schering-Plough and the
    Schering-Plough subsidiary party to the Distribution Agreement
    were (i) “acquired by a third party or otherwise
    come[ing] under “Control’ (as defined in
    Section 1.4) of a third party”
    and/or
    (ii) undergoing a “Change of Control” (as defined
    in Section 8.2(c)). A hearing in the arbitration is
    scheduled to commence in late September 2010. Sales of
    Remicade and Simponi included in the
    Company’s results for the post-Merger period were
    $430.7 million and $3.9 million, respectively. Sales
    of Remicade recognized by Schering-Plough in 2009 prior
    to the Merger were $1.9 billion.


 


    The Company is vigorously contesting Centocor’s attempt to
    terminate the Distribution Agreement as a result of the Merger.
    However, if the arbitrator were to conclude that Centocor is
    permitted to terminate the Distribution Agreement as a result of
    the Merger and Centocor in fact terminates the Distribution
    Agreement, the





    
    30



Table of Contents





    Company’s subsidiary would not be able to distribute
    Remicade or Simponi. In addition, in the
    arbitration, Centocor is claiming damages, “in an amount to
    be determined”, that result from Merck’s alleged
    non-termination of the Distribution Agreement. If Centocor were
    to prevail in the arbitration, Merck could be liable for the net
    damages, including any offsets or mitigation, that the
    arbitration panel finds Centocor incurred as a result of
    non-termination and the Company would suffer an impairment
    charge. An unfavorable outcome in the arbitration would have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
    position, liquidity and results of operations.


 


    Finally, due to the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the
    arbitration, the parties may choose to settle the dispute under
    mutually agreeable terms but any agreement reached with Centocor
    to resolve the dispute under the Distribution Agreement may
    result in the terms of the Distribution Agreement being modified
    in a manner that may reduce the benefits of the Distribution
    Agreement to the Company.


 


    Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or
    efficacy concerns.


 


    Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to
    marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified,
    leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as
    well as product liability, consumer fraud
    and/or other
    claims.


 


    Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the
    Company’s business.


 


    All aspects of the Company’s business, including research
    and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales,
    litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to
    extensive legislation and regulation. Changes in applicable
    federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s business.


 


    Reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing
    arrangements could adversely affect the Company’s
    business.


 


    The Company depends on third parties, including suppliers,
    alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,
    and third party service providers, for key aspects of its
    business including development, manufacture and
    commercialization of its products and support for its
    information technology systems. Failure of these third parties
    to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to
    the Company or the development of factors that materially
    disrupt the relationships between the Company and these third
    parties could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business.


 


    The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated
    information technology and infrastructure.


 


    The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated
    information technology and infrastructure. Any significant
    breakdown, intrusion, interruption or corruption of these
    systems or data breaches could have a material adverse effect on
    our business. In addition, the Company currently is proceeding
    with a multi-year implementation of an enterprise wide resource
    planning system, which includes modification to the design,
    operation and documentation of its internal controls over
    financial reporting, and intends to implement the resource
    planning system in the United States in 2010. Any material
    problems in the implementation could have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s business.


 


    Developments following regulatory approval may adversely
    affect sales of the Company’s products.


 


    Even after a product reaches market, certain developments
    following regulatory approval, including results in
    post-marketing Phase IV trials, may decrease demand for the
    Company’s products, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    the re-review of products that are already marketed;




 



     
        •  

    
    new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories;




 



     
        •  

    
    the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are
    already marketed;




 



     
        •  

    
    changing government standards or public expectations regarding
    safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and




 



     
        •  

    
    greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion.







    
    31



Table of Contents




 


    In the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing
    surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the Company and of
    competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns that
    have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed
    products. Clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of
    certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some
    prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of
    pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected
    the sales of such products. In addition, increased scrutiny of
    the outcomes of clinical trials have led to increased volatility
    in market reaction. Further, these matters often attract
    litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is
    groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond.


 


    In addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other
    significant safety issues, health authorities such as the FDA,
    the European Medicines Agency (“EMEA”) and the
    Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency have increased their
    focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of
    drugs. Some health authorities appear to have become more
    cautious when making decisions about approvability of new
    products or indications and are re-reviewing select products
    that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties
    in the regulatory processes. There is also greater regulatory
    scrutiny, especially in the United States, on advertising and
    promotion and, in particular,
    direct-to-consumer
    advertising.


 


    If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is
    an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects
    of any of the Company’s products, it could significantly
    reduce demand for the product or require the Company to take
    actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing
    the product from the market, restricting its distribution or
    applying for labeling changes. Further, in the current
    environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the
    Company is at risk for product liability claims for its products.


 


    Negative events in the animal health industry could have a
    negative impact on future results of operations.


 


    Future sales of key animal health products could be adversely
    impacted by a number of risk factors including certain risks
    that are specific to the animal health business. For example,
    the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as Bovine
    Spongiform Encephalopathy (“BSE”) or mad cow disease,
    could lead to their widespread death and precautionary
    destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for
    animals, which could adversely impact the Company’s results
    of operations. Also, the outbreak of any highly contagious
    diseases near the Company’s main production sites could
    require the Company to immediately halt production of vaccines
    at such sites or force the Company to incur substantial expenses
    in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. Other risks
    specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics,
    government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global
    agribusiness economic events. As the Animal Health segment of
    the Company’s business becomes more significant, the impact
    of any such events on future results of operations would also
    become more significant.


 


    Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could
    have a negative impact on future results of operations.


 


    The successful development, testing, manufacturing and
    commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal
    health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process.
    There are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    There may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased
    tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains
    and other biological materials. In addition, government
    regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the United States
    and European states within the EU, could result in restricted
    access to, or transport or use of, such materials. If the
    Company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or
    if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such
    materials, the Company may not be able to conduct research
    activities as planned and may incur additional development costs.




 



     
        •  

    
    The development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are
    subject to regulation by the FDA, the EMEA and other regulatory
    bodies. These regulations are often more complex and extensive
    than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical
    products. For example, in the United States, a BLA, including
    both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data
    regarding the manufacturing








    
    32



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and FDA
    approval is required for the release of each manufactured lot.





 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is
    often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies
    to handle living micro-organisms. Each lot of an approved
    biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength,
    quality, purity and potency. Manufacturing biologics requires
    facilities specifically designed for and validated for this
    purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control
    procedures are necessary. Slight deviations anywhere in the
    manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging,
    storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result
    in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. When changes are
    made to the manufacturing process, the Company may be required
    to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable
    identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products
    before and after such changes.




 



     
        •  

    
    Biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because
    production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant
    material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. In
    particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be
    difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines.




 



     
        •  

    
    The use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to
    allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions,
    or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination.
    Any of these events could result in substantial costs.




 



     
        •  

    
    There currently is no process in the United States for the
    submission or approval of generic biologics based upon
    abbreviated data packages or a showing of sameness to another
    approved biologic, but there is public dialogue at the FDA and
    in Congress regarding the scientific and statutory basis upon
    which such products, known as biosimilars or follow-on
    biologics, could be approved and marketed in the United States.
    The Company cannot be certain when Congress will create a
    statutory pathway for the approval of biosimilars, and the
    Company cannot predict what impact, if any, the approval of
    biosimilars would have on the sales of Company products in the
    United States. In Europe, however, the EMEA has issued
    guidelines for approving biological products through an
    abbreviated pathway, and biosimilars have been approved in
    Europe. If a biosimilar version of one of the Company’s
    products were approved in Europe, it could have a negative
    effect on sales of the product.





 


    The Company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in
    currency exchange rates and interest rates.


 


    The Company operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such,
    virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local
    jurisdiction. Additionally, the Company has entered and will
    enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial
    transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate
    exposure.


 


    Since the Company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate
    against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the
    Company’s results of operations, financial position and
    cash flows.


 


    In order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market
    fluctuations, the Company will from time to time enter into
    hedging agreements. While hedging agreements, such as currency
    options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure
    to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts
    to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful.


 


    The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws,
    which may result in additional liabilities that may affect
    results of operations.


 


    The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the
    jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is
    required for determining the Company’s tax liabilities, and
    the Company’s tax returns are periodically examined by
    various tax authorities. The Company believes that its accrual
    for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on
    past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about
    potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the
    complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any
    tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts
    accrued.


 


    In February 2010, President Obama’s administration proposed
    significant changes to the U.S. international tax laws,
    including changes that would limit U.S. tax deductions for
    expenses related to un-repatriated





    
    33



Table of Contents





    foreign-source income and modify the U.S. foreign tax
    credit rules. We cannot determine whether these proposals will
    be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such
    proposals prior to their being enacted into law. If these or
    other changes to the U.S. international tax laws are
    enacted, they could have a significant impact on the financial
    results of the Company.


 


    In addition, the Company may be impacted by changes in tax laws,
    including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the
    remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations
    impacting the U.S. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new
    tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and
    foreign jurisdictions.


 


    The Company may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings,
    revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from the
    Merger, which could adversely affect the value of the
    Company’s common stock.


 


    The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on the
    Company’s ability to successfully combine the businesses of
    Old Merck and Schering-Plough and realize the anticipated
    benefits and cost savings from the combination of the two
    companies. If the combined company is not able to achieve these
    objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the
    value of the Company’s common stock may be adversely
    affected.


 


    It is possible that the integration process could result in the
    loss of key employees, result in the disruption of each legacy
    company’s ongoing businesses or identify inconsistencies in
    standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely
    affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers,
    suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, clinical trial
    investigators or managers or to achieve the anticipated benefits
    of the Merger.


 


    Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the
    operations of the two legacy companies in order to realize the
    anticipated benefits of the Merger include, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    integrating the research and development, manufacturing,
    distribution, marketing and promotion activities and information
    technology systems of Old Merck and Schering-Plough;




 



     
        •  

    
    conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and
    other policies, business cultures and compensation structures
    between the companies;




 



     
        •  

    
    identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming
    operations and assets; and




 



     
        •  

    
    managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating
    the operations of the combined company.





 


    Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert
    management attention and resources. An inability to realize the
    full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the
    Merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration
    process, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s
    business and results of operations, which may affect the value
    of the shares of Company common stock.


 


    In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and
    unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the
    integration plan may not be realized. Actual cost and sales
    synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than the Company
    expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If the
    Company is not able to adequately address these challenges, it
    may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the
    two legacy companies, or to realize the anticipated benefits of
    the integration of the two legacy companies.


 


    Delays encountered in the integration process could have a
    material adverse effect on the revenues, expenses, operating
    results and financial condition of the Company. Although the
    Company expects significant benefits, such as increased cost
    savings, to result from the Merger, there can be no assurance
    that the Company will realize any of these anticipated benefits.


 


    The Company will incur significant transaction and
    merger-related transition costs in connection with the
    Merger.


 


    The Company will incur significant costs in connection with
    consummating the Merger and integrating the operations of the
    two companies, with a significant portion of such costs being
    incurred through the first year after completion of the Merger.
    The Company continues to assess the magnitude of these costs,
    and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the
    integration of the businesses of the two legacy companies.
    Although the Company believes that the elimination of
    duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other
    efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will
    offset incremental transaction and Merger-related costs over
    time, no assurance can be given that this net benefit will be
    achieved in the near term, or at all.




    
    34



Table of Contents





    The Company’s debt obligations incurred to finance the
    Merger could adversely affect its business.


 


    While the Company’s financing strategy for the Merger was
    focused on preserving financial strength and flexibility to
    continue to invest in the Company’s business and key growth
    drivers post-merger, debt obligations incurred to finance the
    Merger could affect the Company’s flexibility in planning
    for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in
    which it operates, thereby placing it at a competitive
    disadvantage compared to competitors that have less
    indebtedness. Further, if the Company decides to retire or pay
    down indebtedness early it may be required to dedicate a
    substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to do so,
    thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow for other
    purposes, including business development efforts and mergers and
    acquisitions.


 


    Product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost
    prohibitive or unavailable.


 


    As a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance
    has become less available while the cost has increased
    significantly. With respect to product liability, the Company
    self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability
    of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. The Company
    has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of
    obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely
    benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no
    insurance for certain product liabilities effective
    August 1, 2004, including liability for legacy Merck
    products first sold after that date. The Company will
    continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk;
    however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will
    be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover
    product liabilities that may arise.


 


    The Company has significant global operations, which expose
    it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a
    material negative impact on the Company’s results of
    operations.


 


    The extent of the Company’s operations outside the United
    States will be significant due to the fact that the majority of
    Schering-Plough’s legacy operations are outside the United
    States. Risks inherent in conducting a global business include:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and
    pricing restrictions in key markets;




 



     
        •  

    
    multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the
    Company’s ability to manufacture and sell its products in
    key markets;




 



     
        •  

    
    trade protection measures and import or export licensing
    requirements;




 



     
        •  

    
    foreign exchange fluctuations;




 



     
        •  

    
    diminished protection of intellectual property in some
    countries; and




 



     
        •  

    
    possible nationalization and expropriation.





 


    As discussed below, the Venezuelan economy was recently
    determined to be hyperinflationary which requires the Company to
    remeasure its local currency operations there to U.S. dollars
    which remeasurement will be recorded in the first quarter of
    2010. In addition, the Venezuelan government recently devalued
    its currency. These actions will have an adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations, financial position and
    cash flows.


 


    In addition, there may be changes to the Company’s business
    and political position if there is instability, disruption or
    destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of
    cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or
    social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including
    famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease.


 



    Cautionary
    Factors that May Affect Future Results


 


    (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995)


 


    This report, including the Annual Report, and other written
    reports and oral statements made from time to time by the
    Company may contain so-called “forward-looking
    statements,” all of which are based on management’s
    current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties
    which may cause results to differ materially from those set
    forth in the statements. One can identify these forward-looking
    statements by their use of words such as “expects,”
    “plans,” “will,” “estimates,”
    “forecasts,” “projects” and other words of
    similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that
    they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
    These statements are likely to address the Company’s growth
    strategy, financial results, product development, product
    approvals, product





    
    35



Table of Contents





    potential, and development programs. One must carefully consider
    any such statement and should understand that many factors could
    cause actual results to differ materially from the
    Company’s forward-looking statements. These factors include
    inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and
    uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are
    not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual
    future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume
    the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. The
    Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements. Although it is not possible to
    predict or identify all such factors, they may include the
    following:


 




    
    



        •  

        Competition from generic products as the Company’s products
    lose patent protection.




 



        •  

        Increased “brand” competition in therapeutic areas
    important to the Company’s long-term business performance.




 



        •  

        The difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product
    development. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of
    new product development is inherently uncertain. A drug
    candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more
    late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory
    approval. New product candidates may appear promising in
    development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or
    safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory
    approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture
    and/or the
    infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of
    others. Furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be
    disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels.




 



        •  

        Pricing pressures, both in the United States and abroad,
    including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial
    decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to
    Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical
    reimbursement and pricing in general.




 



        •  

        Changes in government laws and regulations and the enforcement
    thereof affecting the Company’s business.




 



        •  

        Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products,
    whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product
    recalls, withdrawals or declining sales.




 



        •  

        Significant litigation related to Vioxx, and Vytorin
    and Zetia.




 



        •  

        The arbitration proceeding involving the Company’s right to
    distribute Remicade and Simponi.




 



        •  

        Legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust
    litigation and governmental investigations, including tax
    disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with
    branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude
    commercialization of products or negatively affect the
    profitability of existing products.




 



        •  

        Lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties
    in the approval process of the FDA and foreign regulatory
    authorities.




 



        •  

        Increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world,
    including the United States and the EU. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on
    privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect
    directly the Company’s business, including recently enacted
    laws in a majority of states in the United States requiring
    security breach notification.




 



        •  

        Changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of
    foreign earnings.




 



        •  

        Changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by
    standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board and the SEC, that are adverse to the
    Company.




 



        •  

        Economic factors over which the Company has no control,
    including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign
    currency exchange rates.





 


    This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of
    all potential risks and uncertainties. See “Risk
    Factors” above.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B