Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Schering-Plough’s future operating results and cash flows
    may differ materially from the results described in this
    10-K due to
    risks and uncertainties related to Schering-Plough’s
    business, including those discussed



    
    14



Table of Contents




    below. In addition, these factors represent risks and
    uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
    materially from those implied by forward-looking statements
    contained in this report.


 



    Key
    Schering-Plough products generate a significant amount of
    Schering-Plough’s profits and cash flows, and any events
    that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could
    have a material and negative impact on results of operations and
    cash flows.


 


    Schering-Plough’s ability to generate profits and operating
    cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of
    Schering-Plough’s cholesterol franchise, consisting of
    VYTORIN and ZETIA, and other key products such as REMICADE,
    TEMODAR, NASONEX, PEGINTRON, CLARINEX, FOLLISTIM, CLARITIN,
    REMERON and NUVARING. As a result of Schering-Plough’s
    dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any
    of these products or the markets for any of these products could
    have a significant impact on results of operations and cash
    flows. These events could include loss of patent protection,
    increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or OTC
    availability of Schering-Plough’s product or a competitive
    product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects,
    increased competition from the introduction of new, more
    effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the
    market of the product for any reason.


 



    There
    is a high risk that funds invested in research will not generate
    financial returns because the development of novel drugs
    requires significant expenditures with a low probability of
    success.


 


    There is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to
    develop new drugs to treat diseases. As a result, there is a
    high risk that funds invested by Schering-Plough in research
    programs will not generate financial returns. This risk profile
    is compounded by the fact that this research has a long
    investment cycle. To bring a pharmaceutical compound from the
    discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure
    can occur at any point in the process, including later in the
    process after significant funds have been invested.


 



    Schering-Plough’s
    success is dependent on the successful development and marketing
    of new products, which are subject to substantial
    risks.


 


    Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach
    market for numerous reasons, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of
    competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or
    pre-clinical testing;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including
    delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and
    increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain
    regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by
    regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other
    factors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of
    others.





 



    Intellectual
    property protection for innovation is an important contributor
    to Schering-Plough’s profitability. Generic forms of
    Schering-Plough’s products may be introduced to the market
    as a result of the expiration of patents covering
    Schering-Plough’s products, a successful challenge to
    Schering-Plough’s patents, or the “at-risk”
    launch of a generic version of a Schering-Plough product, which
    may have a material and negative effect on results of
    operations.


 


    Intellectual property protection is critical to
    Schering-Plough’s ability to successfully commercialize its
    products. Patents relating to Schering-Plough’s significant
    products may be of material importance to Schering-Plough. Upon
    the expiration or the successful challenge of
    Schering-Plough’s patents covering a product, competitors
    may introduce lower-priced generic or similar branded versions
    of that product, which may include Schering-Plough’s
    well-established products.


 


    A generic manufacturer may file an Abbreviated New Drug
    Application seeking approval after the expiration of the
    applicable data exclusivity and alleging that one or more of the
    patents listed in the



    
    15



Table of Contents




    innovator’s New Drug Application are invalid, not infringed
    or unenforceable. This allegation is commonly known as a
    Paragraph IV certification. The innovator then has the
    ability to file suit against the generic manufacturer to enforce
    its patents. Generic manufacturers have used Paragraph IV
    certifications extensively to challenge patents on a wide array
    of innovative pharmaceuticals, and it is anticipated that this
    trend will continue. In recent years, some generic manufacturers
    have launched generic versions of products before the ultimate
    resolution of patent litigation (commonly known as
    “at-risk” product launches). Generic entry may result
    in the loss of a significant portion of sales or downward
    pressures on the prices at which Schering-Plough offers formerly
    patented products. Please refer to “Legal Proceedings”
    in Item 3 in this
    10-K for
    descriptions of pending intellectual property litigation.


 


    Additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that
    compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of
    national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales
    and profits from those regions and negatively affect
    Schering-Plough’s results of operations. Further, recent
    court decisions relating to other companies’
    U.S. patents, potential U.S. legislation relating to
    patent reform, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in
    further erosion of intellectual property protection.


 



    Patent
    disputes can be costly to prosecute and defend and adverse
    judgments could result in damage awards, increased royalties and
    other similar payments and decreased sales.


 


    Patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes in
    the pharmaceutical industry are not unusual. An adverse result
    in a patent dispute involving Schering-Plough’s patents, or
    the patents of its collaborators, may lead to a determination by
    a court that the patent is not infringed, is invalid,
    and/or is
    unenforceable. Such an adverse determination could lead to
    Schering-Plough’s loss of market exclusivity. An adverse
    result in a patent dispute alleging that Schering-Plough has
    infringed patents held by a third party may lead to a
    determination by a court that the patent is infringed, valid,
    and enforceable. Such an adverse determination may preclude the
    commercialization of Schering-Plough’s products
    and/or may
    lead to significant financial damages for past and ongoing
    infringement. Due to the uncertainty surrounding patent
    litigation, parties may settle patent disputes by obtaining a
    license under mutually agreeable terms in order to decrease risk
    of an interruption in manufacturing
    and/or
    marketing of its products.


 


    The potential for litigation regarding Schering-Plough’s
    intellectual property rights always exists and litigation may be
    initiated by third parties attempting to abridge
    Schering-Plough’s rights. Even if Schering-Plough is
    ultimately successful in a particular dispute, Schering-Plough
    may incur substantial costs in defending its patents and other
    intellectual property rights. See “Patent Challenges Under
    the Hatch-Waxman Act” in Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings” for a list of current Paragraph IV
    certifications for Schering-Plough products.


 



    Multi-jurisdictional
    regulations, including those establishing Schering-Plough’s
    ability to price products, may negatively affect
    Schering-Plough’s sales and profit margins.


 


    Schering-Plough faces increasing pricing pressure globally from
    managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies
    and programs that could negatively affect Schering-Plough’s
    sales and profit margins. For example, in the U.S., the Medicare
    Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003
    contains a prescription drug benefit for individuals who are
    eligible for Medicare. The prescription drug benefit became
    effective on January 1, 2006, and has resulted in increased
    use of generics and increased purchasing power of those
    negotiating on behalf of Medicare recipients, which in turn has
    resulted in increased price pressure on Schering-Plough’s
    products.


 


    In addition to legislation concerning price controls, other
    trends could adversely affect Schering-Plough’s sales and
    profit margins. These trends include legislative or regulatory
    action relating to pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement,
    health care reform initiatives, drug importation legislation and
    involuntary approval of medicines for OTC use. These trends also
    include non-governmental initiatives and practices such as
    consolidation among customers, managed care practices and health
    care costs containment. Increasingly, market approval,
    reimbursement of products, prescribers’ practices and
    policies of third-party payors may be



    
    16



Table of Contents




    influenced by health technology assessments by the National
    Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in the UK and other
    such organizations.


 


    In the U.S., as a result of the government’s efforts to
    reduce health care expenditures and other payors’ efforts
    to reduce health care costs, Schering-Plough faces increased
    pricing pressure as payors continue to seek price discounts with
    respect to Schering-Plough’s products.


 


    In other countries, many governmental agencies strictly control,
    directly or indirectly, the prices at which pharmaceutical
    products are sold. In these markets, cost control methods
    including restrictions on physician prescription levels and
    patient reimbursements; emphasis on greater use of generic
    drugs; and across-the-board price cuts may decrease revenues
    internationally.


 



    Through
    the acquisition of OBS, Schering-Plough acquired marketed
    products and pipeline projects in new therapeutic areas,
    including women’s health and central nervous system, each
    of which carry unique risks and uncertainties which could have a
    negative impact on future results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    With its acquisition of OBS, Schering-Plough acquired products
    in additional therapeutic areas. Each therapeutic area presents
    a different risk profile, including different benefits and
    safety issues that must be balanced by Schering-Plough and
    regulators as various research and development and marketing
    decisions are made; unique product liability risks; different
    patient and prescriber priorities; and different societal
    pressures. While adding new therapeutic areas may strengthen
    Schering-Plough’s business by increasing sales and profits;
    making the combined company more relevant to patients and
    prescribers; and diversifying enterprise risk across more areas,
    such positives may not outweigh the additional risk in a
    particular therapeutic area or could result in unanticipated
    costs that could have a significant adverse impact on results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    Market
    forces continue to evolve and can impact Schering-Plough’s
    ability to sell products or the price Schering-Plough can charge
    for products.


 


    A number of intermediaries are involved between drug
    manufacturers, such as Schering-Plough, and patients who use the
    drugs. These intermediaries impact the patient’s ability,
    and their prescribers’ ability, to choose and pay for a
    particular drug, which may adversely affect sales of a
    particular Schering-Plough drug. These intermediaries include
    health care providers, such as hospitals and clinics; payors and
    their representatives, such as employers, insurers, managed care
    organizations and governments; and others in the supply chain,
    such as pharmacists and wholesalers. Examples include: payors
    that require a patient to first fail on one or more generic, or
    less expensive branded drugs, before reimbursing for a more
    effective, branded product that is more expensive; payors that
    are increasing patient co-payment amounts; hospitals that stock
    and administer only a generic product to in-patients; managed
    care organizations that may penalize doctors who prescribe
    outside approved formularies which may not include branded
    products when a generic is available; and pharmacists who
    receive larger revenues when they dispense a generic drug over a
    branded drug. Further, the intermediaries are not required to
    routinely provide transparent data to patients comparing the
    effectiveness of generic and branded products or to disclose
    their own economic benefits that are tied to steering patients
    toward, or requiring patients to use, generic products rather
    than branded products.


 



    Government
    investigations involving Schering-Plough could lead to the
    commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings involving the
    imposition of substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or
    administrative remedies, including exclusion from government
    reimbursement programs, which could give rise to other
    investigations or litigation by government entities or private
    parties.


 


    Schering-Plough cannot predict whether future or pending
    investigations to which it may become subject would lead to a
    judgment or settlement involving a significant monetary award or
    restrictions on its operations.


 


    The pricing, sales and marketing programs and arrangements and
    related business practices of Schering-Plough and other
    participants in the health care industry are under increasing
    scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative,
    prosecutorial and administrative entities. These entities
    include the Department of



    
    17



Table of Contents




    Justice and its U.S. Attorneys’ Offices, the Office of
    Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
    Services, the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission and various
    state Attorneys General offices. Many of the health care laws
    under which certain of these governmental entities operate,
    including the federal and state anti-kickback statutes and
    statutory and common law false claims laws, have been construed
    broadly by the courts and permit the government entities to
    exercise significant discretion. In the event that any of those
    governmental entities believes that wrongdoing has occurred, one
    or more of them could institute civil or criminal proceedings
    which, if resolved unfavorably, could subject Schering-Plough to
    substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative
    remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement
    programs. In addition, an adverse outcome to a government
    investigation could prompt other government entities to commence
    investigations of Schering-Plough or cause those entities or
    private parties to bring civil claims against it.
    Schering-Plough also cannot predict whether any investigations
    will affect its marketing practices or sales. Any such result
    could have a material adverse impact on Schering-Plough’s
    results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or its
    business.


 


    A number of governmental entities in the U.S. have made
    inquiries or initiated investigations into the timing and
    disclosures relating to the ENHANCE clinical trial. These
    include several letters from Congress, investigations by state
    Attorneys General offices, and requests for information from
    U.S. Attorneys’ Offices and the Department of Justice.


 


    Regardless of the merits or outcomes of any investigation,
    government investigations are costly, divert management’s
    attention from Schering-Plough’s business and may result in
    substantial damage to Schering-Plough’s reputation.


 


    See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” —
    “Litigation and Investigations relating to the
    Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Joint Venture” for
    further information about the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol
    joint venture’s ENHANCE clinical trials and related matters.


 



    There
    are other legal matters in which adverse outcomes could
    negatively affect Schering-Plough’s results of operations,
    cash flows, financial condition, or business.


 


    Unfavorable outcomes in other pending litigation matters, or in
    future litigation, including litigation concerning product
    pricing, securities law violations, product liability claims,
    ERISA matters, patent and intellectual property disputes, and
    antitrust matters could preclude the commercialization of
    products, negatively affect the profitability of existing
    products and subject Schering-Plough to substantial fines,
    penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including
    exclusion from government reimbursement programs. Any such
    result could materially and adversely affect
    Schering-Plough’s results of operations, cash flows,
    financial condition, or business.


 


    Further, aggressive plaintiffs counsel often file litigation on
    a wide variety of allegations whenever there is media attention
    or negative discussion about the efficacy or safety of a product
    and whenever the stock price is volatile; even when the
    allegations are groundless, Schering-Plough may need to expend
    considerable funds and other resources to respond to such
    litigation.


 


    Please refer to “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 in
    this 10-K
    for descriptions of significant pending litigation.


 



    Issues
    concerning the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Joint
    Venture’s clinical trials could have a material adverse
    effect on the joint venture’s sales of VYTORIN and ZETIA,
    which in turn could have a material adverse impact on
    Schering-Plough’s financial condition.


 


    See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” —
    “Litigation and Investigations relating to the
    Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Joint Venture” for
    further information about the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol
    joint venture’s ENHANCE clinical trials and related matters.


 


    There was significant negative media surrounding the release of
    the ENHANCE results. As the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol
    joint venture’s ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trial results are
    further reviewed, VYTORIN and ZETIA may receive additional media
    attention, in connection with these and other clinical



    
    18



Table of Contents




    trials, which could lead to reduced sales, or affect enrollment
    in clinical trials. Current or future investigations, analysis
    of the ENHANCE, SEAS, or other clinical trials, data by various
    agencies, litigation concerning the sale and promotion of these
    products, or the securities and other class action litigation
    relating to such matters could, if resolved unfavorably to
    Schering-Plough or the joint venture, have a material adverse
    effect on Schering-Plough’s results of operations, cash
    flow and financial position.


 



    Schering-Plough
    and third parties acting on its behalf are subject to
    governmental regulations, and the failure to comply with, as
    well as the costs of compliance with, these regulations may
    adversely affect Schering-Plough’s results of operations,
    cash flow and financial position.


 


    Manufacturing and research practices of Schering-Plough and
    third parties acting on its behalf must meet stringent
    regulatory standards and are subject to regular inspections. The
    cost of regulatory compliance, including that associated with
    compliance failures, can materially affect
    Schering-Plough’s results of operations, cash flow and
    financial position. Failure to comply with regulations, which
    include pharmacovigilance reporting requirements and standards
    relating to clinical, laboratory and manufacturing practices,
    can result in suspension or termination of clinical studies,
    delays or failure in obtaining the approval of drugs, seizure or
    recalls of drugs, suspension or revocation of the authority
    necessary for the production and sale of drugs, withdrawal of
    approval, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions.


 


    Schering-Plough also is subject to other regulations, including
    environmental, health and safety, and labor regulations.


 



    Developments
    following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of
    Schering-Plough’s products.


 


    Even after a product reaches market, certain developments
    following regulatory approval, including results in
    post-marketing Phase IV trials, may decrease demand for
    Schering-Plough’s products, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the re-review of products that are already marketed;




 



     
        • 

    
    new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories;




 



     
        • 

    
    the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are
    already marketed;




 



     
        • 

    
    changing government standards or public expectations regarding
    safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion.





 


    In the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing
    surveillance of certain marketed drugs of competitors within the
    industry have raised safety concerns that have led to recalls,
    withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. Clinical
    trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs
    also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients
    relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in
    general that have negatively affected the sales of such
    products. In addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of
    clinical trials have led to increased volatility in market
    reaction. Further, these matters often attract litigation and,
    even where the basis for the litigation is groundless,
    considerable resources may be needed to respond.


 


    In addition, following the wake of product withdrawals of other
    companies and other significant safety issues, health
    authorities such as the FDA, the EMEA and the PMDA have
    increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk
    balance of drugs. Some health authorities appear to have become
    more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new
    products or indications and are re-reviewing select products
    that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties
    in the regulatory processes. There is also greater regulatory
    scrutiny, especially in the U.S., on advertising and promotion
    and in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising.


 


    If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is
    an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects
    of any of Schering-Plough’s products, it could
    significantly reduce demand for the product or require
    Schering-Plough to take actions that could negatively affect
    sales, including removing the product from the market,
    restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes.
    Further, in the current



    
    19



Table of Contents




    environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate,
    Schering-Plough is at risk for product liability claims for its
    products.


 



    New
    products and technological advances developed by
    Schering-Plough’s competitors may negatively affect
    sales.


 


    Schering-Plough operates in a highly competitive industry.
    Schering-Plough competes with a large number of multinational
    pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and generic
    pharmaceutical companies. Many of Schering-Plough’s
    competitors have been conducting research and development in
    areas served both by Schering-Plough’s current products and
    by those products Schering-Plough is in the process of
    developing. Competitive developments that may impact
    Schering-Plough include technological advances by, patents
    granted to, and new products developed by competitors or new and
    existing generic, prescription
    and/or OTC
    products that compete with products of Schering-Plough or the
    Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Joint Venture. In addition, it
    is possible that doctors, patients and providers may favor those
    products offered by competitors due to safety, efficacy, pricing
    or reimbursement characteristics, and as a result
    Schering-Plough will be unable to maintain its sales for such
    products.


 



    Competition
    from third parties may make it difficult for Schering-Plough to
    acquire or license new products or product candidates
    (regardless of stage of development) or to enter into such
    transactions on terms that permit Schering-Plough to generate a
    positive financial impact.


 


    Schering-Plough depends on acquisition and in-licensing
    arrangements as a source for new products. Opportunities for
    obtaining or licensing new products are limited, however, and
    securing rights to them typically requires substantial amounts
    of funding or substantial resource commitments. Schering-Plough
    competes for these opportunities against many other companies
    and third parties that have greater financial resources and
    greater ability to make other resource commitments.
    Schering-Plough may not be able to acquire or license new
    products, which could adversely impact Schering-Plough and its
    prospects. Schering-Plough may also have difficulty acquiring or
    licensing new products on acceptable terms. To secure rights to
    new products, Schering-Plough may have to make substantial
    financial or other resource commitments that could limit its
    ability to produce a positive financial impact from such
    transactions.


 



    Schering-Plough
    relies on third-party relationships for its key products, and
    the conduct and changing circumstances of such third parties may
    adversely impact the business.


 


    Schering-Plough has several relationships with third parties on
    which Schering-Plough depends for many of its key products. Very
    often these third parties compete with Schering-Plough or have
    interests that are not aligned with the interests of
    Schering-Plough. Notwithstanding any contracts Schering-Plough
    has with these third parties, Schering-Plough may not be able to
    control or influence the conduct of these parties, or the
    circumstances that affect them, either of which could adversely
    impact Schering-Plough.


 


    The relationships are long-standing and, as the third
    party’s work and Schering-Plough’s work evolves,
    priorities and alignments also change. At times new issues
    develop that were not anticipated at the time contracts were
    negotiated. These new issues, and related uncertainties in the
    contracts, also can adversely impact Schering-Plough.


 



    Schering-Plough’s
    global operations expose Schering-Plough to additional risks,
    and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on
    results of operations.


 


    A majority of Schering-Plough’s operations are outside the
    U.S. With the acquisition of OBS in late 2007,
    Schering-Plough’s global operations in Prescription
    Pharmaceuticals and Animal Health increased. Acquisitions, such
    as the recently completed purchase of OBS, further expanded the
    size, scale and scope of Schering-Plough’s global
    operations. Risks inherent in conducting a global business
    include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and
    pricing restrictions in key markets;






    
    20



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict
    Schering-Plough’s ability to manufacture and sell its
    products in key markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    trade protection measures and import or export licensing
    requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    diminished protection of intellectual property in some
    countries; and




 



     
        • 

    
    possible nationalization and expropriation.





 


    In addition, there may be changes to Schering-Plough’s
    business and political position if there is instability,
    disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region,
    regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil
    insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made
    disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or
    disease.


 



    The
    integration of the businesses of Schering-Plough and OBS to
    create a combined company is a complex process and may be
    subject to unforeseen developments, which could have an adverse
    impact on the results of future operations.


 


    As the two companies are combined, the workforces of
    Schering-Plough and OBS will continue to face uncertainties
    until the completion of the integration phase. Cultural
    integration particularly in trans-Atlantic transactions are
    complex and can take several years. Although substantial
    progress has been made towards completing the integration phase
    of the OBS acquisition as quickly as possible, it is difficult
    to predict how long the integration phase will last.


 


    The workforces of both companies are learning to use new
    processes as work is integrated and streamlined. Further, for
    those employees of the new combined company who have not in the
    past worked for a
    U.S.-based
    global company, the applicable regulatory requirements are
    different in a number of respects. While substantial efforts are
    being made to facilitate smooth execution of integration
    including thorough training and transparent and motivational
    employee communications there may be an increased risk of slower
    execution of various work processes, repeated execution to
    achieve quality standards and reputational harm in the event of
    a compliance failure with new and complex regulatory
    requirements, even if such a failure were inadvertent. Any such
    events could have an adverse impact on the results of future
    operations.


 



    The
    acquisition of OBS expanded Schering-Plough’s animal health
    business worldwide, which increases the risk that negative
    events in the animal health industry could have a negative
    impact on future results of operations.


 


    Through the acquisition of OBS’s animal health business,
    Schering-Plough’s global Animal Health business is a more
    significant business segment. The combined company’s future
    sales of key animal health products could be adversely impacted
    by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are
    specific to the animal health business. For example, the
    outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as Bovine
    Spongiform Encephalopathy (“BSE”) or mad cow disease,
    could lead to their widespread death and precautionary
    destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for
    animals, which could adversely impact Schering-Plough’s
    results of operations. Also, the outbreak of any highly
    contagious diseases near Schering-Plough’s main production
    sites could require Schering-Plough to immediately halt
    production of vaccines at such sites or force Schering-Plough to
    incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or
    vaccines elsewhere. Other risks specific to animal health
    include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and
    pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic
    events. As the Animal Health segment of Schering-Plough’s
    business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events
    on future results of operations would also become more
    significant.



    
    21



Table of Contents





    The
    acquisition of OBS increased Schering-Plough’s biologics
    human and animal health product offerings, including animal
    health vaccines. Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties,
    which could have a negative impact on future results of
    operations.


 


    The successful development, testing, manufacturing and
    commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal
    health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process.
    There are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    There may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased
    tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains
    and other biological materials. In addition, government
    regulations in multiple jurisdictions such as the U.S. and
    European states within the EU, could result in restricted access
    to, or transport or use of, such materials. If Schering-Plough
    loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if
    tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials,
    Schering-Plough may not be able to conduct research activities
    as planned and may incur additional development costs.




 



     
        • 

    
    The development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are
    subject to regulation by the FDA, the EMEA and other regulatory
    bodies. These regulations are often more complex and extensive
    than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical
    products. For example, in the U.S., a Biologics License
    Application, including both preclinical and clinical trial data
    and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is
    required for human vaccine candidates and FDA approval for the
    release of each manufactured lot.




 



     
        • 

    
    Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is
    often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies
    to handle living micro-organisms. Each lot of an approved
    biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength,
    quality, purity and potency. Manufacturing biologics requires
    facilities specifically designed for and validated for this
    purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control
    procedures are necessary. Slight deviations anywhere in the
    manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging,
    storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result
    in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. When changes are
    made to the manufacturing process, Schering-Plough may be
    required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the
    comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the
    products before and after such changes.




 



     
        • 

    
    Biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because
    production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant
    material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. In
    particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be
    difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines.




 



     
        • 

    
    The use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to
    allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions,
    or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination.
    Any of these events could result in substantial costs.




 



     
        • 

    
    There currently is no process in the U.S. for the
    submission or approval of generic biologics based upon
    abbreviated data packages or a showing of sameness to another
    approved biologic, but there is public dialogue at the FDA and
    in Congress regarding the scientific and statutory basis upon
    which such products, known as biosimilars or follow-on
    biologics, could be approved and marketed in the
    U.S. Schering-Plough cannot be certain when Congress will
    create a statutory pathway for the approval of biosimilars, and
    Schering-Plough cannot predict what impact, if any, the approval
    of biosimilars would have on the sales of Schering-Plough
    products in the U.S. In Europe, however, the EMEA has
    issued guidelines for approving biological products through an
    abbreviated pathway, and biosimilars have been approved in
    Europe. If a biosimilar version of one of Schering-Plough’s
    products were approved in Europe, it could have a negative
    effect on sales of the product.





 



    Schering-Plough
    is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates and interest rates.


 


    Schering-Plough operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such,
    virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local
    jurisdiction. Additionally, Schering-Plough has entered and will
    enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial
    transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate
    exposure.



    
    22



Table of Contents




    Since Schering-Plough cannot, with certainty, foresee and
    mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in
    currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively
    affect Schering-Plough’s results of operations, financial
    position and cash flows.


 


    In order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market
    fluctuations, Schering-Plough will from time to time enter into
    hedging agreements. While hedging agreements, such as currency
    options and interest rate swaps, limit some of the exposure to
    exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to
    mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful.


 



    The
    current stock market and credit market conditions are extremely
    volatile and unpredictable. It is difficult to predict whether
    these conditions will continue or worsen, and, if so, whether
    the conditions would impact Schering-Plough and whether such
    impact could be material.


 


    Schering-Plough has exposure to many different industries and
    counterparties, including commercial banks, investment banks,
    suppliers and customers (which include wholesalers, managed care
    organizations and governments) that may be unstable or may
    become unstable in the current economic environment. Any such
    instability may impact these parties’ ability to fulfill
    contractual obligations to Schering-Plough or they might limit
    or place burdensome conditions upon future transactions with
    Schering-Plough. Customers may also reduce spending during times
    of economic uncertainty. Also, it is possible that suppliers may
    be negatively impacted. In such events, there could be a
    resulting material and adverse impact on operations and results
    of operations.


 


    Although Schering-Plough currently has no plan to access the
    equity or debt markets to meet capital or liquidity needs,
    constriction and volatility in these markets may restrict future
    flexibility to do so if unforeseen capital or liquidity needs
    were to arise.


 


    Further, the current conditions have resulted in severe downward
    pressure on the stock and credit markets, which could further
    reduce the return available on invested corporate cash, reduce
    the return on investments held by the pension plans and thereby
    potentially increase funding obligations, all of which if severe
    and sustained could have material and adverse impacts on
    Schering-Plough’s results of operations, financial position
    and cash flows.


 



    Insurance
    coverage for product liability may be limited, cost prohibitive
    or unavailable.


 


    Schering-Plough maintains insurance coverage with such
    deductibles and self-insurance to reflect market conditions
    (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is
    written, and the relationship of insurance coverage to
    self-insurance varies accordingly. For certain products,
    third-party insurance is increasingly cost prohibitive,
    available on more limited terms than past coverage, or
    unavailable. Schering-Plough self-insures substantially all of
    its risk as it relates to products’ liability, as the
    availability of commercial insurance has become more
    restrictive. Schering-Plough continually assesses the best way
    to provide for its insurance needs.


 



    Schering-Plough
    is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in
    additional liabilities that may affect results of
    operations.


 


    Schering-Plough is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in
    the jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is
    required for determining Schering-Plough’s tax liabilities,
    and Schering-Plough’s tax returns are periodically examined
    by various tax authorities. Schering-Plough believes that its
    accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years
    based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and
    judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however,
    due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate
    resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or
    less than amounts accrued.


 


    In addition, Schering-Plough may be impacted by changes in tax
    laws including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to
    the remittance of foreign earnings, new tax laws and revised tax
    law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions.



    
    23



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1B