Item 1A. “Risk
    Factors” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data,” Note 12. “Contingencies and
    Environmental Liabilities” below.


 



    Competition


 


    The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the
    pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly
    regulated. The Company’s competitors include other
    worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller
    research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and
    generic drug and consumer health care manufacturers. The
    Company’s operations may be affected by technological
    advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted
    to competitors, competitive combination products, new products
    of competitors, the generic availability of competitors’
    branded products, new information from clinical trials of
    marketed products or post-marketing surveillance and generic
    competition as the Company’s products mature. In addition,
    patent positions are increasingly being challenged by
    competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse
    result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of
    products or negatively affect sales of existing products and
    could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with
    respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have
    intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect
    on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot
    be predicted.


 


    Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for
    technological innovations and the ability to market these
    innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on
    research and development, the Company is well positioned to
    compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional
    resources to meet market challenges include quality control,
    flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient
    distribution system and a strong technical information service.
    The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products
    through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses,
    and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further
    address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction
    of new products and processes by competitors may result in price
    reductions and product displacements, even for products
    protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds
    available to treat a particular disease typically increases over
    time and can result in slowed sales growth for the
    Company’s products in that therapeutic category.




    
    10



 





    Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to
    exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In 2010,
    this pressure was particularly intense in several European
    countries which implemented austerity measures aimed at reducing
    costs in areas such as health care. In the United States,
    federal and state governments for many years also have pursued
    methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they
    pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay
    specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to
    provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain
    Public Health Service entities and “disproportionate
    share” hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria).
    Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the
    U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
    (“CDC”) funds and purchases recommended pediatric
    vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of
    Medicaid-eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain
    underinsured children. Merck was awarded a CDC contract in 2010
    for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the Vaccines for
    Children program.


 


    Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health
    care reform legislation in 2010. Various insurance market
    reforms began last year and will continue through full
    implementation in 2014. The new law is expected to expand access
    to health care to more than 32 million Americans by the end
    of the decade that did not previously have regular access to
    health care. With respect to the effect of the law on the
    pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid
    rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid
    managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities
    eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law
    also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% discount
    on Medicare Part D utilization by beneficiaries when they
    are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the
    so-called “donut hole”). Also, beginning in 2011,
    pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to pay an annual
    health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee, which
    will be $2.5 billion in 2011, will be assessed on each
    company in proportion to its share of sales to certain
    government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.


 


    Although not included in the health care reform law, Congress
    has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to
    increase the government’s role in pharmaceutical pricing in
    the Medicare program. These proposals may include removing the
    current legal prohibition against the Secretary of the Health
    and Human Services intervening in price negotiations between
    Medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical
    companies. They may also include mandating the payment of
    rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in
    Medicare drug benefit plans. In addition, Congress may again
    consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the
    importation of medicines from other countries.


 


    The full impact of U.S. health care reform, as well as
    continuing budget pressures on governments around the world,
    cannot be predicted at this time.


 


    In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company makes a
    continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines provide
    value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The
    Company works in markets with historically low rates of
    government spending on health care to encourage those
    governments to increase their investments and thereby improve
    their citizens’ access to appropriate health care,
    including medicines.


 


    In the animal health business, there is intense competition
    which is affected by several factors including regulatory and
    legislative issues, scientific and technological advances,
    product innovation, the quality and price of the Company’s
    products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent
    introduction of generic products by competitors.


 


    The Company’s consumer care operations face competition
    from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers
    who carry their own private label brands. The Company’s
    competitive position is affected by several factors, including
    regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological
    advances, the quality and price of the Company’s products,
    promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label
    brands.


 


    Operating conditions have become more challenging under the
    global pressures of competition, industry regulation, and cost
    containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of
    these and other factors on the Company’s business, the
    Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and
    improve the organization and its business practices to better
    meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to
    respond to the evolving health care environment and market
    forces.




    
    11



 






    Government
    Regulation


 


    The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by
    regional, country, state and local agencies around the world.
    Governmental regulation and legislation tends to focus on
    standards and processes for determining drug safety and
    effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement,
    especially related to the pricing of products.


 


    Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which
    administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and
    resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to
    market in the United States. U.S. health care reform
    legislation which passed in 2010 with a full implementation date
    of 2014, significantly expands access to health care, but also
    contains a number of provisions imposing new obligations on the
    pharmaceutical industry, including, for example, an increase in
    the mandated rebate under the Medicaid program and a new
    discount requirement in the Medicare Part D program.


 


    The EU has adopted Directives and other legislation concerning
    the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale
    distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products
    for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the
    EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional
    regulations by the EU member states. The Company’s policies
    and procedures are already consistent with the substance of
    these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will
    not have any material effect on the Company’s business.


 


    In January 2008, the EC launched a sector inquiry in the
    pharmaceutical industry under the rules of EU competition law. A
    sector inquiry allows the EC to gather information about the
    general operation of market competition and is not an
    investigation into suspected anti-competitive behavior of
    specific firms. As part of this inquiry, Old Merck’s
    offices in Germany were inspected by the authorities beginning
    in January 2008. The preliminary report of the EC was issued in
    November 2008, and following the public consultation period, the
    final report was issued in July 2009. The final report confirmed
    that there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines
    reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of
    generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have
    contributed to these phenomena. Among other things, the final
    report expressed concern over settlements of patent disputes
    between originator and generic companies and suggested that the
    EC should monitor any anti-competitive effects. While the EC has
    issued further inquiries with respect to the subject of the
    investigation, including to the Company, the EC has not alleged
    that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any
    unlawful practices.


 


    The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct
    its operations, including launching new drugs into the market,
    in this regulatory environment.


 



    Access to
    Medicines


 


    As a global health care company, Merck’s primary role is to
    discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The
    Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in
    helping to improve access to its products around the world. The
    Company’s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging. For
    example, the Company has been recognized for pricing many of its
    products through a differential pricing framework, taking into
    consideration such factors as a country’s level of economic
    development and public health need.


 


    Building on the Company’s own efforts, Merck has undertaken
    collaborations with many stakeholders to improve access to
    medicines and enhance the quality of life for people around the
    world.


 


    For example, in 2010, through a partnership of Merck, the
    Government of Bhutan, and the Australian Cervical Cancer
    Foundation, Bhutan became the first low-income country in the
    world to successfully implement a national HPV vaccination
    program. Under this program, Merck is providing Gardasil
    free of charge for the first year of the program and will
    provide Gardasil at the Company’s access price for
    five more years.


 


    Also in 2010, Merck worked with its partner, the Wellcome Trust,
    to further develop the Hillemann Laboratories which was
    established in September 2009. This initiative will focus on
    developing affordable vaccines to prevent diseases that commonly
    affect low-income countries.




    
    12



 





    Merck has also in the past provided funds to The Merck Company
    Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered
    with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global
    health. One of these partnerships is The African Comprehensive
    HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the
    government of Botswana and the Bill & Melinda Gates
    Foundation, that was renewed in 2010, and supports
    Botswana’s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and
    sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and
    support.


 



    Privacy
    and Data Protection


 


    The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data
    protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy
    and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly
    the Company’s business, including recently enacted laws and
    regulations in the United States and internationally requiring
    notification to individuals and government authorities of
    security breaches involving certain categories of personal
    information.


 



    Distribution


 


    The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products
    primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals,
    government agencies and managed health care providers such as
    health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and
    other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to
    physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government
    entities. The Company’s professional representatives
    communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the
    Company’s pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health
    care professionals in private practice, group practices,
    hospitals and managed care organizations. The Company sells its
    animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal
    producers. The Company’s
    over-the-counter,
    foot care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and
    retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets in the
    United States and Canada.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from
    multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally
    available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the
    Company’s business.


 



    Patents,
    Trademarks and Licenses


 


    Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of
    material importance in the Company’s marketing of human
    health products in the United States and in most major foreign
    markets. Patents may cover products per se,
    pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates
    useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products.
    Protection for individual products extends for varying periods
    in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various
    countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
    country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its
    scope of coverage.


 


    The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (the
    “FDA Modernization Act”) includes a Pediatric
    Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months
    of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of
    new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric
    studies are completed by the applicant. These exclusivity
    provisions were re-authorized by the Prescription Drug User Fee
    Act passed in September 2007. Current U.S. patent law
    provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration
    for periods when the patented product was under regulatory
    review before the FDA.




    
    13



 





    Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the
    Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the
    following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term
    Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed
    products:


 




     	
     	
     	





    Product


 


Year of Expiration (in
U.S.)(1)




 






    Crixivan



 


    2012 (compound)/2018 (formulation)





    Maxalt(2)




 


    2012





    Singulair



 


    2012





    Cancidas



 


    2013 (compound)/2015 (composition)





    Propecia(3)




 


    2013 (formulation/use)





    Asmanex



 


    2014 (use)/2018 (formulation)





    Avelox(4)




 


    2014





    Dulera



 


    2014 (use)/2020 (combination)





    Integrilin



 


    2014 (compound)/2015 (use/formulation)





    Nasonex



 


    2014 (use/formulation)/2018(formulation)





    Temodar(5)




 


    2014





    Emend



 


    2015





    Follistim AQ



 


    2015





    PegIntron



 


    2015 (conjugates)/2020 (Mature IFN-alpha)





    Zolinza



 


    2015 (with pending Patent Term Restoration)





    Invanz



 


    2016 (compound)/2017 (composition)





    Zostavax



 


    2016 (use)





    Zetia/Vytorin(6)




 


    2017





    NuvaRing



 


    2018 (delivery system)





    Noxafil



 


    2019





    RotaTeq



 


    2019





    Clarinex(7)




 


    2020 (formulation)





    Comvax



 


    2020 (method of making/vectors)





    Intron A



 


    2020





    Recombivax



 


    2020 (method of making/vectors)





    Saphris/Sycrest



 


    2020 (use/formulation) (subject to pending Patent Term
    Restoration application)





    Januvia/Janumet



 


    2022 (compound)/2026 (salt)





    Isentress



 


    2023





    Gardasil



 


    2026 (method of making/use/product by process)








 




    
    



        (1) 


        Compound patent unless otherwise noted.








        (2) 


        The Company has determined that it will not enforce an
    additional patent that was set to expire in 2014.








        (3) 


        By agreement, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc. may
    launch a generic in the U.S. on January 1, 2013.








        (4) 


        By settlement, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. may launch a
    generic in the U.S. as early as February 2014. Six months
    Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date to August
    2014.








        (5) 


        By agreement, Barr Laboratories, Inc. may launch a generic in
    the U.S. on August 11, 2013.








        (6) 


        By agreement, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, Inc. may launch a
    generic in the U.S. on December 12, 2016.








        (7) 


        By virtue of litigation settlement, generic manufacturers
    have been given the right to enter the U.S. market as of
    2012.





 


    While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a
    loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical
    product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from:
    (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates
    related to the most economical method of manufacture of the
    active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to
    the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel
    compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United
    States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may
    be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent
    expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many
    other factors such as the nature of the market and the position
    of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities
    and economics of the process for manufacture of the active
    ingredient of the product and the





    
    14



 





    requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug
    and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other
    countries.


 


    The patents that provided U.S. market exclusivity for
    Cozaar and Hyzaar expired in April 2010. In
    addition, Cozaar and Hyzaar lost patent protection
    in a number of major European markets in March 2010.
    Accordingly, the Company is experiencing a significant decline
    in Cozaar/Hyzaar worldwide sales and the Company expects
    such decline to continue. In addition, the patent that provides
    U.S. market exclusivity for Singulair, the
    Company’s largest selling product, expires in August 2012.
    The Company expects that within the two years following patent
    expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of
    Singulair, with most of those declines coming in the
    first full year following patent expiration. Also, the patent
    for Singulair will expire in a number of major European
    markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of
    Singulair in those markets will decline significantly
    thereafter (although the six month Pediatric Market Exclusivity
    may extend this date in some markets to February 2013). The
    compound patent that provides market exclusivity for Maxalt
    in the United States expires in June 2012 (although the six
    month Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date to
    December 2012). In addition, the patent for Maxalt will
    expire in a number of major European markets in 2013. The
    Company anticipates that sales in the United States and in these
    European markets will decline significantly after these patent
    expiries.


 


    Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States
    and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws
    increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in
    patent life have been partially offset by a general increase in
    the number of incentives for and use of generic products.
    Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are
    sought in the United States and other countries through reform
    of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of
    international treaties.


 


    For further information with respect to the Company’s
    patents, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and
    Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,
    Note 12. “Contingencies and Environmental
    Liabilities” below.


 


    Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold
    under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of
    material importance. Trademark protection continues in some
    countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as
    registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed
    indefinitely.


 


    Royalty income in 2010 on patent and know-how licenses and other
    rights amounted to $347 million. Merck also incurred
    royalty expenses amounting to $1.38 billion in 2010 under
    patent and know-how licenses it holds.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    The Company’s business is characterized by the introduction
    of new products or new uses for existing products through a
    strong research and development program. Approximately
    15,500 people are employed in the Company’s research
    activities. Research and development expenses were
    $11.0 billion in 2010, $5.8 billion in 2009 and
    $4.8 billion in 2008 (which included restructuring costs in
    all years, as well as $2.4 billion of IPR&D impairment
    charges in 2010). The Company maintains its ongoing commitment
    to research over a broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical
    development in support of new products.


 


    The Company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and
    fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well
    as research programs directed toward product development. The
    Company’s research and development model is designed to
    increase productivity and improve the probability of success by
    prioritizing the Company’s research and development
    resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific
    opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its
    research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to
    discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately
    on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major
    impact on human health, on developing
    best-in-class
    approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines
    and vaccines through new indications and new formulations.
    Another important component of the Company’s science-based
    diversification is based on expanding the Company’s
    portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and
    vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins,
    antibodies) and RNAi. Further, Merck has moved to diversify its
    portfolio through its Merck BioVentures division which has the
    potential to harness the market opportunity presented by
    biological medicine patent expiries





    
    15



 





    by delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to
    enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company will continue
    to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities.


 


    The integration efforts for research and development continue to
    focus on integrating the research operations of the legacy
    companies, including providing an effective transition for
    employees, realizing projected merger synergies in the form of
    cost savings and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining
    momentum in the Company’s late-stage pipeline. Overall, the
    Company’s global operating model will align franchise and
    function as well as align resources with disease area priorities
    and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the
    Company to act upon those programs with the highest probability
    of success. Additionally, across all disease area priorities,
    the Company’s strategy is designed to expand access to
    worldwide external science and incorporate external research as
    a key component of the Company’s early discovery pipeline
    in order to translate basic research productivity into
    late-stage clinical success.


 


    The Company’s clinical pipeline includes candidates in
    multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer,
    cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases,
    inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, migraine,
    neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis,
    psychiatric diseases, respiratory diseases and women’s
    health. The Company supplements its internal research with an
    aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on
    the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to
    late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies.


 


    In the development of human health products, industry practice
    and government regulations in the United States and most foreign
    countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and
    safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and
    controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may
    be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical
    and clinical experience are included in the NDA for a drug or
    the Biologics License Application (“BLA”) for a
    vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the required
    approval.


 


    Once the Company’s scientists discover a new small molecule
    compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to
    treat a medical condition, the Company commences preclinical
    testing with that compound. Preclinical testing includes
    laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on
    chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. Pending
    acceptable preclinical data, the Company will initiate clinical
    testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements.
    The clinical testing begins with Phase I studies, which are
    designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and
    preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans.
    If favorable, additional, larger Phase II studies are
    initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the
    affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound,
    as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the
    compound’s usefulness. If data from the Phase II
    trials are satisfactory, the Company commences large-scale
    Phase III trials to confirm the compound’s efficacy
    and safety. Upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory,
    the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate
    regulatory agencies around the world to have the product
    candidate approved for marketing. There can be no assurance that
    a compound that is the result of any particular program will
    obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed.


 


    Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for
    drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine’s safety
    and ability to elicit a protective immune response
    (immunogenicity). Pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are
    typically done in three phases. Initial Phase I clinical studies
    are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety,
    tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate.
    Phase II studies are dose-ranging studies. Finally,
    Phase III trials provide the necessary data on
    effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits
    regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies.
    Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility
    undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of
    the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail.


 


    In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a
    complete NDA is submitted and received by the FDA. Pursuant to
    the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA review period
    targets for NDAs or supplemental NDAs is either six months, for
    priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. Within
    60 days after receipt of an NDA, the FDA determines if the
    application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive
    review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the
    application will be granted a priority review or standard
    review. Once the review timelines are defined, the FDA will
    generally act upon the application within those timelines,
    unless a major





    
    16



 





    amendment has been submitted (either at the Company’s own
    initiative or the FDA’s request) to the pending
    application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the review
    period to allow for review of the new information, but by no
    more than 180 days. Extensions to the review period are
    communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application
    by issuing an approval letter or a complete response letter.


 



    Research
    and Development Update





    The Company currently has a number of candidates under
    regulatory review in the United States and internationally.


 


    Boceprevir is an investigational oral hepatitis C virus
    protease inhibitor currently under development. Full data
    results for two pivotal late-stage studies for boceprevir were
    presented in November 2010 at the annual meeting of the American
    Association for the Study of Liver Disease which showed that
    boceprevir demonstrated significantly higher sustained virologic
    response rates in adult patients who previously failed treatment
    and in adult patients who were new to treatment for chronic
    hepatitis C virus genotype 1 compared to control, the
    primary objective of the studies. Based on these data,
    regulatory applications for boceprevir were submitted in 2010
    and have been accepted for expedited review in both the United
    States and the EU.


 


    MK-0431A XR, the Company’s investigational extended-release
    formulation of Janumet, was accepted for standard review
    by the FDA in 2010. The Company is also moving forward as
    planned with regulatory filings in countries outside the United
    States. The extended-release formulation of Janumet is an
    investigational treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines
    sitagliptin, which is the active component of Januvia,
    with metformin extended release, a commonly-prescribed
    medication for type 2 diabetes, into a single tablet. This
    formulation is designed to provide a new treatment option for
    health care providers and patients who need two or more oral
    agents to help control their blood sugar with the convenience of
    once daily dosing.


 


    SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a
    selective progestin with 17-beta estradiol, an estrogen that is
    identical to the one naturally present in a women’s body.
    The drug is currently under review in the EU. It is also in
    Phase III development for the U.S. market.


 


    MK-3009, Cubicin daptomycin for injection, is currently under
    review in Japan. As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Cubist”) entered into a
    license agreement with Old Merck for the development and
    commercialization of Cubicin, for the treatment of staph
    infection, in Japan where the Company has the commercial rights
    to the drug candidate. Merck will develop and commercialize
    Cubicin through its wholly-owned subsidiary in Japan. Cubist
    commercializes Cubicin in the United States.


 


    MK-0431D is a combination of Januvia and Zocor for
    the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia which was accepted
    for standard review by the FDA in 2011.


 


    In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the
    Company has 19 drug candidates in Phase III development.


 


    Vorapaxar is a thrombin receptor antagonist or antiplatelet
    protease activated receptor-1 inhibitor being studied for the
    prevention and treatment of thrombosis. Merck was studying
    vorapaxar in two major clinical endpoint trials to evaluate the
    investigational medicine for the prevention of cardiac events:
    TRACER, a study in patients with acute coronary syndrome which
    has ended, and TRA-2P (also known as TIMI 50), a study in
    patients with prior heart attack, stroke and peripheral artery
    disease which is continuing in large part. Both studies were
    designed as event-driven trials in which patients were planned
    to be followed for a minimum of one year, and both had completed
    enrollment. In January 2011, Merck announced that the combined
    Data and Safety Monitoring Board (“DSMB”) for the two
    studies had reviewed the available safety and efficacy data, and
    made recommendations for study changes to the chairpersons of
    the steering committees for the two studies. The study
    chairpersons agreed to implement these changes, and as a result:
    in the TRACER study, patients were to discontinue study drug and
    investigators were to begin to close out the study in a timely
    and orderly fashion. In the TRA-2P study, study drug was
    continued in patients who had experienced a previous heart
    attack or peripheral arterial disease (approximately 75% of the
    patients enrolled in the study), and was immediately
    discontinued in patients who experienced a stroke prior to entry
    into the study or during the course of the study. Merck
    subsequently announced that the chairman of the TRA-2P study
    reported to investigators that the DSMB had communicated that
    based on all





    
    17



 





    of the data (safety and efficacy) available to them from both
    trials, they recommended that subjects with a history of stroke
    not receive vorapaxar. The DSMB had observed an increase in
    intracranial hemorrhage in patients with a history of stroke
    that is not outweighed by their considerations of potential
    benefit.


 


    Merck plans to update its projections for regulatory filings for
    vorapaxar once the Company has received the efficacy and safety
    data from TRACER and can determine an updated completion date
    for TRA-2P. TRACER has accumulated the pre-defined number of
    primary and major secondary endpoints, although not all patients
    will continue to receive study drug through the pre-specified
    one-year follow up. Merck continues to expect that the efficacy
    and safety data from TRACER will become available later in 2011
    and will be submitted for presentation at appropriate medical
    meetings.


 


    As a result of these developments, the Company concluded there
    was a 2010 impairment triggering event related to the vorapaxar
    intangible asset. Although there is a great deal of information
    related to these developments that remains unknown to the
    Company, utilizing market participant assumptions and
    considering several different scenarios, the Company concluded
    that its best estimate of the current fair value of the
    intangible asset related to vorapaxar was $350 million,
    which resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of
    $1.7 billion during 2010. The Company will continue to
    monitor the remaining asset value for further impairment.


 


    MK-8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of
    rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of
    cancer. Merck is currently developing ridaforolimus in multiple
    cancer indications under an exclusive license and collaboration
    agreement with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“ARIAD”).
    In January 2011, ARIAD announced top-line data showing that
    ridaforolimus met the primary endpoint of improved
    progression-free survival compared to placebo in the
    Phase III SUCCEED trial conducted in patients with
    metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcomas who previously had a
    favorable response to chemotherapy. Complete findings from the
    SUCCEED trial will be submitted for presentation at an upcoming
    medical meeting in 2011. This trial remains active, and study
    participants continue to be followed to gather additional data
    on secondary endpoints, including overall survival and the
    safety profile of ridaforolimus. Merck currently plans to file
    an NDA with the FDA for oral ridaforolimus in 2011, subject to
    final collection and analysis of all available data from the
    trial.


 


    MK-2452, Saflutan (tafluprost), is a preservative free,
    synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin F2α for the
    reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate
    patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular
    hypertension. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical
    Co., Ltd. announced a worldwide licensing agreement for
    tafluprost. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA
    with the FDA for Saflutan in 2011.


 


    As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA
    with the FDA for MK-0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin,
    which is an investigational medication for the treatment of
    dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application in
    2009. The FDA has identified additional manufacturing and
    stability data that are needed; the Company anticipates filing
    an NDA in 2011.


 


    As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was
    delaying the filing of the U.S. application for MK-0974,
    telcagepant, the Company’s investigational calcitonin
    gene-related peptide (“CGRP”)-receptor antagonist for
    the acute treatment of migraine. The decision was based on
    findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a small
    number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for three
    months for the prevention of migraine were found to have marked
    elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing regimen in
    the prevention study was different than the dosing regimen used
    in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was
    intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat
    individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Following meetings
    with regulatory agencies at the end of 2009, Merck is conducting
    an additional safety study as part of the overall Phase III
    program for telcagepant. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA in 2011.


 


    SCH 900616, Bridion (sugammadex), is a medication
    designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle
    relaxants used as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients
    remain immobile during surgical procedures. Bridion has
    received regulatory approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand,
    Japan and a number of other markets. Prior to the Merger,
    Schering-Plough received a complete response letter from the FDA
    for Bridion. Following





    
    18



 





    further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the
    agency’s feedback in order to determine a new timetable for
    response.


 


    SCH 697243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy
    sublingual tablet (“AIT”) for grass pollen allergy for
    which the Company has North American rights. In March 2010, data
    from a Phase III study in children and adolescents
    (ages 5-17 years)
    with grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis were presented at
    the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology
    Annual Meeting. Allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, or runny nose and
    itchy, watery eyes due to allergies, is a common condition in
    children and adolescents. AIT is a dissolvable oral tablet that
    is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective
    immune response against allergies, thereby treating the
    underlying cause of the disease. Merck is investigating AIT for
    the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in
    both children and adults. The anticipated U.S. filing date
    for SCH 697243 is under assessment.


 


    SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in
    Phase III development for the North American market. The
    anticipated filing date for SCH 039641 is under assessment.


 


    SCH 418131, Zenhale, is a fixed dose combination of two
    previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma:
    mometasone furoate and formoterol fumarate dehydrate. In
    November 2010, the Company advised the European Medicines Agency
    (“EMA”) that it was withdrawing the application for
    marketing authorization for Zenhale, which has been
    approved for use in asthma patients 12 years of age and
    older in the United States as Dulera Inhalation Aerosol.
    The Company decided to withdraw the application for
    Zenhale to address questions outstanding between the
    Company and the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use
    of the EMA. The Company expects to resubmit the application in
    the future.


 


    MK-0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical
    development, combines Januvia with pioglitazone, another
    type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company expects it will file an NDA
    for MK-0431C with the FDA in 2012.


 


    MK-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational
    treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women.
    Osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and
    strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures.
    Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits
    the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central
    role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break
    down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components
    of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the
    treatment of osteoporosis. Four-year data on odanacatib were
    presented in October 2010 at the American Society for Bone and
    Mineral Research annual meeting. Clinical and preclinical
    studies continue to provide data on the potential of odanacatib
    to increase bone density, cortical thickness and bone strength
    when treating osteoporosis. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012.


 


    V503 is a nine-valent HPV vaccine in development to expand
    protection against cancer-causing HPV types. The Phase III
    clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a BLA
    with the FDA in 2012.


 


    MK-0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended-release
    niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. MK-0524A has
    demonstrated the ability to lower LDL-cholesterol
    (“LDL-C” or “bad” cholesterol), raise
    HDL-cholesterol (“HDL-C” or “good”
    cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less
    flushing than traditional extended release niacin alone. High
    LDL-C, low HDL-C and elevated triglycerides are risk factors
    associated with heart attacks and strokes. In April 2008, Old
    Merck received a non-approvable action letter from the FDA in
    response to its NDA for MK-0524A. At a meeting to discuss the
    letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy and safety data
    were required and suggested that Old Merck wait for the results
    of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular
    Events (“HPS2-THRIVE”) cardiovascular outcomes study,
    which is expected to be completed in 2012. The Company
    anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK-0524A in 2012.
    MK-0524A has been approved in more than 55 countries outside the
    United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in
    patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by
    elevated levels of LDL-C and triglycerides and low HDL-C) and in
    patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous
    familial and non-familial) and is marketed as Tredaptive
    (or as Cordaptive in certain countries).
    Tredaptive should be used in patients in combination with
    statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin
    monotherapy is inadequate. Tredaptive can be used as
    monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered
    inappropriate or not tolerated.




    
    19



 





    MK-0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to
    raising HDL-C and lowering triglycerides from extended-release
    niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of
    simvastatin in one combination product. Merck will not seek
    approval for MK-0524B in the United States until it files its
    complete response relating to MK-0524A.


 


    MK-4305 is an investigational dual orexin receptor antagonist, a
    potential new approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia,
    currently in Phase III development. In June 2010, clinical
    results from a Phase IIb study were presented at the Annual
    Meeting of the Associated Professional Sleep Societies which
    showed MK-4305 was significantly more effective than placebo in
    improving overall sleep efficiency at night one and at the end
    of week four in patients with primary insomnia. MK-4305 was
    generally well-tolerated in the study. Orexins are neuropeptides
    (chemical messengers) that are released by specialized neurons
    in the hypothalamus region of the brain and are believed to be
    an important regulator of the brain’s sleep-wake process.
    Phase III trials studying the efficacy and safety of
    MK-4305 in elderly and non-elderly insomnia patients are
    ongoing. Merck anticipates filing regulatory applications for
    MK-4305 in 2012.


 


    SCH 900962, Elonva, corifollitropin alpha injection,
    which has been approved in the EU for controlled ovarian
    stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the
    development of multiple follicles in women participating in an
    assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in
    Phase III development in the United States. The
    Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in
    2012.


 


    SCH 420814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor
    antagonist in Phase III development for treatment of
    Parkinson’s disease. The Company continues to anticipate
    filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012.


 


    V212 is an inactivated varicella-zoster virus vaccine in
    Phase III development for prevention of herpes zoster. The
    Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012.


 


    MK-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the
    cholesteryl ester transfer protein (“CETP”) that is
    being investigated in lipid management to raise HDL-C and reduce
    LDL-C. In November 2010, researchers presented results from the
    Phase III DEFINE (Determining the EFficacy and Tolerability
    of CETP INhibition with AnacEtrapib) study with anacetrapib at
    the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions. In the trial
    of 1,623 patients with coronary heart disease
    (“CHD”) or CHD risk equivalents, anacetrapib showed no
    significant differences from placebo in the primary safety
    measures studied. There were no significant differences in mean
    changes in blood pressure between the anacetrapib and placebo
    treatment groups, nor were there any significant differences in
    serum electrolytes or aldosterone levels. During the 76-week
    treatment phase, the pre-specified adjudicated cardiovascular
    endpoint (defined as cardiovascular death, myocardial
    infarction, unstable angina or stroke) occurred in 16
    anacetrapib-treated patients (2.0%) compared with 21
    placebo-treated patients (2.6%). At 24 weeks, anacetrapib
    decreased LDL-C by 40% and increased HDL-C by 138% in patients
    already treated with a statin and at guideline-recommended LDL-C
    goal. Based on these results, the Company intends to move
    forward and study anacetrapib in a large cardiovascular clinical
    outcomes trial. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the
    FDA beyond 2015.




    
    20



 





    The chart below reflects the Company’s current research
    pipeline as of February 16, 2011. Candidates shown in
    Phase III include specific products. Candidates shown in
    Phase II include the most advanced compound with a specific
    mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they
    are each currently intended for commercialization in a given
    therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given
    MK-number or
    SCH-number
    designations and vaccine candidates are given V-number
    designations. Candidates in Phase I, additional indications
    in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line
    extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown.


 

 



    Phase II





    Allergy



    SCH 900237,
    Immunotherapy(1)

    



    Cancer



    MK-0646 (dalotuzumab)
    



    SCH 727965 (dinaciclib)
    



    Clostridium difficile
    Infection



    MK-3415A
    



    Contraception, Medicated
    IUS



    SCH 900342
    



    COPD



    SCH 527123 (navarixin)
    



    Diabetes Mellitus



    MK-3102
    



    Hepatitis C



    MK-7009 (vaniprevir)
    



    Insomnia



    MK-3697
    



    MK-6096
    



    Osteoporosis



    MK-5442
    



    Pediatric Vaccine



    V419
    



    Pneumoconjugate
    Vaccine



    V114
    



    Progeria



    SCH 066336 (lonafarnib)
    



    Psoriasis



    SCH 900222
    



    Staph Infection



    V710
    



    Thrombosis



    MK-4448 (betrixaban)
    





































    Phase III









    Allergy



    SCH 697243, Grass
    pollen(1)

    



    SCH 039641,
    Ragweed(1)

    



    Asthma



    SCH 418131 (Zenhale) (EU)
    



    Atherosclerosis



    MK-0524A (extended-release niacin/
    



    laropiprant) (U.S.)
    



    MK-0524B (extended-release niacin/
    



    laropiprant/simvastatin)
    



    MK-0859 (anacetrapib)
    



    Cervical Cancer



    V503 (HPV vaccine (9 valent))
    



    Contraception



    SCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (U.S.)
    



    Diabetes



    MK-0431C (sitagliptin/pioglitazone)
    



    Fertility



    SCH 900962 (corifollitropin alfa
    



    injection) (U.S.)
    



    Glaucoma



    MK-2452 (Saflutan) (U.S.)
    



    Insomnia



    MK-4305 (suvorexant)
    



    Migraine



    MK-0974 (telcagepant)
    



    Neuromuscular Blockade
    Reversal



    SCH 900616 (Bridion) (U.S.)
    



    Osteoporosis



    MK-0822 (odanacatib)
    



    Parkinson’s
    Disease



    SCH 420814 (preladenant)
    



    Sarcoma



    MK-8669 (ridaforolimus)
    



    Thrombosis



    SCH 530348 (vorapaxar)
    



    Herpes Zoster



    V212 (inactivated VZV vaccine)
    


 








    Combination Products in
    Development









    Atherosclerosis



    MK-0653C (ezetimibe/atorvastatin)
    




 








    Under Review









    Contraception



    SCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (EU)
    



    Staph Infection



    MK-3009 (daptomycin for
    injection)(2)

    



    Diabetes



    MK-0431A XR (sitagliptin/
    extended-release metformin) (U.S.)
    



    MK-0431D (sitagliptin/simvastatin)
    



    Hepatitis C



    SCH 503034 (boceprevir)
    


 




    Footnotes:





    
    



        (1) 

         North American rights only.
    




        (2) 

        Japanese rights only.
    





 






 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately
    94,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 37,600
    employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico.
    Approximately 30% of worldwide employees of the Company are
    represented by various collective bargaining groups.


 


    In February 2010, the Company commenced actions under a global
    restructuring program (the “Merger Restructuring
    Program”) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy
    Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger
    Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure
    of the combined company. Additional actions under the program
    continued during 2010. As part of the restructuring actions
    taken thus far





    
    21



 





    under the Merger Restructuring Program, which the Company
    anticipates will be substantially completed by the end of 2012
    (with the exception of certain manufacturing facilities
    actions), the Company expects to reduce its total workforce
    measured at the time of the Merger by approximately 17% across
    the Company worldwide. In addition, the Company has eliminated
    over 2,500 positions which were vacant at the time of the
    Merger. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the
    elimination of duplicative positions in sales, administrative
    and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or
    closure of certain manufacturing and research and development
    sites and the consolidation of office facilities. Since
    inception of the program through December 31, 2010, the
    Company has eliminated 11,550 positions under this program.
    These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount
    reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant
    positions.


 


    In October 2008, Old Merck announced a global restructuring
    program (the “2008 Restructuring Program”) to reduce
    its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance
    competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the
    Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions
    — 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies —
    across the Company worldwide by the end of 2011. About 40% of
    these reductions will occur in the United States. Since
    inception of the program through December 31, 2010, the
    Company has eliminated 5,800 positions, including vacancies,
    under this program.


 


    Prior to the Merger, Schering-Plough commenced a Productivity
    Transformation Program, which was designed to reduce and avoid
    costs and increase productivity. The position eliminations
    associated with this program are largely complete.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    The Company believes that there are no compliance issues
    associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations
    that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The
    Company is also remediating environmental contamination
    resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites.
    Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were
    $16 million in 2010, $17 million in 2009 and
    $35 million in 2008, and are estimated at $81 million
    for the years 2011 through 2015. These amounts do not consider
    potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken
    an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and,
    in management’s opinion, the liabilities for all
    environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably
    estimable, have been accrued and totaled $185 million at
    December 31, 2010. Although it is not possible to predict
    with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or
    the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe
    that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred
    in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed
    $150 million in the aggregate. Management also does not
    believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s financial position, results of
    operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year.


 


    Merck believes that climate change could present risks to its
    business. Some of the potential impacts of climate change to its
    business include increased operating costs due to additional
    regulatory requirements, physical risks to the Company’s
    facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply
    chain. These potential risks are integrated into the
    Company’s business planning including investment in
    reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. The
    Company does not believe these risks are material to its
    business at this time.


 



    Geographic
    Area Information


 


    The Company’s operations outside the United States are
    conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by
    subsidiaries outside the United States were 56% of sales in
    2010, 47% of sales in 2009 and 44% of sales in 2008. The
    increase in proportion of sales outside the United States in
    2010 is primarily due to the inclusion of results of
    Schering-Plough following the close of the Merger.


 


    The Company’s worldwide business is subject to risks of
    currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other
    governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard
    these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its
    operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its
    methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to
    changing economic and political conditions.




    
    22



 





    As a result of the Merger, Merck has expanded its operations in
    countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa,
    Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing
    areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important
    opportunities for growth over time.


 


    Financial information about geographic areas of the
    Company’s business is discussed in Item 8.
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” below.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    The Company’s Internet website address is
    www.merck.com. The Company will make available,
    free of charge at the “Investors” portion of its
    website, its Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or
    15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”).


 


    The Company’s corporate governance guidelines and the
    charters of the Board of Directors’ six standing committees
    are available on the Company’s website at
    www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such
    information is available in print to any stockholder who
    requests it from the Company.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    Investors should carefully consider all of the information set
    forth in this
    Form 10-K,
    including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest
    in any of the Company’s securities. The risks below are not
    the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not currently
    known to the Company or that the Company presently deems
    immaterial may also impair its business operations. The
    Company’s business, financial condition, results of
    operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected
    by any of these risks. This
    Form 10-K
    also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
    uncertainties. The Company’s results could materially
    differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking
    statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks
    it faces described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary
    Factors that May Affect Future Results” below.


 


    Certain of the Company’s major products are going to
    lose patent protection in the near future and, when that occurs,
    the Company expects a significant decline in sales of those
    products.


 


    The Company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive
    marketing rights for its products for some period of time. As
    product patents for several of the Company’s products have
    recently expired in the United States and in other countries,
    the Company faces strong competition from lower priced generic
    drugs. Loss of patent protection for one of the Company’s
    products typically leads to a rapid loss of sales for that
    product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become
    available. In the case of products that contribute significantly
    to the Company’s sales, the loss of patent protection can
    have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business,
    cash flow, results of operations, financial position and
    prospects. The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity
    for Singulair, which is the Company’s largest
    selling product and had U.S. sales of approximately
    $3.2 billion in 2010, expires in August 2012. The Company
    expects that within the two years following patent expiration,
    it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of
    Singulair, with most of those declines coming in the
    first full year following patent expiration. Also, the patent
    for Singulair will expire in a number of major European
    markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of
    Singulair in those markets will decline significantly
    thereafter (although the six month Pediatric Market Exclusivity
    may extend this date in some markets to February 2013). In
    addition, the patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity
    for Maxalt will expire in June 2012 (although the
    six month Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date
    to December 2012). The Company expects a significant decline in
    U.S. sales thereafter. In addition, as previously
    disclosed, in 2012, AstraZeneca has the right to exercise its
    options to acquire the Company’s interest in Nexium and
    Prilosec and the Company believes that it is likely that
    AstraZeneca will exercise its right.


 


    A chart listing the U.S. patent protection for the
    Company’s major marketed products is set forth above in
    Item 1. “Business — Patents, Trademarks and
    Licenses.”




    
    23



 





    The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its
    patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business
    would be adversely affected.


 


    Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of
    material importance in the Company’s marketing of human
    health products in the United States and in most major foreign
    markets. Patents covering products that it has introduced
    normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the
    successful marketing and sale of its products. The Company seeks
    patents covering each of its products in each of the markets
    where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful
    patent protection is available.


 


    Even if the Company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its
    products, third parties or government authorities may challenge
    or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent
    applications. It is important for the Company’s business to
    defend successfully the patent rights that provide market
    exclusivity for its products. The Company is often involved in
    patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or
    infringement and similar claims against the Company. The Company
    aggressively defends its important patents both within and
    outside the United States, including by filing claims of
    infringement against other parties. See Item 8.
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,”
    Note 12. “Contingencies and Environmental
    Liabilities” below. In particular, manufacturers of generic
    pharmaceutical products from time to time file Abbreviated New
    Drug Applications (“ANDA”) with the FDA seeking to
    market generic forms of the Company’s products prior to the
    expiration of relevant patents owned by the Company. The Company
    normally responds by vigorously defending its patent, including
    by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Patent
    litigation and other challenges to the Company’s patents
    are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the Company of
    market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases,
    third party patents may prevent the Company from marketing and
    selling a product in a particular geographic area.


 


    Additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that
    compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of
    national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales
    and profits from those regions and negatively affect the
    Company’s results of operations. Further, recent court
    decisions relating to other companies’ U.S. patents,
    potential U.S. legislation relating to patent reform, as
    well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of
    intellectual property protection.


 


    If one or more important products lose patent protection in
    profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to
    decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those
    products becoming available and, in the case of certain legacy
    Schering-Plough or MSP Partnership products, such a loss could
    result in a material non-cash impairment charge. The
    Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected
    by the lost sales unless and until the Company has successfully
    launched commercially successful replacement products.


 


    The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for the
    Company’s largest selling product, Singulair,
    expires in August 2012. The Company expects that within the
    two years following patent expiration, it will lose
    substantially all U.S. sales of Singulair, with most
    of those declines coming in the first full year following patent
    expiration. Also, the patent for Singulair will expire in
    a number of major European markets in August 2012 and the
    Company expects sales of Singulair in those markets will
    decline significantly thereafter (although the six month
    Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date in some
    markets to February 2013).


 


    Key Company products generate a significant amount of the
    Company’s profits and cash flows, and any events that
    adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have
    a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    The Company’s ability to generate profits and operating
    cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of
    the Company’s key products, such as Singulair,
    Remicade, Vytorin, Zetia, Januvia, Nasonex, Isentress,
    and Temodar. As a result of the Company’s
    dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any
    of these products or the markets for any of these products could
    have a significant impact on results of operations and cash
    flows. These events could include loss of patent protection,
    increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or
    over-the-counter availability of the Company’s product or a
    competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side
    effects, increased competition from the introduction of new,
    more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from
    the market of the product for any reason. If any of these events
    had a material adverse effect on the sales of certain legacy
    Schering-Plough or MSP Partnership products, such an event could
    result in a material non-cash impairment charge.




    
    24



 





    The Company’s research and development efforts may not
    succeed in developing commercially successful products and the
    Company may not be able to acquire commercially successful
    products in other ways; in consequence, the Company may not be
    able to replace sales of successful products that have lost
    patent protection.


 


    Like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain
    competitive, the Company must continue to launch new products
    each year. Declines in sales of products, such as Cozaar,
    Hyzaar and Fosamax, after the loss of market
    exclusivity mean that the Company’s future success is
    dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new
    products which it may develop through joint ventures and
    products which it is able to obtain through license or
    acquisition. To accomplish this, the Company commits substantial
    effort, funds and other resources to research and development,
    both through its own dedicated resources and through various
    collaborations with third parties. There is a high rate of
    failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat
    diseases. As a result, there is a high risk that funds invested
    by the Company in research programs will not generate financial
    returns. This risk profile is compounded by the fact that this
    research has a long investment cycle. To bring a pharmaceutical
    compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or
    more and failure can occur at any point in the process,
    including later in the process after significant funds have been
    invested.


 


    For a description of the research and development process, see
    “Research and Development” above. Each phase of
    testing is highly regulated, and during each phase there is a
    substantial risk that the Company will encounter serious
    obstacles or will not achieve its goals, and accordingly the
    Company may abandon a product in which it has invested
    substantial amounts of time and resources. Some of the risks
    encountered in the research and development process include the
    following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield
    disappointing results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be
    successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful
    side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the FDA for its
    intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a
    new drug; or sales of a new product may be disappointing.


 


    The Company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of
    its products now under development will be approved or launched;
    whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire
    compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any
    products, once launched, will be commercially successful. The
    Company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new
    products and successful new indications or brand extensions for
    existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial
    research and development costs and to replace sales that are
    lost as profitable products, such as Cozaar, Hyzaar and
    Singular in 2012, lose patent protection or are
    displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so
    in the short term or long term would have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s business, results of operations,
    cash flow, financial position and prospects.


 


    The Company’s success is dependent on the successful
    development and marketing of new products, which are subject to
    substantial risks.


 


    Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach
    market for numerous reasons, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of
    competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or
    pre-clinical testing;




 



     
        •  

    
    failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including
    delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and
    increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain
    regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by
    regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals;




 



     
        •  

    
    lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other
    factors; and




 



     
        •  

    
    preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of
    others.





 


    In connection with the Merger, the Company assessed and
    prioritized its pipeline to identify the most promising,
    high-potential compounds for development. In the future, if
    certain legacy Schering-Plough pipeline programs are cancelled
    or if the Company believes that their commercial prospects have
    been reduced, the Company may recognize material non-cash
    impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair
    value and capitalized in connection with the Merger. These
    non-cash impairment charges, which the Company anticipates





    
    25



 





    would be excluded from the Company’s non-GAAP earnings,
    could be material to the Company’s future GAAP earnings.
    For example, as discussed below, the Company recognized a
    non-cash impairment charge of $1.7 billion in 2010 with
    respect to vorapaxar, which is a legacy Schering-Plough pipeline
    program.


 


    The Company’s products, including products in
    development, can not be marketed unless the Company obtains and
    maintains regulatory approval.


 


    The Company’s activities, including research, preclinical
    testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its
    products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous
    federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United
    States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory
    authorities, including the EU. In the United States, the FDA is
    of particular importance to the Company, as it administers
    requirements covering the testing, approval, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of
    prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA
    requirements have increased the amount of time and money
    necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in
    the United States. Regulation outside the United States also is
    primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many
    cases, cost reduction. The FDA and foreign regulatory
    authorities have substantial discretion to require additional
    testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing
    approval and to mandate product withdrawals.


 


    Even if the Company is successful in developing new products, it
    will not be able to market any of those products unless and
    until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each
    jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. Once
    obtained, the Company must maintain approval as long as it plans
    to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval
    is required. The Company’s failure to obtain approval,
    significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to
    maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from
    selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is
    obtained, if ever. The Company would not be able to realize
    revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it
    does not have approval.


 


    The Company faces intense competition from lower-cost generic
    products.


 


    In general, the Company faces increasing competition from
    lower-cost generic products. The patent rights that protect its
    products are of varying strengths and durations. In addition, in
    some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than
    in the United States or the EU. In the United States, political
    pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to
    legislation which encourages the use of generic products.
    Although it is the Company’s policy to actively protect its
    patent rights, generic challenges to the Company’s products
    can arise at any time, and it may not be able to prevent the
    emergence of generic competition for its products.


 


    Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed
    promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the Company’s
    sales of that product. Availability of generic substitutes for
    the Company’s drugs may adversely affect its results of
    operations and cash flow. In addition, proposals emerge from
    time to time in the United States and other countries for
    legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of
    generic drugs. Any such proposal that is enacted into law could
    worsen this substantial negative effect on the Company’s
    sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of
    operations, financial position and prospects.


 


    The Company faces intense competition from competitors’
    products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain
    circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges.


 


    The Company’s products face intense competition from
    competitors’ products. This competition may increase as new
    products enter the market. In such an event, the
    competitors’ products may be safer or more effective or
    more effectively marketed and sold than the Company’s
    products. Alternatively, in the case of generic competition,
    including the generic availability of competitors’ branded
    products, they may be equally safe and effective products that
    are sold at a substantially lower price than the Company’s
    products. As a result, if the Company fails to maintain its
    competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect
    on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial
    position and prospects. In addition, if legacy Schering-Plough
    products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in
    connection with the Merger, such as Saphris, or former
    MSP Partnership products, Vytorin or Zetia,
    experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact
    product cash flows, the Company may recognize material non-cash
    impairment charges with respect to the value of those products.
    These non-cash impairment charges, which the Company anticipates
    would be excluded from the Company’s non-GAAP earnings,
    could be material to the Company’s future GAAP earnings.




    
    26



 





    The current uncertainty in global economic conditions
    together with austerity measures being taken by governments in
    Europe could negatively affect the Company’s operating
    results.


 


    The current uncertainty in global economic conditions may result
    in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect
    the Company’s business by reducing the prices that drug
    wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and
    managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for
    the Company’s products or by reducing the demand for the
    Company’s products, which could in turn negatively impact
    the Company’s sales and result in a material adverse effect
    on the Company’s business, cash flow, results of
    operations, financial position and prospects.


 


    While many of the Company’s brands experienced positive
    growth trends in the EU during 2010, the environment in the EU
    and across Europe is now more challenging. Many countries have
    announced austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas
    such as health care. The implementation of pricing actions
    varies by country and many have announced measures to reduce
    prices of generic and patented drugs. While the Company is
    taking steps to mitigate the immediate impact in the EU, it is
    possible that the austerity measures could negatively affect the
    Company’s revenue performance in 2011 and beyond more than
    the Company anticipates.


 


    The Company faces pricing pressure with respect to its
    products.


 


    The Company faces increasing pricing pressure globally from
    managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies
    and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s
    sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include
    (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and
    governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws
    and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the
    Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Changes
    to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform
    in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of
    entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and
    private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing
    pressures. The increased purchasing power of entities that
    negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector
    beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures.


 


    Outside the United States, numerous major markets have pervasive
    government involvement in funding health care and, in that
    regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and
    vaccine products. Consequently, in those markets, the Company is
    subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with
    respect to its products.


 


    The Company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future.


 


    The health care industry will continue to be subject to
    increasing regulation and political action.


 


    The Company believes that the health care industry will continue
    to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and
    legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care
    system are considered by Congress and state legislatures. In
    2010, major health care reform was adopted into law in the
    United States.


 


    Important market reforms began last year and will continue
    through full implementation in 2014. The new law is expected to
    expand access to health care to more than 32 million
    Americans by the end of the decade. In 2010, Merck incurred
    additional costs as a result of the new law, including increased
    Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues. In
    2010, the minimum rebate to states participating in the Medicaid
    program increased from 15.1% to 23.1% on the Company’s
    branded prescription drugs; the Medicaid rebate was extended to
    Medicaid Managed Care Organizations; and eligibility for the
    federal 340B drug discount program was extended to rural
    referral centers, sole community hospitals, critical access
    hospitals, certain free standing cancer hospitals, and certain
    additional children’s hospitals.


 


    Beginning in 2011, the law requires drug manufacturers to pay a
    50% discount on Medicare Part D utilization incurred by
    beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage
    gap (i.e., the so-called “donut hole”). Also,
    beginning in 2011, the Company will incur an annual health care
    reform fee, which is being assessed on all branded prescription
    drug manufacturers and importers. The fee will be calculated
    based on the industry’s total sales of branded prescription
    drugs to specified government programs. The percentage of a
    manufacturer’s sales that are included is determined by a
    tiered scale based on the manufacturer’s individual
    revenues. Each





    
    27



 





    manufacturer’s portion of the total annual fee (the fee for
    2011 is $2.5 billion) will be based on the
    manufacturer’s proportion of the total includable sales in
    the prior year.


 


    The Company cannot predict the likelihood of all future changes
    in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical
    industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the
    Company’s results of operations, financial condition or
    business.


 


    The Company is experiencing difficulties and delays in the
    manufacturing of certain of its products.


 


    As previously disclosed, Old Merck has, in the past, experienced
    difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other
    products. These issues are continuing, in particular, with
    respect to the manufacture of the Company’s varicella
    zoster virus-containing vaccines, such as Varivax, ProQuad
    and Zostavax. Similarly, the Company has, in the
    past, experienced difficulties manufacturing certain of its
    animal health products and is currently experiencing difficulty
    manufacturing certain women’s health products. The Company
    is working on these issues, but there can be no assurance of
    when or if these issues will be finally resolved.


 


    In addition to the difficulties that the Company is experiencing
    currently, the Company may experience difficulties and delays
    inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure
    of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with
    Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable
    regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to
    manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product
    manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the
    construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing
    facilities, including those intended to support future demand
    for the Company’s products; and (iii) other
    manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in
    manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing
    capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of
    products produced, or physical limitations that could impact
    continuous supply. Manufacturing difficulties can result in
    product shortages, leading to lost sales.


 


    The Company faces significant litigation related to
    Vioxx.


 


    On September 30, 2004, Old Merck voluntarily withdrew
    Vioxx, its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the
    market worldwide. Although Old Merck has settled the major
    portion of the U.S. Product Liability litigation, the
    Company still faces material litigation arising from the
    voluntary withdrawal of Vioxx.


 


    In addition to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits,
    various purported class actions and individual lawsuits have
    been brought against Old Merck and several current and former
    officers and directors of Old Merck alleging that Old Merck made
    false and misleading statements regarding Vioxx in
    violation of the federal and state securities laws (all of these
    suits are referred to as the “Vioxx Securities
    Lawsuits”). The Vioxx Securities Lawsuits have been
    transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
    (the “JPML”) to the U.S. District Court for the
    District of New Jersey before District Judge Stanley R. Chesler
    for inclusion in a nationwide MDL (the “Shareholder
    MDL”), and have been consolidated for all purposes. On
    June 18, 2010, Old Merck moved to dismiss the Fifth Amended
    Class Action Complaint in the consolidated securities class
    action. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on August 9,
    2010, and Old Merck filed its reply on September 17, 2010.
    The motion is currently pending before the district court. In
    addition, several individual securities lawsuits filed by
    foreign institutional investors also are consolidated with the
    Vioxx Securities Lawsuits; by stipulation, defendants are
    not required to respond to these complaints until the resolution
    of any motions to dismiss in the consolidated securities class
    action. In addition, various putative class actions have been
    brought against Old Merck and several current and former
    employees, officers, and directors of the Company alleging
    violations of ERISA. (All of these suits are referred to as the
    “Vioxx ERISA Lawsuits” and, together with the
    Vioxx Securities Lawsuits the “Vioxx
    Shareholder Lawsuits”. The Vioxx Shareholder
    Lawsuits are discussed more fully in Item 8.
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,”
    Note 12. “Contingencies and Environmental
    Liabilities” below.) Old Merck has also been named as a
    defendant in actions in various countries outside the United
    States. (All of these suits are referred to as the
    “Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits”.) Old Merck has also
    been sued by 12 states, one county and a private citizen as
    a qui tam lawsuit with respect to the marketing of
    Vioxx.


 


    The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) has issued
    subpoenas requesting information relating to Old Merck’s
    research, marketing and selling activities with respect to
    Vioxx in a federal health care investigation under
    criminal statutes. This investigation includes subpoenas for
    witnesses to appear before a grand jury. As previously
    disclosed, in March 2009, Old Merck received a letter from the
    U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of





    
    28



 





    Massachusetts identifying it as a target of the grand jury
    investigation regarding Vioxx. In 2010, the Company
    established a $950 million reserve (the “Vioxx
    Liability Reserve”) in connection with the anticipated
    resolution of the DOJ’s investigation. The Company’s
    discussions with the government are ongoing. Until they are
    concluded, there can be no certainty about a definitive
    resolution. There are also ongoing investigations by local
    authorities in Europe. The Company is cooperating with
    authorities in all of these investigations. (All of these
    investigations, including the DOJ investigation, are referred to
    as the “Vioxx Investigations”.) The Company
    cannot predict the outcome of any of these investigations;
    however, they could result in potential civil
    and/or
    criminal remedies.


 


    The Vioxx product liability litigation is discussed more
    fully in Item 8. “Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data,” Note 12. “Contingencies and
    Environmental Liabilities” below. The Company currently
    anticipates that three U.S. Vioxx Product Liability
    Lawsuits will be tried in 2011. The Company cannot predict the
    timing of any other trials related to the Vioxx
    Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious
    defenses to the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits,
    Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits and Vioxx Foreign
    Lawsuits (collectively, the “Vioxx Lawsuits”)
    and will vigorously defend against them. The Company’s
    insurance coverage with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits
    will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses.


 


    During 2010, Merck spent approximately $140 million in the
    aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide related to
    (i) the Vioxx Lawsuits, and (ii) the Vioxx
    Investigations (collectively, the “Vioxx
    Litigation”). In 2010, Merck recorded charges of
    $106 million to add to the reserve solely for its future
    legal defense costs related to the Vioxx Litigation,
    which was $110 million at December 31, 2009 and
    $76 million at December 31, 2010 (the “Vioxx
    Legal Defense Costs Reserve”). The amount of the
    Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve is based on certain
    assumptions, described below under Item 8. “Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 12.
    “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities,” and is
    the best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs that
    the Company believes will be incurred in connection with the
    remaining aspects of the Vioxx Litigation, however,
    events such as additional trials in the Vioxx Litigation
    and other events that could arise in the course of the Vioxx
    Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs
    to be incurred by the Company. In addition, as mentioned above,
    in 2010 the Company established the Vioxx Liability
    Reserve in connection with the anticipated resolution of the
    DOJ’s investigation.


 


    The Company is not currently able to estimate any additional
    amounts that it may be required to pay in connection with the
    Vioxx Lawsuits or Vioxx Investigations. These
    proceedings are still expected to continue for years and the
    Company cannot predict the course the proceedings will take. In
    view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of
    litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the
    claimants seek unspecified damages, the Company is unable to
    predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot
    reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with
    respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the
    Settlement Program. Other than the Vioxx Liability
    Reserve, the Company has not established any reserves for any
    potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits not
    included in the Settlement Program or the Vioxx
    Investigations.


 


    A series of unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx Lawsuits or
    the Vioxx Investigations, resulting in the payment of
    substantial damages or fines or resulting in criminal penalties,
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position
    and prospects.


 


    Issues concerning Vytorin and the ENHANCE clinical
    trial have had an adverse effect on sales of Vytorin and
    Zetia in the United States and results from ongoing
    trials could have an adverse effect on such sales.


 


    The Company sells Vytorin and Zetia. As previously
    disclosed, in January 2008, the legacy companies announced the
    results of the ENHANCE clinical trial, an imaging trial in
    720 patients with heterozygous familial
    hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very
    high levels of LDL “bad” cholesterol and greatly
    increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. As
    previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin
    10/80 mg (Vytorin) significantly lowered LDL
    “bad” cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg
    alone, there was no significant difference between treatment
    with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the
    pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of
    carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound.
    The IMPROVE-IT trial is underway and is designed to provide
    cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in
    patients with acute coronary syndrome. No incremental benefit of
    ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality
    over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been
    established.





    
    29



 





    In January 2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its
    review of the final clinical study report of ENHANCE. The FDA
    stated that the results from ENHANCE did not change its position
    that elevated LDL cholesterol is a risk factor for
    cardiovascular disease and that lowering LDL cholesterol reduces
    the risk for cardiovascular disease. For a discussion concerning
    shareholder litigation arising out of the ENHANCE study, see
    Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data,” Note 12. “Contingencies and Environmental
    Liabilities” below.


 


    The IMPROVE-IT trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. In the
    IMPROVE-IT trial, a blinded interim efficacy analysis was
    conducted by the DSMB for the trial when approximately 50% of
    the endpoints were accrued. The DSMB recommended continuing the
    trial with no changes in the study protocol. Another blinded
    interim efficacy analysis is planned by the DSMB when
    approximately 75% of the primary events have been accrued. If,
    based on the results of the interim analysis, the trial were to
    be halted because of concerns related to Vytorin, that
    could have a material adverse effect on sales of Vytorin
    and Zetia.


 


    Following the announcements of the ENHANCE clinical trial
    results, sales of Vytorin and Zetia declined in
    2008, 2009 and 2010 in the United States. These issues
    concerning the ENHANCE clinical trial have had an adverse effect
    on sales of Vytorin and Zetia and could continue
    to have an adverse effect on such sales. If sales of such
    products are materially adversely affected, the Company’s
    business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position
    and prospects could also be materially adversely affected. In
    addition, unfavorable outcomes resulting from the litigation
    concerning the sale and promotion of these products could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash
    flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.


 


    An arbitration proceeding commenced by Centocor against
    Schering-Plough may result in the Company’s loss of the
    rights to market Remicade and Simponi.


 


    A subsidiary of the Company is a party to a Distribution
    Agreement with Centocor, a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Johnson & Johnson, under which the Schering-Plough
    subsidiary has rights to distribute and commercialize the
    rheumatoid arthritis treatment Remicade and
    Simponi, a next-generation treatment, in certain
    territories.


 


    Under Section 8.2(c) of the Distribution Agreement,
    “If either party is acquired by a third party or otherwise
    comes under Control (as defined in Section 1.4 [of the
    Distribution Agreement]) of a third party, it will promptly
    notify the other party not subject to such change of control.
    The party not subject to such change of control will have the
    right, however not later than thirty (30) days from such
    notification, to notify in writing the party subject to the
    change of Control of the termination of the Agreement taking
    effect immediately. As used herein ‘Change of Control’
    shall mean (i) any merger, reorganization, consolidation or
    combination in which a party to this Agreement is not the
    surviving corporation; or (ii) any ‘person’
    (within the meaning of Section 13(d) and
    Section 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934),
    excluding a party’s Affiliates, is or becomes the
    beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the
    party representing more than fifty percent (50%) of either
    (A) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the
    party or (B) the combined voting power of the party’s
    then-outstanding voting securities; or (iii) if individuals
    who as of the Effective Date [April 3, 1998] constitute the
    Board of Directors of the party (the ‘Incumbent
    Board’) cease for any reason to constitute at least a
    majority of the Board of Directors of the party; provided,
    however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to
    the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by
    the party’s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at
    least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent
    Board shall be considered as though such individual were a
    member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose,
    any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as
    a result of an actual or threatened election contest with
    respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual
    or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on
    behalf of a person other than the Board; or (iv) approval
    by the shareholders of a party of a complete liquidation or the
    complete dissolution of such party.”


 


    Section 1.4 of the Distribution Agreement defines
    “Control” to mean “the ability of any entity (the
    ‘Controlling’ entity), directly or indirectly, through
    ownership of securities, by agreement or by any other method, to
    direct the manner in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the
    outstanding voting rights of any other entity (the
    ‘Controlled’ entity), whether or not represented by
    securities, shall be cast, or the right to receive over fifty
    percent (50%) of the profits or earnings of, or to otherwise
    control the management decisions of, such other entity (also a
    ‘Controlled’ entity).”




    
    30



 





    On May 27, 2009, Centocor delivered to Schering-Plough a
    notice initiating an arbitration proceeding to resolve whether,
    as a result of the then proposed Merger, Centocor is permitted
    to terminate the Distribution Agreement and related agreements.
    As part of the arbitration process, Centocor has taken the
    position that it has the right to terminate the Distribution
    Agreement on the grounds that, in the Merger, Schering-Plough
    and the Schering-Plough subsidiary party to the Distribution
    Agreement were (i) “acquired by a third party or
    otherwise come[ing] under “Control’ (as defined in
    Section 1.4) of a third party”
    and/or
    (ii) undergoing a “Change of Control” (as defined
    in Section 8.2(c)).


 


    The Company is vigorously contesting Centocor’s attempt to
    terminate the Distribution Agreement as a result of the Merger.
    A hearing in the arbitration was completed in late December
    2010. If the arbitration panel were to conclude that Centocor is
    permitted to terminate the Distribution Agreement as a result of
    the Merger and Centocor in fact terminates the Distribution
    Agreement, the Company’s subsidiary would not be able to
    distribute Remicade or Simponi. In addition, in
    the arbitration, Centocor is claiming damages, “in an
    amount to be determined”, that result from Merck’s
    alleged non-termination of the Distribution Agreement. If
    Centocor were to prevail in the arbitration, Merck could be
    liable for the net damages, including any offsets or mitigation,
    that the arbitration panel finds Centocor incurred as a result
    of non-termination. Sales of Remicade and Simponi
    in 2010 were $2.7 billion and $97 million,
    respectively. An unfavorable outcome in the arbitration would
    have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
    position, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the
    Company would be required to record a material, non-cash
    impairment charge with respect to the termination of those
    marketing rights.


 


    Finally, due to the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the
    arbitration, the parties may choose to settle the dispute under
    mutually agreeable terms but any agreement reached with Centocor
    to resolve the dispute under the Distribution Agreement may
    result in the terms of the Distribution Agreement being modified
    in a manner that may reduce the benefits of the Distribution
    Agreement to the Company.


 


    Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or
    efficacy concerns.


 


    Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to
    marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified,
    leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as
    well as product liability, consumer fraud
    and/or other
    claims.


 


    Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the
    Company’s business.


 


    All aspects of the Company’s business, including research
    and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales,
    litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to
    extensive legislation and regulation. Changes in applicable
    federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s business.


 


    Reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing
    arrangements could adversely affect the Company’s
    business.


 


    The Company depends on third parties, including suppliers,
    alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,
    and third party service providers, for key aspects of its
    business including development, manufacture and
    commercialization of its products and support for its
    information technology systems. Failure of these third parties
    to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to
    the Company or the development of factors that materially
    disrupt the relationships between the Company and these third
    parties could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business.


 


    The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated
    information technology and infrastructure.


 


    The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated
    information technology and infrastructure. Any significant
    breakdown, intrusion, interruption or corruption of these
    systems or data breaches could have a material adverse effect on
    our business. In addition, the Company currently is proceeding
    with a multi-year implementation of an enterprise wide resource
    planning system, which was implemented in the United States in
    2010 and which includes modification to the design, operation
    and documentation of its internal controls over financial
    reporting. The Company intends to implement the resource
    planning system in major European markets and Canada in 2011.
    Any material problems in the implementation could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s business.




    
    31



 





    Developments following regulatory approval may adversely
    affect sales of the Company’s products.


 


    Even after a product reaches market, certain developments
    following regulatory approval, including results in
    post-marketing Phase IV trials, may decrease demand for the
    Company’s products, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    the re-review of products that are already marketed;




 



     
        •  

    
    new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories;




 



     
        •  

    
    the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are
    already marketed;




 



     
        •  

    
    changing government standards or public expectations regarding
    safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and




 



     
        •  

    
    greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion.





 


    In the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing
    surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the Company and of
    competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns that
    have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed
    products. Clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of
    certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some
    prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of
    pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected
    the sales of such products. In addition, increased scrutiny of
    the outcomes of clinical trials have led to increased volatility
    in market reaction. Further, these matters often attract
    litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is
    groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond.


 


    In addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other
    significant safety issues, health authorities such as the FDA,
    the EMA and the Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency have
    increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk
    balance of drugs. Some health authorities appear to have become
    more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new
    products or indications and are re-reviewing select products
    that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties
    in the regulatory processes. There is also greater regulatory
    scrutiny, especially in the United States, on advertising and
    promotion and, in particular,
    direct-to-consumer
    advertising.


 


    If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is
    an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects
    of any of the Company’s products, it could significantly
    reduce demand for the product or require the Company to take
    actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing
    the product from the market, restricting its distribution or
    applying for labeling changes. Further, in the current
    environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the
    Company is at risk for product liability claims for its products.


 


    Negative events in the animal health industry could have a
    negative impact on future results of operations.


 


    Future sales of key animal health products could be adversely
    impacted by a number of risk factors including certain risks
    that are specific to the animal health business. For example,
    the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as Bovine
    Spongiform Encephalopathy (“BSE”) or mad cow disease,
    could lead to their widespread death and precautionary
    destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for
    animals, which could adversely impact the Company’s results
    of operations. Also, the outbreak of any highly contagious
    diseases near the Company’s main production sites could
    require the Company to immediately halt production of vaccines
    at such sites or force the Company to incur substantial expenses
    in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. Other risks
    specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics,
    government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global
    agribusiness economic events. As the Animal Health segment of
    the Company’s business becomes more significant, the impact
    of any such events on future results of operations would also
    become more significant.


 


    The Company is working with sanofi-aventis to create an
    animal health joint venture.


 


    As previously disclosed, the Company has agreed to create an
    animal health joint venture with sanofi-aventis. Under the
    agreement, both companies will contribute their respective
    animal health businesses to the new





    
    32



 





    equally-owned joint venture. The transaction is expected to
    close in the third quarter of 2011. Once the animal health joint
    venture is established, there will be a period of integration
    during which the animal health business could suffer. It is
    possible that the integration process could result in the loss
    of key employees, result in the disruption of each
    company’s ongoing animal health business or identify
    inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies
    that adversely affect the joint venture’s ability to
    maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors
    or other parties.


 


    Disruption from the integration process could have a material
    adverse effect on the joint venture’s business which is
    expected to be an important contributor to the Company’s
    business and results of operations. The formation of the animal
    health joint venture is expected to be dilutive to the
    Company’s earnings for the first 12 months after the
    transaction closes.


 


    Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could
    have a negative impact on future results of operations.


 


    The successful development, testing, manufacturing and
    commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal
    health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process.
    There are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    There may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased
    tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains
    and other biological materials. In addition, government
    regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the United States
    and European states within the EU, could result in restricted
    access to, or transport or use of, such materials. If the
    Company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or
    if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such
    materials, the Company may not be able to conduct research
    activities as planned and may incur additional development costs.




 



     
        •  

    
    The development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are
    subject to regulation by the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory
    bodies. These regulations are often more complex and extensive
    than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical
    products. For example, in the United States, a BLA, including
    both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data
    regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human
    vaccine candidates and FDA approval is required for the release
    of each manufactured lot.




 



     
        •  

    
    Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is
    often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies
    to handle living micro-organisms. Each lot of an approved
    biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength,
    quality, purity and potency. Manufacturing biologics requires
    facilities specifically designed for and validated for this
    purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control
    procedures are necessary. Slight deviations anywhere in the
    manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging,
    storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result
    in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. When changes are
    made to the manufacturing process, the Company may be required
    to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable
    identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products
    before and after such changes.




 



     
        •  

    
    Biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because
    production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant
    material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. In
    particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be
    difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines.




 



     
        •  

    
    The use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to
    allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions,
    or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination.
    Any of these events could result in substantial costs.





 


    The Company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in
    currency exchange rates and interest rates.


 


    The Company operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such,
    virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local
    jurisdiction. Additionally, the Company has entered and will
    enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial
    transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate
    exposure.




    
    33



 





    Since the Company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate
    against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the
    Company’s results of operations, financial position and
    cash flows.


 


    In order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market
    fluctuations, the Company will from time to time enter into
    hedging agreements. While hedging agreements, such as currency
    options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure
    to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts
    to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful.


 


    The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws,
    which may result in additional liabilities that may affect
    results of operations.


 


    The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the
    jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is
    required for determining the Company’s tax liabilities, and
    the Company’s tax returns are periodically examined by
    various tax authorities. The Company believes that its accrual
    for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on
    past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about
    potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the
    complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any
    tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts
    accrued.


 


    In February 2010, President Obama’s administration proposed
    significant changes to the U.S. international tax laws,
    including changes that would limit U.S. tax deductions for
    expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and
    modify the U.S. foreign tax credit rules. We cannot
    determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or
    what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to
    their being enacted into law. If these or other changes to the
    U.S. international tax laws are enacted, they could have a
    significant impact on the financial results of the Company.


 


    In addition, the Company may be impacted by changes in tax laws,
    including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the
    remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations
    impacting the U.S. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new
    tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and
    foreign jurisdictions.


 


    The Company may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings,
    revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from the
    Merger, which could adversely affect the value of the
    Company’s common stock.


 


    The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on the
    Company’s ability to successfully combine the businesses of
    Old Merck and Schering-Plough and realize the anticipated
    benefits and cost savings from the combination of the two
    companies. If the combined company is not able to achieve these
    objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the
    value of the Company’s common stock may be adversely
    affected.


 


    It is possible that the integration process could result in the
    loss of key employees, result in the disruption of each legacy
    company’s ongoing businesses or identify inconsistencies in
    standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely
    affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers,
    suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, clinical trial
    investigators or managers or to achieve the anticipated benefits
    of the Merger.


 


    Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the
    operations of the two legacy companies in order to realize the
    anticipated benefits of the Merger include, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    integrating the research and development, manufacturing,
    distribution, marketing and promotion activities and information
    technology systems of Old Merck and Schering-Plough;




 



     
        •  

    
    conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and
    other policies, business cultures and compensation structures
    between the companies;




 



     
        •  

    
    identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming
    operations and assets; and




 



     
        •  

    
    managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating
    the operations of the combined company.





 


    Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert
    management attention and resources. An inability to realize the
    full extent of the anticipated benefits of the Merger, as well
    as any delays encountered in the





    
    34



 





    integration process, could have an adverse effect on the
    Company’s business and results of operations, which may
    affect the value of the shares of Company common stock.


 


    In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and
    unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the
    integration plan may not be realized. Actual cost and sales
    synergies may be lower than the Company expects and may take
    longer to achieve than anticipated. If the Company is not able
    to adequately address these challenges, it may be unable to
    successfully integrate the operations of the two legacy
    companies, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the
    integration of the two legacy companies.


 


    Delays encountered in the integration process could have a
    material adverse effect on the revenues, expenses, operating
    results and financial condition of the Company. Although the
    Company expects significant benefits, such as increased cost
    savings, to result from the Merger, there can be no assurance
    that the Company will realize all of these anticipated benefits.


 


    Product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost
    prohibitive or unavailable.


 


    As a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance
    has become less available while the cost has increased
    significantly. With respect to product liability, the Company
    self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability
    of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. The Company
    has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of
    obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely
    benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no
    insurance for certain product liabilities effective
    August 1, 2004, including liability for legacy Merck
    products first sold after that date. The Company will
    continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk;
    however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will
    be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover
    product liabilities that may arise.


 


    The Company may not be able to realize the expected benefits
    of its investments in emerging markets.


 


    The Company has been taking steps to increase its presence in
    emerging markets. However, there is no guarantee that the
    Company’s efforts to expand sales in emerging markets will
    succeed. Some countries within emerging markets may be
    especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability
    or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. In
    order for the Company to successfully implement its emerging
    markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified
    personnel. The Company may also be required to increase its
    reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. In
    addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate
    substantially and if such currencies devalue and we cannot
    offset the devaluations, the Company’s financial
    performance within such countries could be adversely affected.


 


    For all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry
    significant risks. However, a failure to continue to expand the
    Company’s business in emerging markets could have a
    material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or
    results of the Company’s operations.


 


    The Company has significant global operations, which expose
    it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a
    material negative impact on the Company’s results of
    operations.


 


    The extent of the Company’s operations outside the United
    States are significant. Risks inherent in conducting a global
    business include:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and
    pricing restrictions in key markets;




 



     
        •  

    
    multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the
    Company’s ability to manufacture and sell its products in
    key markets;




 



     
        •  

    
    trade protection measures and import or export licensing
    requirements;




 



     
        •  

    
    foreign exchange fluctuations;




 



     
        •  

    
    diminished protection of intellectual property in some
    countries; and




 



     
        •  

    
    possible nationalization and expropriation.







    
    35



 




 


    As discussed below, in 2010 the Company was required to
    remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to
    U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was determined to be
    hyperinflationary. Also, in January and again in December 2010,
    the Venezuelan government devalued its currency. These actions
    have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations, financial position and
    cash flows.


 


    Furthermore, the Company believes the credit and economic
    conditions within Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal, among other
    members of the EU, have deteriorated during 2010. These
    conditions, as well as inherent variability of timing of cash
    receipts, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an
    increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect
    on the accounts receivable outstanding in these countries. As of
    December 31, 2010, the Company’s accounts receivable
    in Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal totaled approximately
    $1.4 billion of which hospital and public sector
    receivables in Greece were approximately 15%. During 2010, the
    Greek government announced it would exchange zero coupon bonds
    for outstanding
    2007-2009
    accounts receivable related to certain government sponsored
    institutions.


 


    In addition, there may be changes to the Company’s business
    and political position if there is instability, disruption or
    destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of
    cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or
    social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including
    famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease.



 



    Cautionary
    Factors that May Affect Future Results


 


    (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995)


 


    This report, including the Annual Report, and other written
    reports and oral statements made from time to time by the
    Company may contain so-called “forward-looking
    statements,” all of which are based on management’s
    current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties
    which may cause results to differ materially from those set
    forth in the statements. One can identify these forward-looking
    statements by their use of words such as
    “anticipates,” “expects,” “plans,”
    “will,” “estimates,” “forecasts,”
    “projects” and other words of similar meaning. One can
    also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly
    to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to
    address the Company’s growth strategy, financial results,
    product development, product approvals, product potential, and
    development programs. One must carefully consider any such
    statement and should understand that many factors could cause
    actual results to differ materially from the Company’s
    forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate
    assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and
    uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are
    not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual
    future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume
    the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. The
    Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements. Although it is not possible to
    predict or identify all such factors, they may include the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Competition from generic products as the Company’s products
    lose patent protection.




 



     
        •  

    
    Increased “brand” competition in therapeutic areas
    important to the Company’s long-term business performance.




 



     
        •  

    
    The difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product
    development. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of
    new product development is inherently uncertain. A drug
    candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more
    late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory
    approval. New product candidates may appear promising in
    development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or
    safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory
    approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture
    and/or the
    infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of
    others. Furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be
    disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels.




 



     
        •  

    
    Pricing pressures, both in the United States and abroad,
    including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial
    decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to
    Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical
    reimbursement and pricing in general.







    
    36



 




 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Changes in government laws and regulations and the enforcement
    thereof affecting the Company’s business.




 



     
        •  

    
    Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products,
    whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product
    recalls, withdrawals or declining sales.




 



     
        •  

    
    Significant litigation related to Vioxx, and Vytorin
    and Zetia.




 



     
        •  

    
    The arbitration proceeding involving the Company’s right to
    distribute Remicade and Simponi.




 



     
        •  

    
    Legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust
    litigation and governmental investigations, including tax
    disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with
    branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude
    commercialization of products or negatively affect the
    profitability of existing products.




 



     
        •  

    
    Lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties
    in the approval process of the FDA and foreign regulatory
    authorities.




 



     
        •  

    
    Increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world,
    including the United States and the EU. The legislative and
    regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues
    to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on
    privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect
    directly the Company’s business, including recently enacted
    laws in a majority of states in the United States requiring
    security breach notification.




 



     
        •  

    
    Changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of
    foreign earnings.




 



     
        •  

    
    Changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by
    standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board and the SEC, that are adverse to the
    Company.




 



     
        •  

    
    Economic factors over which the Company has no control,
    including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign
    currency exchange rates.





 


    This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of
    all potential risks and uncertainties. See “Risk
    Factors” above.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B