Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Schering-Plough’s future operating results and cash flows
    may differ materially from the results described in this
    10-K due to
    risks and uncertainties related to Schering-Plough’s
    business, including those discussed below. In addition, these
    factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause
    actual results to differ materially from those implied by
    forward-looking statements contained in this report.


 



    Key
    Schering-Plough
    products generate a significant amount of Schering-Plough’s
    profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the
    market for its leading products could have a material and
    negative impact on results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Schering-Plough’s ability to generate profits and operating
    cash flow is largely dependent upon the continued profitability
    of Schering-Plough’s cholesterol franchise, consisting of
    VYTORIN and ZETIA. In addition, products such as PEG-INTRON,
    REBETOL, REMICADE, TEMODAR, OTC CLARITIN and NASONEX accounted
    for a material portion of 2006 revenues. As a result of
    Schering-Plough’s dependence on key products, any events
    that adversely affect the markets for these products could have
    a significant impact on results of operations. These events
    include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated
    with manufacturing, OTC availability of Schering-Plough’s
    product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously
    unknown side effects, increased competition from the
    introduction of new, more effective treatments and
    discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for
    any reason.


 


    For example, the profitability of Schering-Plough’s
    cholesterol franchise may be adversely affected by the
    introduction of multiple generic forms in December 2006 of two
    competing cholesterol products that lost patent protection
    earlier in the year.


 


    In recent years, the market for PEG-INTRON and REBETOL has been
    adversely affected. As a result of the introduction of a
    competitor’s product for pegylated interferon and the
    introduction of generic ribavirin, the value of PEG-INTRON
    (pegylated interferon) and REBETOL (ribavirin) combination
    therapy for hepatitis has been severely diminished and earnings
    and cash flow have been materially and negatively impacted.


 



    There
    is a high risk that funds invested in research will not generate
    financial returns because the development of novel drugs
    requires significant expenditures with a low probability of
    success.


 


    There is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to
    develop new drugs to treat diseases. As a result, there is a
    high risk that funds invested in research programs will not
    generate financial returns. This risk profile is



    
    13



Table of Contents




    compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment
    cycle. To bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery
    phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur
    at any point in the process, including later in the process
    after significant funds have been invested.


 



    Schering-Plough’s
    success is dependent on the development and marketing of new
    products, and uncertainties in the regulatory and approval
    process may result in the failure of products to reach the
    market.


 


    Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach
    market for numerous reasons, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of
    competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or
    pre-clinical testing;



 


     
        • 

    
    failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including
    delays in the approval of new products and new indications;



 


     
        • 

    
    lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other
    factors; and



 


     
        • 

    
    preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of
    others.





 



    Intellectual
    property protection for innovation is an important contributor
    to Schering-Plough’s profitability. Generic forms of
    Schering-Plough’s products may be introduced to the market
    as a result of the expiration of patents covering
    Schering-Plough’s products, a successful challenge to
    Schering-Plough’s patent, or the at-risk launch of a
    generic version of a Schering-Plough product, which may have a
    material and negative effect on results of
    operations.


 


    Intellectual property protection is critical to
    Schering-Plough’s ability to successfully commercialize its
    products. Upon the expiration or the successful challenge of
    Schering-Plough’s patents covering a product, competitors
    may introduce lower-priced generic versions of such products,
    which may include Schering-Plough’s well-established
    products. In recent years, some generic manufacturers have
    launched generic versions of products before the ultimate
    resolution of patent litigation (commonly known as
    “at-risk” product launches). Such generic competition
    could result in the loss of a significant portion of sales or
    downward pressures on the prices at which Schering-Plough offers
    formerly patented products, particularly in the U.S. Patents and
    patent applications relating to Schering-Plough’s
    significant products are of material importance to
    Schering-Plough.


 


    Additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that
    compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of
    national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales
    and profits from those regions and negatively affect
    Schering-Plough’s results of operations.


 



    Patent
    disputes can be costly to prosecute and defend and adverse
    judgments could result in damage awards, increased royalties and
    other similar payments and decreased sales.


 


    Patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes in
    the pharmaceutical industry are not unusual. An adverse result
    in a patent dispute involving Schering-Plough’s patents, or
    the patents of its collaborators, may lead to a loss of market
    exclusivity and render such patents invalid. An adverse result
    in a patent dispute involving patents held by a third party may
    preclude the commercialization of Schering-Plough’s
    products, force Schering-Plough to obtain licenses in order to
    continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, which
    licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms,
    negatively affect sales of existing products or result in
    injunctive relief and payment of financial remedies. For
    example, Schering-Plough’s product, DR. SCHOLL’S
    FREEZE AWAY wart removal product, is currently the subject of a
    patent infringement action brought by a third party company, and
    an adverse outcome in this action may result in
    Schering-Plough’s inability to continue manufacturing the
    product.


 


    Even if Schering-Plough is ultimately successful in a particular
    dispute, Schering-Plough may incur substantial costs in
    defending its patents and other intellectual property rights.
    For example, a generic manufacturer may file an Abbreviated New
    Drug Application seeking approval after the expiration of the
    applicable data exclusivity and alleging that one or more of the
    patents listed in the innovator’s New Drug



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Application are invalid or not infringed. This allegation is
    commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The
    innovator then has the ability to file suit against the generic
    manufacturer to enforce its patents. In recent years, generic
    manufacturers have used Paragraph IV certifications
    extensively to challenge patents on a wide array of innovative
    pharmaceuticals, and it is anticipated that this trend will
    continue. The potential for litigation regarding
    Schering-Plough’s intellectual property rights always
    exists and may be initiated by third parties attempting to
    abridge Schering-Plough’s rights, as well as by
    Schering-Plough in protecting its rights. See “Patent
    Challenges Under the Hatch-Waxman Act” in Item 1,
    “Business”, for a discussion of current
    Paragraph IV certifications for Schering-Plough products.


 



    U.S.
    and foreign regulations, including those establishing
    Schering-Plough’s ability to price products, may negatively
    affect Schering-Plough’s sales and profit
    margins.


 


    Schering-Plough faces increased pricing pressure in the U.S. and
    abroad from managed care organizations, institutions and
    government agencies and programs that could negatively affect
    Schering-Plough’s sales and profit margins. For example,
    the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act
    of 2003 contains a prescription drug benefit for individuals who
    are eligible for Medicare. The prescription drug benefit became
    effective on January 1, 2006, and is resulting in increased
    use of generics and increased purchasing power of those
    negotiating on behalf of Medicare recipients.


 


    In addition to legislation concerning price controls, other
    trends that could affect Schering-Plough’s business include
    legislative or regulatory action relating to pharmaceutical
    pricing and reimbursement, health care reform initiatives and
    drug importation legislation, involuntary approval of medicines
    for OTC use, consolidation among customers and trends toward
    managed care and health care costs containment.


 


    As a result of the U.S. government’s efforts to reduce
    Medicaid expenses, managed care organizations continue to grow
    in influence and Schering-Plough faces increased pricing
    pressure as managed care organizations continue to seek price
    discounts with respect to Schering-Plough’s products.


 


    Outside of the U.S., many governmental agencies strictly
    control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which
    pharmaceutical products are sold. In the international markets,
    cost control methods including restrictions on physician
    prescription levels and patient reimbursements; emphasis on
    greater use of generic drugs; and across-the-board price cuts
    may decrease revenues internationally.


 



    There
    are material pending government investigations against
    Schering-Plough, which could lead to the commencement of civil
    and/or
    criminal proceedings involving the imposition of substantial
    fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies,
    including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, and
    which could give rise to other investigations or litigation by
    government entities or private parties.


 


    Schering-Plough cannot predict with certainty the outcome of the
    pending investigations to which it is subject, any of which may
    lead to a judgment or settlement involving a significant
    monetary award or restrictions on its operations.


 


    The pricing, sales and marketing programs and arrangements, and
    related business practices of Schering-Plough and other
    participants in the health care industry are under increasing
    scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative,
    prosecutorial and administrative entities. These entities
    include the Department of Justice and its
    U.S. Attorney’s Offices, the Office of Inspector
    General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the FDA,
    the Federal Trade Commission and various state Attorneys General
    offices. Many of the health care laws under which certain of
    these governmental entities operate, including the federal and
    state anti-kickback statutes and statutory and common law false
    claims laws, have been construed broadly by the courts and
    permit the government entities to exercise significant
    discretion. In the event that any of those governmental entities
    believes that wrongdoing has occurred, one or more of them could
    institute civil or criminal proceedings which, if resolved
    unfavorably, could subject Schering-Plough to substantial fines,
    penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including
    exclusion from government reimbursement programs. In addition,
    an adverse outcome to a government investigation could prompt
    other government entities to commence investigations of
    Schering-Plough or cause those entities or private parties to
    bring civil claims against it. Schering-Plough also cannot
    predict whether



    
    15



Table of Contents




    any investigations will affect its marketing practices or sales.
    Any such result could have a material adverse impact on
    Schering-Plough’s results of operations, cash flows,
    financial condition, or its business.


 


    Regardless of the merits or outcomes of these investigations,
    government investigations are costly, divert management’s
    attention from Schering-Plough’s business and may result in
    substantial damage to Schering-Plough’s reputation. Please
    refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for
    descriptions of these pending investigations.


 



    There
    are other legal matters in which adverse outcomes could
    negatively affect Schering-Plough’s business.


 


    Unfavorable outcomes in other pending litigation matters, or in
    future litigation, including litigation concerning product
    pricing, securities law violations, product liability claims,
    ERISA matters, patent and intellectual property disputes, and
    antitrust matters could preclude the commercialization of
    products, negatively affect the profitability of existing
    products and could subject Schering-Plough to substantial fines,
    penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including
    exclusion from government reimbursement programs. Any such
    result could materially and adversely affect
    Schering-Plough’s results of operations, cash flows,
    financial condition, or its business.


 


    Please refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for
    descriptions of significant pending litigation.


 



    Schering-Plough
    is subject to governmental regulations, and the failure to
    comply with, as well as the costs of compliance of, these
    regulations may adversely affect Schering-Plough’s
    financial position and results of operations.


 


    Schering-Plough’s manufacturing facilities and
    clinical/research practices must meet stringent regulatory
    standards and are subject to regular inspections. The cost of
    regulatory compliance, including that associated with compliance
    failures, can materially affect Schering-Plough’s financial
    position and results of operations. Failure to comply with
    regulations, which include pharmacovigilance reporting
    requirements and standards relating to clinical, laboratory and
    manufacturing practices, can result in delays in the approval of
    drugs, seizure or recalls of drugs, suspension or revocation of
    the authority necessary for the production and sale of drugs,
    fines and other civil or criminal sanctions.


 


    For example, in May 2002, Schering-Plough agreed with the FDA to
    the entry of a Consent Decree to resolve issues related to
    compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices at certain
    of Schering-Plough’s facilities in New Jersey and Puerto
    Rico. The Consent Decree work placed significant additional
    controls on production and release of products from these sites,
    which increased costs and slowed production and led to a
    reduction in the number of products produced at the sites.
    Further, Schering-Plough’s research and development
    operations were negatively impacted by the Consent Decree
    because these operations share common facilities with the
    manufacturing operations.


 


    Schering-Plough also is subject to other regulations, including
    environmental, health and safety, and labor regulations.


 



    Developments
    following regulatory approval may decrease demand for
    Schering-Plough’s products.


 


    Even after a product reaches market, certain developments
    following regulatory approval, including results in
    post-marketing Phase IV trials, may decrease demand for
    Schering-Plough’s products, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the re-review of products that are already marketed;



 


     
        • 

    
    new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories;



 


     
        • 

    
    the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are
    already marketed;



 


     
        • 

    
    uncertainties concerning safety labeling changes; and



 


     
        • 

    
    greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion.






    
    16



Table of Contents



 


    In the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing
    surveillance of certain marketed drugs of competitors within the
    industry have raised safety concerns that have led to recalls,
    withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. These
    situations also have raised concerns among some prescribers and
    patients relating to the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical
    products in general, which have negatively affected the sales of
    such products.


 


    In addition, following the wake of recent product withdrawals of
    other companies and other significant safety issues, health
    authorities such as the FDA, the European Medicines Agency and
    the Pharmaceuticals and Medicines Device Agency have increased
    their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of
    drugs. Some health authorities appear to have become more
    cautious when making decisions about approvability of new
    products or indications and are re-reviewing select products
    that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties
    in the regulatory processes. There is also greater regulatory
    scrutiny, especially in the U.S., on advertising and promotion
    and in particular,
    direct-to-consumer
    advertising.


 


    If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is
    an increase in the prevalence of negative publicity regarding
    known side effects of any of Schering-Plough’s products, it
    could significantly reduce demand for the product or may require
    Schering-Plough to remove the product from the market. Further,
    in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies
    operate, Schering-Plough is at risk for product liability claims
    for its products.


 



    New
    products and technological advances developed by
    Schering-Plough’s competitors may negatively affect
    sales.


 


    Schering-Plough operates in a highly competitive industry.
    Schering-Plough competes with a large number of multinational
    pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and generic
    pharmaceutical companies. Many of Schering-Plough’s
    competitors have been conducting research and development in
    areas both served by Schering-Plough’s current products and
    by those products Schering-Plough is in the process of
    developing. Competitive developments that may impact
    Schering-Plough include technological advances by, patents
    granted to, and new products developed by competitors or new and
    existing generic, prescription
    and/or OTC
    products that compete with products of Schering-Plough or the
    Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership. In addition, it
    is possible that doctors, patients and providers may favor those
    products offered by competitors due to safety, efficacy, pricing
    or reimbursement characteristics, and as a result
    Schering-Plough will be unable to maintain its sales for such
    products.


 



    Competition
    from third parties may make it difficult for Schering-Plough to
    acquire or license new products or product candidates
    (regardless of stage of development) or to enter into such
    transactions on terms that permit Schering-Plough to generate a
    positive financial impact.


 


    Schering-Plough depends on acquisition and in-licensing
    arrangements as a source for new products. Opportunities for
    obtaining or licensing new products are limited, however, and
    securing rights to them typically requires substantial amounts
    of funding or substantial resource commitments. Schering-Plough
    competes for these opportunities against many other companies
    and third parties that have greater financial resources and
    greater ability to make other resource commitments.
    Schering-Plough may not be able to acquire or license new
    products, which could adversely impact Schering-Plough and its
    prospects. Schering-Plough may also have difficulty acquiring or
    licensing new products on acceptable terms. To secure rights to
    new products, Schering-Plough may have to make substantial
    financial or other resource commitments that could limit its
    ability to produce a positive financial impact from such
    transactions.


 



    Schering-Plough
    relies on third-party relationships for its key products, and
    the conduct and changing circumstances of such third parties may
    adversely impact the business.


 


    Schering-Plough has several relationships with third parties on
    which Schering-Plough depends for many of its key products. Very
    often these third parties compete with Schering-Plough or have
    interests that are not aligned with the interests of
    Schering-Plough. Notwithstanding any contracts Schering-Plough
    has with these third parties,



    
    17



Table of Contents




    Schering-Plough may not be able to control or influence the
    conduct of these parties, or the circumstances that affect them,
    either of which could adversely impact Schering-Plough.


 



    Schering-Plough
    operates a global business that exposes Schering-Plough to
    additional risks, and any adverse events could have a material
    negative impact on results of operations.


 


    Schering-Plough operates in more than 120 countries, and
    non-U.S. operations
    generate the majority of Schering-Plough’s profit and cash
    flow.
    Non-U.S. operations
    are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting
    business overseas. These risks include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs
    and pricing restrictions;



 


     
        • 

    
    multiple foreign regulatory requirements that could restrict
    Schering-Plough’s ability to manufacture and sell its
    products;



 


     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in inflation, interest rate, and foreign currency
    exchange rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    trade protection measures and import or export licensing
    requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    diminished protection of intellectual property in some
    countries; and



 


     
        • 

    
    possible nationalization and expropriation.





 


    In addition, there may be changes to Schering-Plough’s
    business and political position if there is instability,
    disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region,
    regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil
    insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made
    disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or
    disease.


 



    Insurance
    coverage for product liability may become unavailable or cost
    prohibitive.


 


    Schering-Plough maintains insurance coverage with such
    deductibles and self-insurance to reflect market conditions
    (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is
    written, and the relationship of insurance coverage to
    self-insurance varies accordingly. However, as a result of
    increased product liability claims in the pharmaceutical
    industry, the availability of third party insurance may become
    unavailable or cost prohibitive.


 



    Schering-Plough
    is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in
    additional liabilities that may affect results of
    operations.


 


    Schering-Plough is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in
    the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment
    is required for determining Schering-Plough’s tax
    liabilities, and Schering-Plough’s tax returns are
    periodically examined by various tax authorities.
    Schering-Plough’s U.S. federal income tax returns for
    the
    1997-2002
    period are currently under audit by the Internal Revenue
    Service. Schering-Plough may be challenged by the IRS and other
    tax authorities on positions it has taken in its income tax
    returns. Although Schering-Plough believes that its accrual for
    tax contingencies is adequate for all open years, based on past
    experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about
    potential actions by tax authorities, due to the complexity of
    tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters
    may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued.


 


    In addition, Schering-Plough may be impacted by changes in tax
    laws including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to
    the remittance of foreign earnings, new tax laws and revised tax
    law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B