Item 1A. Risk Factors" -->


Item 1A. Risk Factors


     
Marathon is subject to various risks and uncertainties in the
course of its business. The following summarizes some, but not
all, of the risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect
our business, financial condition or results of operations.



A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas
prices would reduce our revenues, operating results and future
rate of growth.


    
Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely. Our revenues,
operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent
on the prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and refined
products. Historically, the markets for oil, natural gas and
refined products have been volatile and may continue to be
volatile in the future. Many of the factors influencing prices
of oil, natural gas and refined products are beyond our control.
These factors include:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for oil and
    natural gas;



     



     
    • 
    
    the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum
    Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and
    production controls;



     



     
    • 
    
    political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing
    regions; and



     



     
    • 
    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes.




    
The long-term effects of these and other conditions on the
prices of oil and natural gas are uncertain.


    
Lower oil and natural gas prices may reduce the amount of oil
and natural gas that we produce, which may reduce our revenues
and operating income. Significant reductions in oil and natural
gas prices could require us to reduce our capital expenditures.



Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves depend on many
factors and assumptions, including various assumptions that are
based on conditions in existence as of the dates of the
estimates. Any material changes in those conditions or other
factors affecting those assumptions could impair the quantity
and value of our oil and natural gas reserves.


    
The proved oil and natural gas reserve information included in
this Report has been derived from engineering estimates. Those
estimates were prepared by our personnel and reviewed, on a
selected basis, by third-party petroleum engineers. The
estimates were calculated using oil and natural gas prices in
effect as of December 31, 2005, as well as other conditions
in existence as of that date. Any significant future price
changes may have a material effect on the quantity and present
value of our proved reserves. Future reserve revisions could
also result from changes in, among other things, governmental
regulation and severance and other production taxes.


    
Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves
estimating volumes to be recovered from underground
accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be directly
measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using
industry-accepted geologic and engineering practices and
scientific methods, may produce different estimates of reserves
and future net cash flows based on the same available data.
Because of the subjective nature of oil and natural gas reserve
estimates, each of the following items may differ materially
from the amounts or other factors estimated:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    the amount and timing of oil and natural gas production;



     



     
    • 
    
    the revenues and costs associated with that production; and



     



     
    • 
    
    the amount and timing of future development expenditures.




    
The discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves
included in this Report should not be considered as the market
value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As
required by generally accepted accounting principles, the
estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved
reserves are based generally on prices and costs as of the date
of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be
materially higher or lower.


    
In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is
required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues
for reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting
principles is not necessarily the most appropriate discount
factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time
and risks associated with our business and the oil and natural
gas industry in general.


22



Table of Contents


If we are unsuccessful in acquiring or finding additional
reserves, our future oil and natural gas production would
decline, thereby reducing our cash flows and results of
operations and impairing our financial condition.


    
The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties
generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the
extent we acquire additional properties containing proved
reserves, conduct successful exploration and development
activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional
behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved
reserves will decline materially as oil and natural gas is
produced.



Increases in crude oil prices and environmental regulations
may reduce our refined product margins.


    
The profitability of our refining, marketing and transportation
operations depends largely on the margin between the cost of
crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices
we obtain for refined products. We are a net purchaser of crude
oil. A significant portion of our crude oil is purchased from
various foreign national oil companies, producing companies and
trading companies, including suppliers from the Middle East.
These purchases are subject to political, geographic and
economic risks attendant to doing business with suppliers
located in that area of the world. Our overall RM&T
profitability could be adversely affected by the availability of
supply and rising crude oil and other feedstock prices which we
do not recover in the marketplace. Refined product margins have
been historically volatile and vary with the level of economic
activity in the various marketing areas, the regulatory climate,
logistical capabilities and the available supply of refined
products.


    
In addition, environmental regulations, particularly the 1990
amendments to the Clean Air Act, have imposed, and are expected
to continue to impose, increasingly stringent and costly
requirements on refining and marketing operations, which may
reduce our refined product margins.



If we do not compete successfully with our competitors, our
future operating performance and profitability could materially
decline.


    
We compete with major integrated and independent oil and natural
gas companies for the acquisition of oil and natural gas leases
and other properties. We compete with these companies, as well
as national oil companies, for the equipment and labor required
to develop and operate those properties and in the marketing of
oil and natural gas to end-users. In addition, in implementing
our integrated gas strategy, we compete with major integrated
energy companies in bidding for and developing liquefied natural
gas projects, which are very capital intensive. Many of our
competitors have financial and other resources substantially
greater than those available to us. As a consequence, we may be
at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring additional properties
and bidding for and developing additional projects, such as LNG
plants. Many of our larger competitors in the LNG market can
complete more projects than we have the capacity to complete,
which could lead those competitors to realize economies of scale
that we are unable to realize. In addition, many of our larger
competitors may be better able to respond to factors that affect
the demand for oil and natural gas, such as changes in worldwide
prices and levels of production, the cost and availability of
alternative fuels and the application of government regulations.



We will continue to incur substantial capital expenditures
and operating costs as a result of environmental laws and
regulations, and, as a result, our profitability could be
materially reduced.


    
Our businesses are subject to numerous laws and regulations
relating to the protection of the environment. We have incurred
and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and
maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these
laws and regulations. To the extent these expenditures, as with
all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our
products and services, operating results will be adversely
affected. The specific impact of these laws and regulations on
each of our competitors may vary depending on a number of
factors, including the age and location of their operating
facilities, marketing area and production processes. We may also
be required to make material expenditures or may become subject
to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate in connection
with new, amended or more stringent requirements, stricter
interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery
of contamination. In addition, any failure by us to comply with
existing or future laws could result in civil or criminal fines
and other enforcement action against us.


    
Our operations and those of our predecessors could expose us to
civil claims by third parties for alleged liability resulting
from contamination of the environment or personal injuries
caused by releases of hazardous substances.


    
Environmental laws are subject to frequent change and many of
them have become more stringent. In some cases, they can impose
liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible
party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability
on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have
caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable
requirements when we performed them.


23



Table of Contents


Worldwide political and economic developments could damage
our operations and materially reduce our profitability.


    
Local political and economic factors in international markets
could have a material adverse effect on us. Approximately
50 percent of our oil and natural gas production in 2005
was derived from production outside the United States and
approximately 70 percent of our proved reserves as of
December 31, 2005 were located outside the United States.
In addition, we are increasing the focus of our development
operations on areas outside the United States.


    
There are many risks associated with operations in international
markets, including changes in foreign governmental policies
relating to crude oil, natural gas or refined product pricing
and taxation, other political, economic or diplomatic
developments and international monetary fluctuations. These
risks include:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    political and economic instability, war, acts of terrorism and
    civil disturbances;



     



     
    • 
    
    the possibility that a foreign government may seize our property
    with or without compensation or may attempt to renegotiate or
    revoke existing contractual arrangements; and



     



     
    • 
    
    fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and
    currency controls.




    
Continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or
threat of future terrorist attacks could cause a downturn in the
economies of the United States and other developed countries. A
lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in
energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins
to decline and limit our future growth prospects. More
specifically, these risks could lead to increased volatility in
prices for crude oil, natural gas and refined products. In
addition, these risks could increase instability in the
financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult for
us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverages that we
consider adequate.


    
Actions of the United States government through tax and other
legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions could
reduce our operating profitability both in the United States and
overseas. The United States government can prevent or restrict
us from doing business in foreign countries. These restrictions
and those of foreign governments have in the past limited our
ability to operate in or gain access to opportunities in various
countries. Actions by both the United States and host
governments have affected operations significantly in the past
and will continue to do so in the future.



Our operations are subject to business interruptions and
casualty losses, and we do not insure against all potential
losses and therefore we could be seriously harmed by unexpected
liabilities.


    
Our exploration and production operations are subject to
unplanned occurrences, including blowouts, explosions, fires,
loss of well control, spills, hurricanes and other adverse
weather, labor disputes and maritime accidents. In addition, our
refining, marketing and transportation operations are subject to
business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds and
unplanned events such as explosions, fires, pipeline
interruptions, crude oil or refined product spills, inclement
weather or labor disputes. They are also subject to the
additional hazards of marine operations, such as capsizing,
collision and damage or loss from severe weather conditions. We
maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses
or liabilities arising from these operating hazards in amounts
that we believe to be prudent. Uninsured losses and liabilities
arising from operating hazards could reduce the funds available
to us for exploration, drilling and production and could
materially reduce our profitability.



If Ashland fails to pay its taxes, we could be responsible
for satisfying various tax obligations of Ashland.


    
As a result of the transactions in which we acquired the
minority interest in MPC from Ashland, Marathon is severally
liable for federal income taxes (and in some cases for certain
state taxes) for tax years of Ashland still open as of the date
we completed the transactions. We have entered into a tax
matters agreement with Ashland, which provides that:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    we will be responsible for the tax liabilities of the Marathon
    group of companies, including the tax liabilities of MPC and the
    other companies and businesses we acquired in the transactions
    (for periods after the completion of the transactions); and



     



     
    • 
    
    Ashland will generally be responsible for the tax liabilities of
    the Ashland group of companies before the completion of the
    transactions, and the income taxes attributable to
    Ashland’s interest in MPC before the completion of the
    transactions. However, under certain circumstances we will have
    several liability for those tax liabilities owed by Ashland to
    various taxing authorities, including the Internal Revenue
    Service.





If Ashland fails to pay any tax obligation for which we are
severally liable, we may be required to satisfy this tax
obligation. That would leave us in the position of having to
seek indemnification from Ashland. In that event, our


24



Table of Contents


indemnification claims against Ashland would constitute general
unsecured claims, which would be effectively subordinate to the
claims of secured creditors of Ashland, and we would be subject
to collection risk associated with collecting unsecured debt
from Ashland.



Marathon is required to pay Ashland for deductions relating
to various contingent liabilities of Ashland, which could be
material.


    
We are required to claim tax deductions for certain contingent
liabilities that will be paid by Ashland after completion of the
transactions. Under the tax matters agreement, we are required
to pay the benefit of those deductions to Ashland, with the
computation and payment terms for such tax benefit payments
divided into two “baskets,” as described below:



Basket One – This applies to the first
$30 million of contingent liability deductions (increased
by inflation each year up to a maximum of $60 million) that
we may claim in each year for the first 20 years following
the acquisition. The benefit of Basket One deductions is
determined by multiplying the amount of the deduction by 32%
(or, if different, by a percentage equal to three percentage
points less than the highest federal income tax rate during the
applicable tax year). We are obligated to pay this amount to
Ashland. The computation and payment of Basket One amounts does
not depend on our ability to generate actual tax savings from
the use of the contingent liability deductions in Basket One.
Upon specified events related to Ashland (or after
20 years), the contingent liability deductions that would
otherwise have been compensated under Basket One will be taken
into account in Basket Two. In addition, Basket One applies only
for Federal income tax purposes; state, local or foreign tax
benefits attributable to specified liability deductions will be
compensated only under Basket Two.


    
Because we are required to make payments to Ashland whether or
not we generate any actual tax savings from the Basket One
contingent liability deductions, the amount of our tax benefit
payments to Ashland with respect to Basket One contingent
liability deductions may exceed the aggregate tax benefits that
we derive from these deductions. We are obligated to make these
payments to Ashland even if we do not have sufficient taxable
income to realize any benefit for the deductions.



Basket Two – All contingent liability
deductions relating to Ashland’s pre-transactions
operations that are not subject to Basket One are considered and
compensated under Basket Two. The benefit of Basket Two
deductions is determined on a “with and without”
basis; that is, the contingent liability deductions are treated
as the last deductions used by the Marathon group. Thus, if the
Marathon group has deductions, tax credits or other tax benefits
of its own, it will be deemed to use them to the maximum extent
possible before it will be deemed to use the contingent
liability deductions. To the extent that we have the capacity to
use the contingent liability deductions based on this
methodology, the actual amount of tax saved by the Marathon
group through the use of the contingent liability deductions
will be calculated and paid to Ashland. Because Basket Two
amounts are calculated based on the actual tax saved by the
Marathon group from the use of Basket Two deductions, those
amounts are subject to recalculation in the event there is a
change in the Marathon group’s tax liability for a
particular year. This could occur because of audit adjustments
or carrybacks of losses or credits from other years, for
example. To the extent that such a recalculation results in a
smaller Basket Two benefit with respect to a contingent
liability deduction for which Ashland has already received
compensation, Ashland is required to repay such compensation to
Marathon. In the event we become entitled to any repayment, we
would be subject to collection risks associated with collecting
an unsecured claim from Ashland.



If the transactions resulting in our acquisition of the
minority interest in MPC previously owned by Ashland were found
to constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, we could be
required to provide additional consideration to Ashland or to
return a portion of the interest in MPC, and either of those
results could have a material adverse effect on us.


    
In a bankruptcy case or lawsuit initiated by one or more
creditors or a representative of creditors of Ashland, a court
may review our recently completed transactions with Ashland
under the fraudulent transfer provisions of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code and comparable provisions of state
fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws. Under those laws, the
transactions would be deemed fraudulent if the court determined
that the transactions were undertaken for the purpose of
hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or that the
transactions were constructively fraudulent. If the transactions
were found to be a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, we might
be required to provide additional consideration to Ashland or to
return all or a portion of the interest in MPC and the other
assets we acquired from Ashland.


    
Under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and the laws of most states,
a transaction could be held to be constructively fraudulent if a
court determined that:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    the transferor received less than “reasonably equivalent
    value” or, in some jurisdictions, less than “fair
    consideration” or “valuable
    consideration;” and




25



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    the transferor:









    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    was insolvent at the time of the transfer or was rendered
    insolvent by the transfer;



     



     
    • 
    
    was engaged, or was about to engage, in a business or
    transaction for which its remaining property constituted
    unreasonably small capital; or



     



     
    • 
    
    intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its
    ability to pay as those debts matured.




    
In connection with our recently completed transactions with
Ashland, we delivered part of the overall consideration
(specifically, shares of our common stock having a value of
$915 million) to Ashland’s shareholders. In order to
help establish that Ashland nevertheless received reasonably
equivalent value or fair consideration from us in the
transactions, we obtained a written opinion from a nationally
recognized appraisal firm to the effect that Ashland received
amounts that were reasonably equivalent to the combined value of
Ashland’s interest in MPC and the other assets we acquired.
We also obtained a favorable opinion from that appraisal firm
relating to various financial tests that supported our
conclusion and Ashland’s representation to us that Ashland
was not insolvent either before or after giving effect to the
closing of the transactions. Those opinions were based on
specific information provided to it and were subject to various
assumptions, including assumptions relating to Ashland’s
existing and contingent liabilities and insurance coverages.
Although we are confident in our conclusions regarding
(1) Ashland’s receipt of reasonably equivalent value
or fair consideration and (2) Ashland’s solvency, it
should be noted that the valuation of any business and a
determination of the solvency of any entity involve numerous
assumptions and uncertainties, and it is possible that a court
could disagree with our conclusions.



If United States Steel fails to perform any of its material
obligations to which we have financial exposure, we could be
required to pay those obligations, and any such payment could
materially reduce our cash flows and profitability and impair
our financial condition.


    
In connection with the separation of United States Steel from
Marathon, United States Steel agreed to hold Marathon harmless
from and against various liabilities. While we cannot estimate
some of these liabilities, the portion of these liabilities that
we can estimate amounts to $597 million as of
December 31, 2005, including accrued interest of
$9 million. If United States Steel fails to satisfy any of
those obligations, we would be required to satisfy them and seek
indemnification from United States Steel. In that event, our
indemnification claims against United States Steel would
constitute general unsecured claims, effectively subordinate to
the claims of secured creditors of United States Steel.


    
Under applicable law and regulations, we also may be liable for
any defaults by United States Steel in the performance of its
obligations to pay federal income taxes, fund its ERISA pension
plans and pay other obligations related to periods prior to the
effective date of the separation.


    
United States Steel has non-investment grade credit ratings and
has granted security interests in some of its assets. The steel
business is highly competitive and a large number of industry
participants have sought protection under bankruptcy laws in the
past. The enforceability of our claims against United States
Steel could become subject to the effect of any bankruptcy,
fraudulent conveyance or transfer or other law affecting
creditors’ rights generally, or of general principles of
equity, which might become applicable to those claims or other
claims arising from the facts and circumstances in which the
separation was effected.



If the transfer of ownership of various assets and operations
by Marathon’s former parent entity to Marathon was held to
be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer, United States
Steel’s creditors may be able to obtain recovery from us or
other relief detrimental to the holders of our common stock.


    
In July 2001, USX Corporation (“Old USX”) effected a
reorganization of the ownership of its businesses in which it
created Marathon as its publicly owned parent holding company
and transferred ownership of various assets and operations to
Marathon, and it merged into a newly formed subsidiary which
survived as United States Steel.


    
If a court in a bankruptcy case regarding United States Steel or
a lawsuit brought by its creditors or their representative were
to find that, under the applicable fraudulent conveyance or
transfer law:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    the transfer by Old USX to Marathon or related transactions were
    undertaken by Old USX with the intent of hindering, delaying or
    defrauding its existing or future creditors; or



     



     
    • 
    
    Old USX received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair
    consideration, or no value or consideration, in connection with
    those transactions, and either it or United States Steel









    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of those
    transactions,




26



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for
    which its assets constituted unreasonably small capital, or



     



     
    • 
    
    intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond
    its ability to pay as they mature,





then that court could determine those transactions entitled one
or more classes of creditors of United States Steel to equitable
relief from us. Such a determination could permit the unpaid
creditors to obtain recovery from us or could result in other
actions detrimental to the holders of our common stock. The
measure of insolvency for purposes of these considerations would
vary depending on the law of the jurisdiction being applied.



We may issue preferred stock whose terms could dilute the
voting power or reduce the value of our common stock.


    
Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to
issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more
classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences,
powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights,
including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends
and distributions, as our board of directors generally may
determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of
preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the
value of our common stock. For example, we could grant holders
of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our
directors in all events or on the happening of specified events
or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the
repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we
could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the
residual value of the common stock.






Item 1B