. Risk Factors for discussion of specific areas in which we compete and related risks.We also compete with other producers of synthetic and conventional crude oil for the sale of our synthetic crude oil to refineries primarily in North America.  Additional synthetic crude oil projects are being contemplated by various competitors and, if undertaken and completed, these projects may result in a significant increase in the supply of synthetic crude oil to the market.  Since not all refineries are able to process or refine synthetic crude oil in significant volumes, there can be no assurance that sufficient market demand will exist at all times to absorb our share of the synthetic crude oil production from the AOSP at economically viable prices.Our operating results are affected by price changes for liquid hydrocarbons, synthetic crude oil and natural gas, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve.  Generally, results from oil and gas production and OSM operations benefit from higher crude oil prices.  Market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations.  See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Overview – Market Conditions for additional discussion of the impact of prices on our operations.Environmental, Health and Safety MattersThe Health, Environmental, Safety and Corporate Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing our position on public issues, including environmental, health and safety matters.  Our Corporate Health, Environment, 21Safety and Security organization has the responsibility to ensure that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  Committees comprised of certain of our officers review our overall performance associated with various environmental compliance programs.  We also have a Corporate Emergency Response Team which oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our properties. Our businesses are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, health and safety.  These laws and regulations include the Occupational Safety and Health Act ("OSHA") with respect to the protection of the health and safety of employees, the Clean Air Act ("CAA") with respect to air emissions, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (also known as the Clean Water Act ("CWA")) with respect to water discharges, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA") with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPA-90") with respect to oil pollution and response, the National Environmental Policy Act with respect to evaluation of environmental impacts, the Endangered Species Act with respect to the protection of endangered or threatened species, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal and the U.S. Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act with respect to the dissemination of information relating to certain chemical inventories.  In addition, many other states and countries in which we operate have their own laws dealing with similar matters. These laws and regulations could result in costs to remediate releases of regulated substances, including crude oil, into the environment, or costs to remediate sites to which we sent regulated substances for disposal.  In some cases, these laws can impose strict liability for the entire cost of clean-up on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of others (such as prior owners or operators of our assets) or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them.  New laws have been enacted and regulations are being adopted by various regulatory agencies on a continuing basis and the costs of compliance with these new rules can only be broadly appraised until their implementation becomes more defined.  Based on regulatory trends, particularly with respect to the CAA and its implementing regulations, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations.  We believe that substantially all of our competitors must comply with similar environmental laws and regulations.  However, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities, marketing areas and production processes. For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies.Air In August 2012, the U.S. EPA published final New Source Performance Standards ("NSPS") and National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants ("NESHAP") that amended existing NSPS and NESHAP standards for oil and gas facilities as well as created a new NSPS for oil and gas production, transmission and distribution facilities.  These rules, which were updated in August 2013, have been challenged, and negotiations with the U.S. EPA over proposed changes to the rules continue.  Compliance with these new rules will result in an increase in the costs of control equipment and labor and require additional notification, monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping for some of our facilities.  The U.S. EPA was also notified in December 2012 that seven northeastern states intend to sue the U.S. EPA for failure to include methane standards in these rules.  If successfully challenged, the addition of methane standards could further increase our costs to comply with these rules.In July 2011, the U.S. EPA finalized a Federal Implementation Plan under the CAA that includes New Source Review ("NSR") regulations which apply to air emissions sources on Tribal Lands.  This rule became effective on August 30, 2011, and requires the registration and/or pre-construction permitting of most of our facilities on Tribal Lands in Wyoming, Oklahoma and North Dakota.  Rather than issuing pre-construction permits for our facilities on Tribal Lands in North Dakota, in August of 2012, the U.S. EPA finalized an Interim Final Rule under the CAA that requires certain control equipment, recordkeeping, monitoring, and reporting with respect to these facilities.  Compliance with this new rule will result in an increase in the costs of control, equipment and labor and will require additional notification, monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping for our facilities on Tribal Lands in North Dakota.The U.S. EPA is expected to propose the results of its 5-year review of the 2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (“NAAQS”) in 2014, which are expected to encompass a proposal for a lower ozone NAAQS.  A more stringent ozone NAAQS could result in additional areas being designated as non-attainment, including areas in which we operate, which may result in an increase in costs for emission controls and requirements for additional monitoring and testing, as well as a more cumbersome permitting process.  Although there may be an adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and increased regulatory requirements) associated with any regulation or other action by the U.S. EPA that lowers the ozone 22NAAQS, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the present uncertainty regarding any additional measures and how they will be implemented. At the end of 2013, the U.S. EPA indicated that, in addition to sources already regulated under the current NSPS subpart OOOO, the U.S. EPA is considering petitions from members of the public to address other sources of emissions from oil and gas operations such as pneumatics, equipment leaks, liquids unloading, and associated gas.  At this time, it is uncertain how the U.S. EPA may address these sources (e.g., additional regulations or voluntary programs), what the scope may be, what emission control levels or technology are being considered or the U.S. EPA’s timing.  Although there may be an adverse financial impact associated with any such regulation or other action by the U.S. EPA, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the present uncertainty regarding any additional measures and how they will be implemented.  Climate ChangeIn 2010, the U.S. EPA promulgated rules that require us to monitor and submit an annual report on our greenhouse gas emissions.  Further, state, national and international requirements to reduce greenhouse emissions are being proposed and in some cases promulgated.  These requirements apply or could apply in countries in which we operate.  Potential legislation and regulations pertaining to climate change could also affect our operations.  The cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time.  For additional information, see . Risk Factors We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business.  The following summarizes significant risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  When considering an investment in our securities, you should carefully consider the risk factors included below as well as those matters referenced in the foregoing pages under "Disclosures Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and other information included and incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.A substantial, extended decline in liquid hydrocarbon or natural gas prices would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets.Prices for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas fluctuate widely.  Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas.  Historically, the markets for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future.  Many of the factors influencing prices of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas are beyond our control.  These factors include:•worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas;•the cost of exploring for, developing and producing liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas;•the ability of the members of OPEC to agree to and maintain production controls;•political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions;•changes in weather patterns and climate;•natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes;•the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy;•the effect of conservation efforts;•domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and•general economic conditions worldwide.The long-term effects of these and other factors on the prices of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas are uncertain.Lower liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices may cause us to reduce the amount of these commodities that we produce, which may reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flows.  Significant reductions in liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets.Our offshore operations involve special risks that could negatively impact us.Offshore exploration and development operations present technological challenges and operating risks because of the marine environment.  Activities in deepwater areas may pose incrementally greater risks because of water depths that limit intervention capability and the physical distance to oilfield service infrastructure and service providers.  Environmental remediation and other costs resulting from spills or releases may result in substantial liabilities.Estimates of liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves depend on many factors and assumptions, including various assumptions that are based on conditions in existence as of the dates of the estimates.  Any material changes in those conditions or other factors affecting those assumptions could impair the quantity and value of our liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves.The proved reserve information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been derived from engineering estimates. Estimates of liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas reserves were prepared by our in-house teams of reservoir engineers and geoscience professionals and were reviewed and approved by our Corporate Reserves Group.  The synthetic crude oil reserves estimates were prepared by GLJ Petroleum Consultants, a third-party consulting firm experienced in working with oil sands.  Reserves were valued based on the unweighted average of closing prices for the first day of each month in the 12-month periods ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, as well as other conditions in existence at those dates.  Any significant future price change will have a material effect on the quantity and present value of our proved reserves.  Future reserve revisions could also result from changes in governmental regulation, among other things. 25Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of liquid hydrocarbons, natural gas and bitumen that cannot be directly measured.  (Bitumen is mined and then upgraded into synthetic crude oil.)  Estimates of economically producible reserves and of future net cash flows depend on a number of variable factors and assumptions, including:•location, size and shape of the accumulation as well as fluid, rock and producing characteristics of the accumulation;•historical production from the area, compared with production from other comparable producing areas;•volumes of bitumen in-place and various factors affecting the recoverability of bitumen and its conversion into synthetic crude oil such as historical upgrader performance;•the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies;•assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and repair costs; and•industry economic conditions, levels of cash flows from operations and other operating considerations.As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry-accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may produce different estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data.  Because of the subjective nature of such reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated:•the amount and timing of production;•the revenues and costs associated with that production; and•the amount and timing of future development expenditures.The discounted future cash flows from our proved liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves reflected in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties.  As required by SEC Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X, the estimated discounted future cash flows from our proved liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and synthetic crude oil reserves are based on an unweighted average of closing prices for the first day of each month in the 12-month periods ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, and costs applicable at the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor required by the applicable rules of the SEC to be used to calculate discounted future cash flows for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital and the risks associated with our business and the oil and natural gas industry in general.If we are unsuccessful in acquiring or finding additional reserves, our future liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production would decline, thereby reducing our cash flows and results of operations and impairing our financial condition.The rate of production from liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted.  Except to the extent we acquire interests in additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, optimize production performance or identify additional reservoirs not currently producing or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas are produced.  Accordingly, to the extent we are not successful in replacing the liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas we produce, our future revenues will decline.  Creating and maintaining an inventory of prospects for future production depends on many factors, including:•obtaining rights to explore for, develop and produce liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas in promising areas;•drilling success;•the ability to complete long lead-time, capital-intensive projects timely and on budget;•the ability to find or acquire additional proved reserves at acceptable costs; and•the ability to fund such activity.Future exploration and drilling results are uncertain and involve substantial costs.Drilling for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas reservoirs.  The costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including:•unexpected drilling conditions;26•title problems;•pressure or irregularities in formations;•equipment failures or accidents;•fires, explosions, blowouts or surface cratering;•lack of access to pipelines or other transportation methods; and•shortages or delays in the availability of services or delivery of equipment.If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results.  Delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce.  Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:•denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits;•unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor;•disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials;•increased costs or operational delays resulting from shortages of water; •adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers;•shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;•market-related increases in a project’s debt or equity financing costs; and•nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors.Any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our capital projects.We may incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of compliance with, and/or changes in environmental, health, safety and security laws and regulations, and, as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Our businesses are subject to numerous laws, regulations and other requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment such as the venting or flaring of natural gas, waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions and the protection of endangered species as well as laws, regulations, and other requirements relating to public and employee safety and health and to facility security.  We have incurred and may continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws, regulations, and other requirements.  To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products, our operating results will be adversely affected.  The specific impact of these laws, regulations, and other requirements may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities and production processes.  We may also be required to make material expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site clean-ups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We may become subject to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate in connection with new, amended or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination.  In addition, any failure by us to comply with existing or future laws, regulations, and other requirements could result in civil penalties or criminal fines and other enforcement actions against us. We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent, causes of and responsibility for climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations.  Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation in countries where we operate, including the U.S., Canada, and Norway, and the European Union.  Our operations result in these greenhouse gas emissions.  Through 2013, domestic legislative and regulatory efforts included proposed federal legislation and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs, each of which could impose reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.  Further, in December 2012 at the Doha Climate Change Conference, 27countries agreed to extend the Kyoto Protocol to 2020.  However, the U.S. Senate has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, nor is it clear whether the U.S. Senate plans to ratify this agreement in the future.  If the U.S. does ratify the Kyoto Protocol in the future or signs a new international agreement, such actions could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls at our facilities, and costs to administer and manage any potential greenhouse gas emissions or carbon trading or tax programs.  These costs and capital expenditures could be material.  Although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce the demand for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas, and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities. Although there may be adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and potential reduced demand for liquid hydrocarbons or natural gas) associated with any legislation, regulation, or other action by the U.S. EPA, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the fact that requirements have only recently been adopted and the present uncertainty regarding any additional measures and how they will be implemented.  Private party litigation has also been brought against some emitters of greenhouse gas emissions. The potential adoption of federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves injecting water, sand, and small volumes of chemicals into the wellbore to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock thousands of feet below the surface to facilitate higher flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.  The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would require additional regulation affecting the hydraulic fracturing process.  Consideration of new federal regulation and increased state oversight continues to arise.  The U.S. EPA is conducting a comprehensive research study on the potential effects that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health, issued a progress report in late 2012, and expects to issue a draft report for public comment and peer review in 2014, with a final report expected in 2016.  In addition, various state-level initiatives in regions with substantial shale gas resources have been or may be proposed or implemented to further regulate hydraulic fracturing practices, limit water withdrawals and water use, require disclosure of fracturing fluid constituents, restrict which additives may be used, or implement temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques.  Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas, including from the shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing.  The adoption of any federal or state laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells and increased compliance costs which could increase costs of our operations and cause considerable delays in acquiring regulatory approvals to drill and complete wells. Worldwide political and economic developments and changes in law could adversely affect our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. Local political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us.  A total of 55 percent of our liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas sales volumes in 2013 was derived from production outside the U.S. and 47 percent of our proved liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2013 were located outside the U.S.  All of our synthetic crude oil production and proved reserves are located in Canada.  We are, therefore, subject to the political, geographic and economic risks and possible terrorist activities attendant to doing business within or outside of the U.S.  There are many risks associated with operations in countries such as E.G., Angola, Ethiopia, Gabon, Kenya, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and Libya, and in global markets including: •changes in governmental policies relating to liquid hydrocarbon or natural gas and taxation;•other political, economic or diplomatic developments and international monetary fluctuations;•political and economic instability, war, acts of terrorism and civil disturbances;•the possibility that a government may seize our property with or without compensation, may attempt to renegotiate or revoke existing contractual arrangements or may impose additional taxes or royalty burdens; and•fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and currency controls.Since January 2010, there have been varying degrees of political instability and public protests, including demonstrations which have been marked by violence, within some countries in the Middle East including Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Tunisia and Yemen.  Some political regimes in these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest.  28If such unrest continues to spread, conflicts could result in civil wars, regional conflicts, and regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to the U.S.  These may have the following results, among others:•volatility in global crude oil prices which could negatively impact the global economy, resulting in slower economic growth rates and reduced demand for our products;•negative impact on the world crude oil supply if transportation avenues are disrupted;•security concerns leading to the prolonged evacuation of our personnel;•damage to, or the inability to access, production facilities or other operating assets; and•inability of our service and equipment providers to deliver items necessary for us to conduct our operations.Continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the U.S. and other developed countries.  A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects.  These risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas.  In addition, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate.Actions of governments through tax legislation and other changes in law, executive order and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability, both in the U.S. and abroad. The U.S. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. These restrictions and those of foreign governments have in the past limited our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries and will continue to do so in the future. Changes in law could also adversely affect our results, including new regulations resulting in higher costs to transport our production by pipeline, rail car, truck or vessel or the adoption of government payment transparency regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive commercial information or that could cause us to violate the non-disclosure laws of other countries.Our commodity price risk management and trading activities may prevent us from fully benefiting from commodity price increases and may expose us to other risks, including counterparty risk.To the extent that we engage in price risk management activities to protect ourselves against commodity price declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the derivative instruments used to manage price risk.  In addition, our hedging arrangements may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the counterparties to our hedging contracts fail to perform under the contracts.  See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.Our business could be negatively impacted by cyber-attacks targeting our computer and telecommunications systems and infrastructure. Our business, like other companies in the oil and gas industry, has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies. Such technologies are integrated into our business operations and used as a part of our liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production and distribution systems in the U.S. and abroad, including those systems used to transport production to market.  Use of the internet and other public networks for communications, services, and storage, including “cloud” computing, exposes users (including our business) to cybersecurity risks.  While our information systems and related infrastructure experienced attempted and actual minor breaches of our cybersecurity in the past, we have not suffered any losses or breaches which had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation relating to such attacks; however, there is no assurance that we will not suffer such losses or breaches in the future.  As cyber-attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information systems and related infrastructure security vulnerabilities.Our operations may be adversely affected by pipeline, rail and other transportation capacity constraints.The marketability of our production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of pipeline facilities, rail cars, trucks and vessels. If any pipelines, rail cars, trucks or vessels become unavailable, we would, to the extent possible, be required to find a suitable alternative to transport our liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas, which could increase the costs and/or reduce the revenues we might obtain from the sale of our production.If we acquire crude oil and natural gas properties, our failure to fully identify existing and potential problems, to accurately estimate reserves, production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We typically seek the acquisition of crude oil and natural gas properties.  Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is diligent and consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor may they permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in 29order to fully assess possible deficiencies and potential problems.  Even when problems with a property are identified, we often assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements.  Moreover, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of crude oil and natural gas reserves (as previously discussed), actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties.  Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates.  In addition, an acquisition may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations, particularly during the periods in which the operations of the acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our ongoing operations.We operate in a highly competitive industry, and many of our competitors are larger and have available resources in excess of our own. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive, and many competitors, including major integrated and independent oil and gas companies, as well as national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources at their disposal than we do.  We compete with these companies for the acquisition of oil and natural gas leases and other properties.  We also compete with these companies for equipment and personnel, including petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists and other specialists, required to develop and operate those properties and in the marketing of crude oil and natural gas to end-users.  Such competition can significantly increase costs and affect the availability of resources, which could provide our larger competitors a competitive advantage when acquiring equipment, leases and other properties.  They may also be able to use their greater resources to attract and retain experienced personnel.  Many of our major projects and operations are conducted with partners, which may decrease our ability to manage risk.We often enter into arrangements to conduct certain business operations, such as oil and gas exploration and production, oil sands mining or pipeline transportation, with partners in order to share risks associated with those operations.  However, these arrangements also may decrease our ability to manage risks and costs, particularly where we are not the operator.  We could have limited influence over and control of the behaviors and performance of these operations.  In addition, misconduct, fraud, noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations or improper activities by or on behalf of one or more of our partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation.Our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. We do not insure against all potential losses and therefore we could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities and increased costs.Our North America E&P and International E&P operations are subject to unplanned occurrences, including blowouts, explosions, fires, loss of well control, spills, hurricanes and other adverse weather, tsunamis, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or nuclear or other disasters, labor disputes and accidents. Our OSM operations are subject to business interruptions due to breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and unplanned events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions or other interruptions. These same risks can be applied to the third-parties which transport our products from our facilities. A prolonged disruption in the ability of any pipelines, rail cars, trucks, or vessels to transport our production could contribute to a business interruption or increase costs.Our operations are also subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks.  These hazards could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us.  Various hazards have adversely affected us in the past, and damages resulting from a catastrophic occurrence in the future involving us or any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially large claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities.  We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from operating hazards in amounts that we believe to be prudent.  Uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating hazards could reduce the funds available to us for capital, exploration and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Historically, we have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major onshore and offshore facilities, with significant self-insured retentions.  In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates.  As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially and could escalate further.  In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage.  For example, due to hurricane activity in recent years, the availability of insurance coverage for our offshore facilities for windstorms in the Gulf of Mexico region has been reduced or, in many instances, it is prohibitively expensive.  As a result, our exposure to losses from future windstorm activity in the Gulf of Mexico region has increased.Litigation by private plaintiffs or government officials could adversely affect our performance.We currently are defending litigation and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation in the future.  The subject matter of such litigation may include releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, privacy laws, antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations.  In some cases the plaintiff or plaintiffs seek alleged damages involving large 30classes of potential litigants, and may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances.  If we are not able to successfully defend such claims, they may result in substantial liability.  We do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities.  In addition to substantial liability, litigation may also seek injunctive relief which could have an adverse effect on our future operations.In connection with our separation from MPC, MPC agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities.  However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that MPC’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations will not be impaired in the future.Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement and the Tax Sharing Agreement we entered into with MPC in connection with the spin-off, MPC agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities.  However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that MPC agreed to retain or assume, and there can be no assurance that the indemnification from MPC will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that MPC will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations.  In addition, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from MPC any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves.The spin-off could result in substantial tax liability.We obtained a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that the distribution of shares of MPC common stock in the spin-off qualified as tax free to MPC, us and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368 and related provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").  If the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling.  Furthermore, the IRS does not rule on whether a distribution such as the spin-off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code.  Rather, the private letter ruling was based on representations by us that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling.  In connection with the spin-off, we also obtained an opinion of outside counsel, substantially to the effect that, the distribution of shares of MPC common stock in the spin-off qualified as tax free to MPC, us and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368 and related provisions of the Code.  The opinion relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by MPC and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion.  The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail.If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the spin-off were determined not to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, each U.S. holder of our common stock who received shares of MPC common stock in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of MPC common stock received.  That distribution would be taxable to each such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our accumulated earnings and profits as of the effective date of the spin-off.  For each such stockholder, any amount that exceeded those earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder’s tax basis in its shares of our common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain.  We would be subject to tax as if we had sold all the outstanding shares of MPC common stock in a taxable sale for their fair market value and would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over our tax basis in such shares.Under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement we entered into with MPC in connection with the spin-off, MPC is generally responsible for any taxes imposed on MPC or us and our subsidiaries in the event that the spin-off and/or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of actions taken, or breaches of representations and warranties made in the Tax Sharing Agreement, by MPC or any of its affiliates.  However, if the spin-off and/or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or failures to act by us or any of our affiliates, we would be responsible for all such taxes.We may issue preferred stock whose terms could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Marathon Oil common stock.Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over Marathon Oil common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our Board of Directors generally may determine.  The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Marathon Oil common stock.  For example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions.  Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.31Item 1B