Item 1A   
 
be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. Many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent
introductions of new products and services. Our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. 
Competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">An important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. A well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among
users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. Establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. The strategic importance of developing and maintaining a
vibrant ecosystem increased with the launch of the Windows 8 operating system, Surface, Windows Phone, Xbox One, and associated cloud-based services. We face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications, and
services.   


 
•
 
 A competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded
with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, and digital music players. Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform. We also offer
some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services; however, our competitors in smartphones and tablets have established significantly larger user bases. Competing with the vertically integrated model will increase our cost of
revenue and reduce our operating margins.   


 
•
 
 We derive substantial revenue from licenses of Windows operating systems on personal computers. We face significant competition from competing platforms
developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. These devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. Users are increasingly turning to these devices to
perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers. Even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to
our platforms. Competing operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease PC operating system margins. In addition, Surface competes with products made by our OEM partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform.
  


 
•
 
 The success of the Windows phone platform is an important element of our goal to enhance personal productivity in a mobile-first and cloud-first world. The
marketplace among mobile phone platforms is highly competitive. We may face issues in selecting, engaging or securing support from operators and retailers for Windows phones due to, for instance, inadequate sales training or incentives, or
insufficient marketing support for the Windows Phone platform.   


 
•
 
 Competing platforms have application marketplaces (sometimes referred to as “stores”) with scale and significant installed bases on mobile devices.
The variety and utility of applications available on a platform is important to device purchasing decisions. Users incur costs to move data and buy new applications when switching platforms. To compete, we must successfully enlist developers to
write applications for our marketplace and ensure that these applications have high quality, customer appeal, and value. Efforts to compete with these application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins.
 Business model competition  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">Companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models.   


 
•
 
 Even as we transition to a mobile-first and cloud-first strategy, the license-based proprietary software model generates most of our software revenue. We bear
the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. Many of our competitors also develop and sell software to
businesses and consumers under this model. 
   16 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   



 
•
 
 Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenue
funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. 
 


 
•
 
 Some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users and
earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products. These firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. Some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality
of our products.  The competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions,
and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. This may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">Our increasing focus on services presents execution and competitive risks.    A growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing
devices. In July 2014, our leadership announced its strategic vision to compete and grow as a productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying
cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user’s choice of which suite of cloud-based
services to use. We are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. The Windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. We are embracing cultural and organizational changes to drive
accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. Besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. These costs will reduce the operating margins we have
previously achieved. Whether we succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas, including:   


 
•
 
 continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; 
 


 
•
 
 maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones,
tablets, and television-related devices, including gaming consoles;   


 
•
 
 continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers; 
 


 
•
 
 ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data; and
  


 
•
 
 making our suite of cloud-based services platform agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors.
 It is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed. If we are
not effective in executing organizational changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenues in line with the infrastructure and development
investments described above. This may negatively impact gross margins and operating income.  We make significant investments in new
products and services that may not be profitable.    We will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating
system, the Microsoft Office system, Bing, Windows Phone, Windows Server, the Windows Store, the Microsoft Azure Services platform, Office 365, other cloud-based services offerings, and the Xbox entertainment platform. We also invest in the
development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication and entertainment including PCs, tablets, phones, and gaming devices. Investments in new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors,
including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and
hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and 
   17 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   
 
distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. New products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and
businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically.  Developing new technologies is complex and
time-consuming. It can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. 
Acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business.    We expect to
continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business
strategy, that we get no satisfactory return on our investment, that we have difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or that the transaction distracts management from our other businesses. The success of these
transactions will depend in part on our ability to leverage them enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions, such as increased
revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. These events could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. 
In April 2014, we acquired from Nokia substantially all of its NDS business to accelerate our growth in phones and support the entire Windows
ecosystem. We may not realize all of the anticipated financial and other benefits from this transaction including operating efficiencies and cost savings. We may not be successful in developing a vibrant and competitive ecosystem for Windows-based
phones that combines differentiated hardware, software, services, and third-party applications. We may not achieve mobile phone market share targets. We may see lower than expected growth rates for the phone markets. The mix of premium and
lower-cost devices we sell may put downward pressure on prices or margins. We may not be effective in executing the restructuring we announced in July 2014 or otherwise integrating the NDS business with Microsoft’s ongoing operations, including
matching manufacturing capacity to demand. Existing Microsoft smart device original equipment manufacturers may respond negatively to the changes in our business or the new competitive environment. 
If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to
earnings.    We acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. We review our amortizable
intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the
carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we
participate. We may be required to record a significant charge in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of
operations. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we recorded a $6.2 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill in our previous Online Services Division business (Devices and Consumer Other under our current segment structure).
 The valuation of acquired assets and liabilities, including goodwill, resulting from the acquisition of NDS, is reflective of the
enterprise value based on the long-term financial forecast for the business. In this highly competitive and volatile market, we may not realize our forecasts. As a result, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our
consolidated financial statements due to an impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets.  We may not be able to
adequately protect our intellectual property rights.    Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property is difficult. While piracy
adversely affects U.S. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the U.S. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. Our revenue in these markets may grow slower than the
underlying device market. Similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, we educate consumers about the

   18 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   
 
benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where
intellectual property rights are protected. Reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights.    From time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may
grow because of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as Surface and Lumia
phones. To resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification
commitments with our customers. These outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. Besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or
services that have infringing technologies. In some countries, such as Germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. We have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to
the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">We may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code.    Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems
and other software programs, is critical to our business. Although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source
code. If a significant portion of our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that source code. It may become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect
our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. 
Cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position.
 Security of Microsoft’s information technology  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">Threats to information technology (“IT”) security can take a variety of forms. Individual and groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations, may take steps
that pose threats to our customers and our IT. They may develop and deploy malicious software to attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and datacenters, or act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of
service or other coordinated attacks. Cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. Cyber threats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across
our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and customers. Breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers
and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require
us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business.  In addition, our internal IT
environment continues to evolve. Often we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other
consumer-oriented technologies. Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the speed of these changes as new threats emerge.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">Security of our product, services, devices and customers’ data  Security threats are a
particular challenge to companies like us whose business is technology products and services. Threats to our own IT infrastructure can also affect our customers. Customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure to
ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. Hackers 
   19 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   
 
tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue. The security of our products and services is
important in our customers’ purchasing decisions.  To defend against security threats, both to our internal IT systems and those of
our customers, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities, develop mitigation technologies that help to
secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and
anti-virus software.  The cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. If we fail to do these things well, actual or
perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. Customers may also
spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. Customers may fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or
may fail timely to install security patches. Any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. Actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that
eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. Legislative or regulatory action in these areas may increase the costs to develop, implement or secure our products and services.
 Disclosure of personal data could cause liability and harm our reputation.    As we continue to grow the
number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers. The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external
environment increasingly hostile to information security. Despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors
on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of customer data we or our vendors store and manage. Improper disclosure could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to
liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based
environment we host. Like all providers of communications services, government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer data in response to valid legal orders. In the U.S. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these
requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure. Despite our efforts to protect customer data, perceptions that the privacy of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products
or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities. Additional security measures we may take to address customer concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how
to operate datacenters in response to customer expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses. 
We may have outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations
infrastructure.    Our increasing user traffic, growth in services and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. We spend substantial amounts to build, purchase or lease datacenters and
equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. These demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing
services such as Bing, Exchange Online, Office 365, SharePoint Online, OneDrive, Skype, Xbox Live, Microsoft Azure, Outlook.com, Microsoft Office Web Apps, Windows Stores and Microsoft Account services. We are rapidly growing our business of
providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third-parties to their end users. Maintaining, securing and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or
permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential
users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. 
   20 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   
 Government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we
design and market our products.    As a leading global software and device maker, we are closely scrutinized by government agencies under U.S. and foreign competition laws. An increasing number of governments are regulating
competition law activities and this includes increased scrutiny in potentially large markets such as China. Some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. U.S. federal and state antitrust
authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business.  The European Commission closely
scrutinizes the design of high-volume Microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. In 2004, the Commission
ordered us to create new versions of Windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols in their own products. In
2009, the Commission accepted a set of commitments offered by Microsoft to address the Commission’s concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address Commission concerns relating to interoperability.
These obligations may limit our ability to innovate in Windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the Windows platform, and increase our product development costs. The availability of licenses related to protocols and
file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products, which could hamper sales of our products.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">Our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our OEM partners offer a large variety of devices on our platforms. As a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our OEM
partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules. Regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase. Certain foreign governments, particularly in China and other countries in Asia, have advanced arguments under their
competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property. Because these jurisdictions only recently implemented competition laws, their enforcement activities are unpredictable. 
Government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and
businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. New competition law actions could be initiated. The outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways,
including:   


 
•
 
 We may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products
to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. 
 


 
•
 
 We may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our
associated intellectual property.   


 
•
 
 The rulings described above may be precedent in other competition law proceedings. 
 


 
•
 
 We are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees or other voluntary actions we have taken. If we
fail to comply with these commitments we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">Our international operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations.    The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other
anti-corruption laws and regulations (“Anti-Corruption Laws”) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. From time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere about our business activities
outside the U.S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. While we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments,
our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of
our business, and damage to our reputation. Operations outside the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. We may be subject to legal
liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of U.S. trade sanctions on countries such as Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Sudan, and Syria. 
   21 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   
 Other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user
privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. For example, regulators may take the position that our offerings such as Skype are covered by laws regulating telecommunications services. Applying these laws and regulations to our
business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Additionally, these laws and governments’ approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to
evolve. Some governments are expressing increasing concern about government surveillance practices around the world and this may lead to increased regulation requiring local hosting obligations or the use of domestic hosting providers. Compliance
with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant
activity.  Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees.    Our business is
based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. We are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic
immigration laws. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, including key employees of the NDS business acquired in April 2014, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services
may be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.
 We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes.    We are subject to a variety
of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. The litigation and other claims are subject to
inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. A material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes
probable and reasonably estimable.  We may have additional tax liabilities.    We are subject to income taxes
in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax
determination is uncertain. We regularly are under audit by tax authorities. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. Although we believe our tax
estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on
our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made.  We earn a significant amount of
our operating income from outside the U.S., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the U.S. may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. In addition, there have been proposals from Congress to change
U.S. tax laws that would significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact
on our tax expense and cash flows.  Our hardware and software products may experience quality or supply
problems.    Our vertically-integrated hardware products such as Xbox consoles, Surface devices, Lumia Smartphones, and other devices we design and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or
associated software. We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. We get some device components from sole suppliers. Our
competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available to us. If a component from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity
constraint or industry shortages, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. Component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue.
Xbox consoles and Surface devices and Lumia phones are assembled in Asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. These same risks would
apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. 
   22 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   
 Our software products also may experience quality or reliability problems. The highly
sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. Any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation,
repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these
provisions will withstand legal challenge.  Our global business exposes us to operational and economic
risks.    We operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. The global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. Emerging markets are a significant
focus of our international growth strategy. The developing nature of these markets presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing
foreign operations. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue. Competitive or regulatory pressure to
make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the U.S. and other countries. 
Catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business.    A disruption or failure of our systems or
operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, a
significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the Seattle, Washington area, and we have other business operations in the Silicon Valley area of California, both of which are
near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or IT systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. Providing our customers with more services
and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results. 
Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may
increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either of which may adversely
affect our revenue. The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy or the IT industry in particular are unclear. Environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy may affect the availability or
cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. Changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services.
 Adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business.    Worsening economic conditions, including
inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower IT spending and adversely affect our revenue. If demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products
declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. Substantial revenue comes from our U.S. government contracts. An extended federal government shutdown resulting from failing to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or
raise the debt ceiling, and other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government IT spending on our products and services and adversely affect our revenues. Our product distribution system also relies
on an extensive partner and retail network. OEMs building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. The impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, OEM, or
retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of
accounts receivable may increase. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events
that affect global financial markets. A significant part of our investment portfolio comprises U.S. government securities. If global credit and equity markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating
due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment
charges that could adversely affect our financial results. 
   23 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1B