Item 1A   
 Business model competition.    Companies compete with us based on a
growing variety of business models.   


 
•
 
 Under the license-based proprietary software model that generates most of our revenue, we bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products
through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. Many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model and we expect this
competition to continue.   


 
•
 
 Other competitors develop and offer free online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenues fund development
of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products.   


 
•
 
 Some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end users and
earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products. These firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. Some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality
of our products.  The competitive pressures described above may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions,
and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives. This may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">Our increasing focus on devices and services presents execution and competitive risks.    A growing part of our strategy involves cloud-based services used with smart client devices. Our
competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and in some cases the
user’s choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our own competing cloud-based software plus services strategies. While we believe our expertise, investments in
infrastructure, and the breadth of our cloud-based services provide us with a strong foundation to compete, it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to be successful. In addition to software
development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. These costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. Whether we are successful in this new business model
depends on our execution in a number of areas, including:   


 
•
 
 continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; 
 


 
•
 
 maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones,
tablets, and television-related devices;   


 
•
 
 continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers; and 
 


 
•
 
 ensuring that our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data.
 We make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. We will continue
to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, the Microsoft Office system, Bing, Windows Phone, Windows Server, the Windows Store,
the Windows Azure Services platform, Office 365, other cloud-based services offerings, and the Xbox 360 entertainment platform. We will also continue to invest in new software and hardware products, services, and technologies, such as the Surface
line of Microsoft-designed and manufactured devices announced in June 2012. Investments in new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and
marketing. If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. We may not achieve
significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be
as high as the margins we have experienced historically. 
   15 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   
 In fall 2012, we are launching Windows 8, a major new release of our PC operating system that
seeks to deliver a unique user experience through well-integrated software, hardware, and services. Its success depends on a number of factors including the extent to which customers embrace its new user interface and functionality, successfully
coordinating with our OEM partners in releasing a variety of hardware devices that take advantage of its features, and attracting developers at scale to ensure a competitive array of quality applications. We expect to incur substantial marketing
costs in launching Window 8 and associated services and devices, which may reduce our operating margins.  We may not be able to
adequately protect our intellectual property rights.    Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of software and other intellectual property is difficult. While piracy
adversely affects U.S. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the U.S. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. As a result, our revenue in these markets may grow slower than
the underlying PC market. Similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, we actively educate consumers about the benefits of licensing genuine products
and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may
fail to enhance revenue. Reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. 
Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights.    From time to time, we receive notices from
others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid
rate of issuance of new patents. To resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products, or pay damages to satisfy
indemnification commitments with our customers. These outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. In addition to money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and
selling our products that have infringing technologies. In some countries, such as Germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. We have made and expect to continue making
significant expenditures to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. 
We may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source
code.    Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. Although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to a
number of licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. If an unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection
for that source code. This could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the
security risks described in the next paragraph.  Cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability
claims, or harm to our competitive position. Security of Microsoft’s information
technology.    Maintaining the security of computers and computer networks is paramount for us and our customers. Threats to information technology (“IT”) security can take a variety of forms. Hackers develop and
deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and data centers. Groups of hackers may also act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service
attacks, or other coordinated attacks. Sophisticated organizations or individuals may launch targeted attacks using novel methods to gain access to computers running our software. These threats may result in breaches of our network or data security,
disruptions of our internal systems and business applications, impairment of our ability to provide services to our customers, product development delays, harm to our competitive position from the compromise of confidential business information, or
other negative impacts on our business. 
   16 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   
 In addition, our internal IT environment continues to evolve. Often we are early adopters of new
devices and technologies. We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. These practices can enhance efficiency and
business insight, but they also present risks that our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the speed of these changes.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">Security of our customers’ products and services.    Security threats are a particular challenge to companies like us whose business is technology products and services. The threats
to our own IT infrastructure also affect our customers. Customers using our cloud services rely on the security of our infrastructure to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. Hackers tend to focus their efforts on
the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect them to continue to do so. The security of our products and services is an important consideration in our customers’ purchasing decisions.
 We devote significant resources to defend against security threats, both to our internal IT systems and those of our customers. These
include:   


 
•
 
 engineering more secure products and services;   


 
•
 
 enhancing security and reliability features in our products and services, and continuously evaluating and updating those security and reliability features;
  


 
•
 
 improving the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities; 
 


 
•
 
 investing in mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed;
  


 
•
 
 protecting the digital security infrastructure that ensures the integrity of our products and services; 
 


 
•
 
 helping our customers make the best use of our products and services to protect against computer viruses and other attacks; and 
 


 
•
 
 providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such as firewalls and anti-virus software.
 The cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual or perceived security
vulnerabilities in our products and services could cause significant reputational harm and lead some customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products. Customers may also increase
their expenditures on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. Any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. Actual or perceived vulnerabilities
may lead to claims against us. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. Legislative or regulatory
action may increase the costs to develop or implement our products and services.  Improper disclosure of personal data could result
in liability and harm our reputation.    As we continue to execute our strategy of increasing the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable
information of our customers. At the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. This environment demands that we continuously improve
our design and coordination of security controls across our business groups and geographies. Despite these efforts, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices
we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information that we or our vendors store and manage. Improper disclosure of this information could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us
to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on premise or, increasingly, in a cloud-based
environment we host. We believe consumers using our email, messaging, storage, sharing, and social networking services will increasingly want efficient, centralized methods of choosing their privacy preferences and controlling their data.
Perceptions that our products or services do not adequately protect the 
   17 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   
 
privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could constrain consumer and business adoption of our cloud-based solutions. 
We may experience outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations
infrastructure.    Our increasing user traffic and complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and
equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our websites and in our data centers, and to introduce new products and services and support existing services such as Bing, Exchange Online, Office
365, SharePoint Online, Skype, Xbox LIVE, Windows Azure, Windows Live, and Microsoft Office Web Apps. We also are growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third-party businesses to their end
customers. Maintaining and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user
experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial
condition.  We are subject to government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how we design and market our
products.    As a leading global software maker, we receive close scrutiny from government agencies under U.S. and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or
consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. For example, we have been involved in the following actions.  Lawsuits brought
by the U.S. Department of Justice, 18 states, and the District of Columbia in two separate actions were resolved through a Consent Decree that took effect in 2001 and a Final Judgment entered in 2002. These proceedings imposed various constraints on
our Windows operating system businesses. These constraints included limits on certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure of certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers to limit the visibility of
certain Windows features in new PCs. Although the Consent Decree and Final Judgment expired in May 2011, we expect that federal and state antitrust authorities will continue to closely scrutinize our business. 
The European Commission closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume Microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used
in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. In 2004, the Commission ordered us to create new versions of Windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our
competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols in their own products. In 2009, the Commission accepted a set of commitments offered by Microsoft to address the Commission’s concerns
relating to competition in Web browsing software. The Commission’s impact on product design may limit our ability to innovate in Windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the Windows platform, and increase our
product development costs. The availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our own products which could result in decreased sales of
our products.  Government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of
our software to consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. New actions could be initiated at any time, either by these or other governments or private claimants, including with
respect to new versions of Windows or other Microsoft products. The outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: 
 


 
•
 
 We may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products
to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. 
 


 
•
 
 We may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our
associated intellectual property.   


 
•
 
 The rulings described above may be used as precedent in other competition law proceedings. 
   18 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   



 
•
 
 We are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments as a result of court or administrative orders, consent decrees or other voluntary actions we have taken. If
we fail to comply with these commitments we may incur litigation costs and be subject to fines or other remedial actions. For example, in July 2012 we announced that, for some PCs sold in Europe, we were not in compliance with our 2009 agreement to
display a “Browser Choice Screen” on Windows PCs where Internet Explorer is the default browser.  Our
products and online services offerings, including new technologies we develop or acquire such as Skype, are subject to government regulation in some jurisdictions, including in areas of user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online
content. The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Additionally these laws and governments’ approach to their
enforcement, as well as our products and services, are continuing to evolve. Compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance
could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we stop the alleged noncompliant activity.  Our business depends on our
ability to attract and retain talented employees.    Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely
competitive. We are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver
successful products and services may be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our
strategic planning and execution.  Delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our
revenue.    The development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Our increasing focus on
cloud-based software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. Significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. 
We make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable.    Our growth depends on our
ability to create new and higher value product and service offerings. We will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows PC operating
system, the Microsoft Office system, Bing, Windows Phone, Windows Server, the Windows Store, the Windows Azure Services platform, Office 365, other cloud-based services offerings, and the Xbox 360 entertainment platform. In June 2012, we announced
the Surface line of Microsoft-designed and manufactured devices. We will also continue to invest in new software and hardware products, services, and technologies. Investments in new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends on many
factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. Our degree of success with Windows Phone, for example, will impact our ability to grow our share of the smartphone operating system market. It will also
be an important factor in supporting our strategy of delivering value to end users seamlessly over a variety of form factors including PC, phone, and TV device classes. If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new
functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software products or upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all.
Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. 
Adverse economic conditions may harm our business.    Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation,
recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may result in lower information technology spending and adversely affect our revenue. If demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those
products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. Our product distribution system also relies on an extensive partner and retail network. Original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) building devices that run our software have also
been a significant means of distribution. The impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, OEM, or retailer, could result in sales channel disruption. Challenging economic conditions also may impair
the ability of our customers to pay for products and 
   19 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   
 
services they have purchased. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and
maturities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that have affected global financial markets. A significant part of our investment portfolio consists
of U.S. government securities. If global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of U.S. government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that more of
our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes.    We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may
result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Although management currently believes resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a
material adverse impact on our financial statements, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. A material adverse impact on our financial statements
also could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable.  We
may have additional tax liabilities.    We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary
course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We regularly are under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of
tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for
which that determination is made.  We earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the U.S., and any repatriation of
funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the U.S. may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. In addition, there have been proposals to change U.S. tax laws that would significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations
are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. 
Our hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems.    Our vertically-integrated hardware
products such as the Xbox 360 console, Surface devices, and other hardware devices we design and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and
reputational harm if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. We obtain some components of our hardware devices from sole suppliers. Our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their
demand for hardware components can affect the amount of capacity available to us. If a component delivery from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable or industry shortages occur, we may be unable to obtain timely replacement
supplies, resulting in reduced sales. Either component shortages or excess or obsolete inventory may increase our cost of revenue. Xbox 360 consoles are assembled in Asia; disruptions in the supply chain may result in console shortages that would
affect our revenue and operating margins. These same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">Our stand-alone software products may also experience quality or reliability problems. The highly sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended
operation. Any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could result in reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. Although
our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.    We acquire other companies and may not realize all the
economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), we review our amortizable intangible assets for
impairment when 
   20 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1A   
 
events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances,
indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We
may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. For example, in July
2012, we announced a $6.2 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill in our Online Services Division business segment.  We operate
a global business that exposes us to additional risks.    We operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require
that we reduce the sales price of our software in the U.S. and other countries. Operations outside the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment,
including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. Emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. The developing nature of these markets
presents a number of risks. Deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, such as current uncertainties relating to European sovereign and other debt, and difficulties in staffing and managing
foreign operations, may also adversely affect our operations or financial results. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may
adversely affect our net revenue.  Catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our
business.    A disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing
services, or performing other mission-critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in the Seattle, Washington area, and
we have other business operations in the Silicon Valley area of California, both of which are near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology
systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. Our move toward providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity
management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may
increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may result in supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either of which may
adversely affect our revenue. The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy in general or the information technology industry in particular are unclear. Environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources
of energy may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. Changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop
software and provide cloud-based services. New regulations may require us to find alternative compliant and cost-effective methods of distributing our products and services.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="2">Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business.    We expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures and strategic
alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment,
or that we experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of management’s attention from our other businesses. Our recent acquisition of Skype, for example, provides opportunities to enhance our
existing products. The success of our integration of Skype will depend in part on our ability to provide compelling experiences that distinguish us from our competitors in both consumer and business markets. It may take longer than expected to
realize the full benefits from these transactions, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or market share, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized. These events could harm our operating results
or financial condition. 
   21 




Table of Contents




  

 PART I  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:ARIAL" SIZE="1">Item 1B