: Risk Factors” of this document.Financial Information About Segments    6The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 12, “Information by Segment and Geographic Region,” of Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this document.Available InformationWe make available free of charge through our website, www.motorolasolutions.com/investors, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents:•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines•Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board of Directors•Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola Solutions employees, including the principal executive officers, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer)•Audit Committee Charter•Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter•Governance and Nominating Committee CharterAll of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E-mail: investors@motorolasolutions.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Definitive Proxy Statement may also be requested in hardcopy by clicking on “Printed Materials” at www.motorolasolutions.com/investors. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.7Item 1A: Risk FactorsWe wish to caution the reader that the following important risk factors, and those risk factors described elsewhere in this report or in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere. These risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence.We continue to face a number of risks related to current global economic conditions, including adverse credit conditions, low economic growth, risk of sovereign defaults and high levels of unemployment, and political conditions that have and could continue to unfavorably impact our business. Global economic conditions continue to be challenging for government and enterprise communications markets, as many economies and financial markets remain in a recession resulting from a number of factors, including adverse credit conditions, low economic growth rates, risk of sovereign defaults, particularly in certain European countries, continuing high rates of unemployment and reduced corporate capital spending. Economic growth in the U.S. and many other countries has remained low and the length of time these adverse economic conditions may persist are unknown. In addition, conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere have created many economic and political uncertainties that have impacted worldwide markets.  These global economic and political conditions have impacted and could continue to impact our business in a number of ways, including: •Budgeting and Forecasting are Difficult:  It is difficult to estimate changes in various parts of the U.S. and world economy, including the markets in which we participate. Components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures difficult.•Potential Deferment or Cancellation of Purchases and Orders by Customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause, and in some cases has caused businesses and in some cases governments to defer or cancel purchases in response to tighter credit and decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. If future demand for our products declines due to global economic conditions, it will negatively impact our financial results. •Customers' Inability to Obtain Financing to Make Purchases from Motorola Solutions and/or Maintain Their Business: Some of our customers require substantial financing, including public financing or government grants, in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit or other funds to finance purchases of our products and/or meet their payment obligations to us could have, and in some cases has had, a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, if global economic conditions result in insolvencies for our customers, it will negatively impact our financial results. •Requests by Customers for Vendor Financing by Motorola Solutions: Certain of our customers, particularly, but not limited to, those who purchase large infrastructure systems, request that their suppliers provide financing in connection with equipment purchases or the provision of managed services. In response to reduced tax revenue at the state and local government level and ongoing tightening of credit for certain enterprise customers, these types of requests have increased in volume and scope. Motorola Solutions through its Government segment and in connection with its global solutions and services offering, has continued to provide customer financing in light of these requests. We have been faced with and expect to continue to be faced with choosing between further increasing our level of vendor financing or potentially losing sales to these customers, as some of our competitors, particularly those in Asia, have been more willing to provide vendor financing to customers around the world, particularly customers in Africa and Latin America. To the extent we are unable to sell these receivables on terms acceptable to us we will retain exposure to the credit quality of our customers who we finance. •Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Third-Party Dealers, Distributors and Retailers: We offer our products through a variety of third-party dealers, distributors and retailers. Some of these third-parties are smaller and more likely to be impacted by the significant decrease in available credit that resulted from the financial crisis that continues today. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for third party dealers, distributors or retailers and we are unable to successfully transition end-customers to purchase our products from other third parties or from us directly, it may cause, and in some cases has caused, a negative impact on our financial results. •Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Key Suppliers: Our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components, including software from our suppliers. Certain of these items are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain single-source or limited-source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies and negatively impact 8our financial results. In addition, credit constraints at single-source suppliers have resulted in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. •Risk of Financial Counterparty Failures Could Negatively Impact our Financial Position: A significant amount of our international business in 2012 was transacted in local currency.  We use derivative financial instruments to reduce our overall exposure to the effects of currency fluctuations on cash flows. We are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to these derivative financial instruments. Although the contracts are distributed among several leading financial institutions, all of whom presently have investment grade credit ratings, the default by one or more counterparties could have an adverse impact on our financial statements. •Returns on Pension and Retirement Plan Assets and Interest Rate Changes Could Affect Our Earnings and Cash Flow in Future Periods: We have large underfunded pension obligations, in part resulting from the fact that we retained almost all of the U.S. pension liabilities and a major portion of our non-U.S. pension liabilities following our divestitures, including the distribution of Motorola Mobility. The funding position of our pension plans is affected by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity and debt markets, and the interest rates used to calculate our pension obligations for funding and expense purposes. Minimum annual pension contributions are determined by government regulations and calculated based upon our pension funding status, interest rates, and other factors. If the financial markets perform poorly, we could be and have been required to make additional large contributions. The equity and debt markets can be volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can affect our contribution requirements. In volatile interest rate environments, the likelihood of material changes in the future minimum required contributions increases.We have direct and indirect exposure to European sovereign and non-sovereign debt, and to European markets and our revenues and cash flows are exposed to fluctuations in the euro. We have sizeable operations in Europe, which have been and will be impacted by the ongoing financial situation in Europe and the volatility of the euro.  We view our exposures to the euro as follows as of December 31, 2012:•Our cash and cash equivalents include approximately $360 million of euro denominated currency.•Our accounts receivables balance includes approximately $140 million of euro denominated receivables.•In 2012, approximately 10% of our total sales were euro denominated.•Company-sponsored defined benefit plans have no material exposure to euro sovereign debt, approximately $70 million exposure to euro corporate bonds, and approximately $325 million exposure to euro equity investments.A significant devaluation of, or movement away from, the use of the euro could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new products and technologies and our results can be impacted by the effectiveness of our significant investments in new products and technologies.The markets for certain of our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards.  In addition, new technologies and associated competitors are entering our markets at a faster pace than we have experienced in the past, including consumer grade products. New products are expensive to develop and bring to market. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of new products and upgrades of current products to comply with emerging industry standards and to address competing technological and product developments carried out by our competitors. The research and development of new, technologically-advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as well as the accurate anticipation of technology and market trends. Many of our products and systems are complex and we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products or technologies in the future. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not become widely accepted or are not commercially viable or involve compliance obligations with additional areas of regulatory requirements.Our results are subject to risks related to our significant investment in developing and introducing new products. These risks include among others: (i) difficulties and delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products; (ii) customer acceptance of products; (iii) the development of, approval of, and compliance with industry standards and regulatory requirements; (iv) the significant amount of resources we must devote to the development of new technologies; and (v) the ability to differentiate our products and compete with other companies in the same markets.We are exposed to risks under large, multi-year system and managed services contracts that may negatively impact our business.We enter into large, multi-year system and managed services contracts with large municipal, state, nation-wide government and enterprise customers. This exposes us to risks, including among others: (i) the technological risks, especially 9when the contracts involve new technology; (ii) financial risks, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long term contracts and the related impact on operating results; and (iii) political risk, especially related to the contracts with government customers. In addition, multi-year awards from governmental customers may often only receive partial funding initially and may typically be cancelable on short notice with limited penalties. The termination of funding for a government program could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability.The expansion of our business into managed services creates new competitors and new and increased areas of risk that we have not been exposed to in the past and that we may not be able to properly assess or mitigate against.In July 2011, we announced the formation of our global solutions and services organization. We plan to continue to expand our business by offering additional and expanded managed services for existing and new types of customers, such as designing, building, operating, managing and in some cases owning a public-safety system or other commercial system. The offering of managed services involves the integration of multiple services, multiple vendors and multiple technologies, requiring that we partner with other systems and services providers, often on multi-year projects. In some cases we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a partnership and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. From time to time such projects may require that we form a joint venture with our partners. Risks associated with expanding our managed services offerings include:•We may be unable to recognize revenue from the sale of equipment in connection with managed services contracts for a period of time, which may be several years. •We may be required to agree to specific performance metrics that meet the customer's requirement for network availability, reliability, maintenance and support and, in some cases, if these performance metrics are not met we may not be paid. •The managed services business is one characterized by large subcontracting arrangements and we may not be able to obtain adequate indemnities or other protections from our subcontractors to adequately mitigate our risk to our customers.•We are facing increasing competition from traditional system integrators and the defense industry as system contracts become larger and more complicated.  •Expansion will bring us into contact with new regulatory requirements and restrictions with which we will have to comply and  may increase the costs and delay or limit the range of new services which we will be able to offer. A portion of our business is dependent upon U.S. government contracts and grants, which are highly regulated and subject to oversight audits by U.S. government representatives and subject to cancellations. Such audits could result in adverse findings and negatively impact our business. Our government business is subject to specific procurement regulations with numerous compliance requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. government contracting, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs may increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time, and the inability to receive future grants. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs, foreign corruption and the False Claims Act. Generally, U.S. government contracts and grants are subject to oversight audits by U.S. government representatives. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contracts or grants. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract or grant may not be allowed, and such costs already reimbursed may have to be refunded. Future audits and adjustments, if required, may materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit findings could also result in investigations, termination of a contract or grant, forfeiture of profits or reimbursements, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. All contracts with the U.S. government are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the U.S. government.In addition, contacts with government officials and participation in political activities are areas that are tightly controlled by federal, state and local laws. Failure to comply with these laws could cost us opportunities to seek certain government sales opportunities or even result in fines, prosecution, or debarment. We derive a portion of our revenue from government customers who award business through competitive bidding which can involve significant upfront costs and risks. This effort may not result in awards of business or we may fail to accurately estimate the costs to fulfill contracts awarded to us, which could have adverse consequences on our future profitability. Many government customers, including most U.S. government customers, award business through a competitive bidding process, which results in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. The competitive bidding process involves 10significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids for contracts that may not be awarded to us. Even if we are awarded contracts, we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill a contract, which could negatively impact the profitability of any contract award to us. In addition, following a contract award, we have experienced and may continue to experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of customer delay or our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding.We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event we fail to properly estimate our costs.We enter into a number of firm fixed-price contracts.  If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications, require us to engage subcontractors and can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our subcontractors or suppliers and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us and have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates could have a adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts.Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the growth of public safety broadband systems or reduce barriers to entry for new competitors. Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services and specifically to public safety users. The growth of public safety broadband communications systems may be affected: (i) by regulations relating to the access to allocated spectrum for public safety users, (ii) if adequate frequencies are not allocated, or (iii) if new technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated for such use. Industry growth may also be affected by new licensing fees required to use frequencies. The U.S. leads the world in allocating spectrum to enable wireless communications such as wireless local area network systems, such as WiFi, mesh technologies and wide area network systems, such as WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also allocated spectrum to allow deployment of these and other technologies. This changing landscape may introduce new competition and new opportunities for us.The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (the “Legislation”) authorized an additional ten MHz of broadband spectrum for public safety use (the “D-block”) for a total of 20 MHz of contiguous broadband spectrum for public safety.  In addition, public safety retained 14 MHz of the 700 MHz narrowband spectrum, subject to the FCC's authority to determine whether such spectrum should be authorized for future broadband use.  The Legislation further provides for the establishment of a centralized governance model through an independent authority within NTIA designated as the “First Responder Network Authority” or “FirstNet” but allows for states to opt out of the plan to develop a nationwide public safety network and perform their own competitive procurements if certain criteria are met.  States that opt out would still be eligible for funding and would also be allowed to generate revenue through leases to secondary users.Although the Legislation has been enacted, the implementation of a nationwide public safety network under FirstNet could be delayed or reduced significantly in scope due to: (i) complexities in the acquisition of a nationwide network, which involves regulatory requirements, (ii) writing of the specifications and statement of work, (iii) decision making on the system architecture or (iv) potential political opposition from certain states.  Any such delays or changes in scope of the FirstNet initiative could negatively impact our ability to further develop and expand our public safety LTE business.  For example, FirstNet may define specifications for the nationwide network which make it impossible or impractical for commercial LTE infrastructure and equipment vendors to compete for contracts to build out the network.  Furthermore, states may seek alternative means to deploy public safety LTE networks if a centralized architecture inhibits states' ability to operationally control its first responder agencies. Our employees, customers, suppliers and outsource partners are located throughout the world and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are not global may not face. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world.  In 2012, more than 40% of our revenue was generated by customers outside the U.S. In addition, we have a number of manufacturing, research and development, administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S. and more than 50% of our employees are employed outside the U.S. Most of our suppliers' operations are outside the U.S. and most of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. Because we have sizeable sales and operations outside the U.S., including outsourcing and procurement arrangements outside of the U.S., we have more complexity in our operations and are exposed to a unique set of global risks that could negatively impact sales or profitability, including but not limited to: (i) import/export regulations, tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes, customs classifications and certifications, including but not limited to changes in classifications or errors or omissions related to such classifications and certifications; (ii) changes in U.S. and non-U.S. rules related to trade, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection; (iii) longer payment cycles; (iv) tax issues, such as tax law changes, variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared to the U.S., obligations under tax incentive 11agreements, difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and difficulties in securing local country approvals for cash repatriations; (v) currency fluctuations, particularly in the euro, the British pound, Chinese renminbi, Norwegian krone, Israeli shekel, and Japanese yen among others; (vi) foreign exchange regulations, which may limit our ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency; (vii) challenges in collecting accounts receivable; (viii) cultural and language differences; (ix) employment regulations and local labor conditions; (x) difficulties protecting intellectual property in foreign countries; (xi) instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; (xii) natural disasters; (xiii) public health issues or outbreaks; (xiv) changes in laws or regulations that negatively impact benefits being received by us or that require costly modifications in products sold or operations performed in such countries; and (xv)  litigation in foreign court systems and foreign administrative proceedings. Many of our products that are manufactured outside the U.S. are manufactured in Asia (primarily Malaysia and China) and Latin America (primarily Mexico). If manufacturing in these regions is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted. We have engineering resources in Israel that could be disrupted as a result of hostilities in that country. We also sell our products and services throughout the Middle East and demand for our products and services could be negatively impacted by political conflicts and hostilities in this region. The potential for future unrest, terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand for certain of our products.We also are subject to risks that our operations could be conducted by our employees, contractors, representatives or agents in ways that violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, or other similar anti-corruption laws. While we have policies and procedures to comply with these laws, our employees, contractors, representatives and agents may take actions that violate our policies. Any such violations could have a negative impact on our business. Moreover, we face additional risks that our anti-corruption policies and procedures may be violated by third-party sales representatives or other third-parties that help sell our products or provide other services, because such representatives or agents are not our employees and it may be more difficult to oversee their conduct.We may not continue to have access to the capital markets for financing on acceptable terms and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are downgraded.From time to time we access the capital markets to obtain financing. Our access to the capital markets and the availability of acceptable terms and conditions are impacted by many factors, including: (i) our credit ratings, (ii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets, and (iii) the current state of the economy. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us.We are rated investment grade by all three national rating agencies. Any downward changes by the rating agencies to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. Under certain circumstances, if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, an increase in the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility could result. In addition, a downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our ability to: access the debt markets; provide performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and surety bonds; hedge foreign exchange risk; fund our foreign affiliates; and sell receivables. A downgrade in our credit rating could also result in less favorable trade terms with suppliers. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing. Any future disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets may result in higher funding costs for us and adversely affect our ability to access funds and other credit related products.  In addition, we may avoid taking actions that would otherwise benefit us, such as engaging in certain acquisitions, that would negatively impact our credit rating.Changes in our effective tax rate may have a negative impact on future operating results.We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may be negatively impacted by: (i) changes in the mix of earnings taxable in jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, (ii) changes in tax laws and accounting principles, (iii) changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, (iv) failure to meet commitments under tax incentive agreements, (v) discovery of new information during the course of tax return preparation, (vi) increases in nondeductible expenses, or (vii) difficulties in repatriating cash held abroad in a tax-efficient manner.Tax audits may also negatively impact our effective tax rate. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns, and tax authorities may disagree with our tax positions and assess additional tax. We regularly evaluate the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have a negative impact on future operating results.If the quality of our products does not meet our customers' expectations or regulatory or industry standards, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted.12Some of the products we sell may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, we discover quality issues in the products after they have been shipped to our customers, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least disruptive to our customers. Such pre-shipment and post-shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including: (i) delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, (ii) customer-imposed penalties on us for failure to meet contractual requirements, (iii) increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and (iv) a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation.In some cases, if the quality issue affects the product's safety or regulatory compliance, then such a “defective” product may need to be “stop-shipped” or recalled. Depending on the nature of the defect and the number of products in the field, it could cause us to incur substantial recall costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential loss of future orders and the damage to our goodwill or brand reputation. In addition, we may be required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for failed performance that might exceed the revenue that we receive from the contracts. Recalls involving regulatory non-compliance could also result in fines and additional costs. Finally, recalls could result in third-party litigation by persons or companies alleging harm or economic damage as a result or the use of the products.Many of our components and products, including software, are designed, developed or manufactured by third-parties and if such third-parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third-parties, it may have a negative impact on our business.We rely on third-parties to design, develop or manufacture many of our components and finished products, as well as software. We could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline if (i) we are not able to engage such third-parties with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, (ii) such third-parties lack sufficient quality control and fail to deliver quality components or products on time and at reasonable prices or deliver products that do not meet regulatory or industry standards or requirements, or (iii) if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third-parties.We utilize the services of subcontractors to perform under many of our contracts and the inability of our subcontractors to perform could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.We engage subcontractors on many of our contracts and as we expand our global solutions and services organization our use of subcontractors has and will continue to increase. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor. We are not always successful in passing down customer requirements to our subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from our customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from our subcontractor.  Our subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and regulatory compliance issues and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Failure of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices could negatively impact our business.It is our policy to require our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (“TPSRs”) to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to a third-party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations.We rely on third-party dealers, distributors, and retailers to sell certain of our products.In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party dealers, distributors and retailers. These third-parties may also market other products that compete with our products. Failure of one or more of our dealers, distributors or retailers to effectively promote our products could affect our ability to bring products to market and have a negative impact on our results of operations.Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components to meet the demands of our customers and any reduction or interruption in supplies or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our results of operations.13Our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. If demand for our products increases from our current expectations or if suppliers are unable to meet our demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters or financial issues, we could experience shortages. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future.Furthermore, certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, our current contractual arrangements with certain suppliers may be cancelled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford us with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these single source or limited source suppliers breach their contracts with us, our legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate us for any damages we may suffer.We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption, including as a result of third-party attacks, could have a negative impact on our operations, sales and operating results.We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within the Company and some of which are outsourced, including to India. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. As a provider of high technology emergency response systems, we face additional risk as a target of sophisticated attacks aimed at compromising our intellectual property and our customer information, referred to as advanced persistent threats. We implemented a number of significant business systems upgrades in 2012 and plan to implement a number of additional significant business systems upgrades in 2013 which, if defective or improperly installed or implemented may result in a business disruption.   In addition, we currently rely on a number of older legacy information systems that are harder to maintain.  A system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results.  We may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches.There has been a sharp increase in laws in Europe, the U.S. and elsewhere imposing requirements for the handling of personal data, including data of employees, consumers and business contacts. There is a risk that failures in systems designed to protect private, personal or proprietary data held by us will allow such data to be disclosed to or seen by others, resulting in application of regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations and/or private litigation by parties whose data were improperly disclosed.  There is also a risk that our Company (directly or as the result of some third-party service provider we use) could be found to have failed to comply with the laws or regulations of some country regarding the collection, consent, handling, transfer, or disposal of such personal data, and therefore subject the Company to fines or other sanctions, as well as adverse reputational impact.We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights.Our business will be harmed if: (i) we, our customers and/or our suppliers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third-parties, (ii) the intellectual property indemnities in our supplier agreements are inadequate to cover damages and losses due to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by supplier products, (iii) we are required to provide broad intellectual property indemnities to our customers, (iv) our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect against threats of misappropriation from internal or external sources or otherwise inadequate to protect our proprietary rights, or (v) our competitors negotiate significantly more favorable terms for licensed intellectual property. We may be harmed if we are forced to make publicly available, under the relevant open-source licenses, certain internally developed software-related intellectual property as a result of either our use of open-source software code or the use of third-party software that contains open-source code.Since our products are comprised of complex technology, much of which we acquire from suppliers through the purchase of components or licensing of software, we are often involved in or impacted by assertions, including both requests for licenses and litigation, regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third-parties have asserted, and in the future may assert, intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our customers and suppliers. These assertions against us, and our customers and suppliers have been increasing as the complexity of our products has increased. Many of these assertions are brought by non-practicing entities whose principle business model is to secure patent licensing-based revenue from product manufacturing companies. The patent holders often make broad and sweeping claims regarding the applicability of their patents to our products, seeking a percentage of sales as licenses fees, seeking injunctions to pressure us into taking a license, or a combination thereof. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Increasingly, third-parties have sought broad injunctive relief which could limit our ability to sell our products in the U.S. or elsewhere with intellectual property subject to the claims. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing products or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation, each of which could have a negative impact on our financial results. However, we cannot 14be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain products if we or our customer or supplier are subject to a final injunction.We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property indemnities with our suppliers for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our negotiations or that a supplier's indemnity will cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers due to the infringing products or that a supplier will choose to accept a license or modify or replace its products with non-infringing products which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, we may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a supplier and may not be able to influence any ultimate resolution or outcome that may negatively impact our sales if a court enters an injunction that enjoins the supplier's products or if the International Trade Commission issues an exclusionary order that blocks our products from importation into the U.S. Intellectual property disputes involving our suppliers have resulted in our involvement in International Trade Commission proceedings from time to time. These proceedings are costly and entail the risk that we will be subjected to a ban on the importation of our products into the U.S. solely as a result of our use of a supplier's components.In addition, our customers increasingly demand that we indemnify them broadly from all damages and losses resulting from intellectual property litigation against them.  These demands stem from the increasing trend of the non-practicing entities that engage in patent enforcement and litigation targeting the end users of our products.  End users are targeted so the non-practicing entities can seek royalties and litigation judgments in proportion to the value of the use of our products, rather than in proportion to the cost of our products.  Such demands can amount to many times the selling price of our products.Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important competitive tools and may generate income under license agreements. We regard our intellectual property as proprietary and attempt to protect it with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other methods. We also generally restrict access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third-party to obtain and use our proprietary information or develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third-parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our financial results.As we expand our business, including through acquisitions, and compete with new competitors in new markets, the breadth and strength of our intellectual property portfolio in those new areas may not be as developed as in our longer-standing businesses. This may expose us to a heightened risk of litigation and other challenges from competitors in these new markets. Further, competitors may be able to negotiate significantly more favorable terms for licensed intellectual property than we are able to, which puts them at a competitive advantage. As our products become more like commercial products, through the adoption of industry-standard technologies, for instance, our intellectual property-related risks may increase.We no longer own certain logos and other trademarks, trade names and service marks, including MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M logo and all derivatives and formatives thereof (“Motorola Marks”) and we license the Motorola Marks from Motorola Mobility, which is currently owned by Google. Our joint use of the Motorola Marks could result in product and market confusion and negatively impact our ability to expand our business under the Motorola brand. In addition, if we do not comply with the terms of the license agreement we could lose our rights to the Motorola Marks.  A further change of control of or bankruptcy of Motorola Mobility could result in an incompatible third-party owning the Motorola Marks.We have a worldwide, perpetual and royalty-free license from Motorola Mobility to use the Motorola Marks as part of our corporate name and in connection with the manufacture, sale, and marketing of our current products and services. The license of the Motorola Marks is important to us because of the reputation of the Motorola brand for our products and services. There are risks associated with both Motorola Mobility and the Company using the Motorola Marks and with this loss of ownership. As both Motorola Mobility and the Company will be using the Motorola Marks, confusion could arise in the market, including customer and investor confusion regarding the products offered by and the actions of the two companies. This risk could increase as both Motorola Mobility's and our products continue to converge. Also, any negative publicity associated with either company in the future could adversely affect the public image of the other. In addition because our license of the Motorola Marks will be limited to products and services within our specified fields of use, we will not be permitted to use the Motorola Marks in other fields of use without the approval of Motorola Mobility. In the event that we desire to expand our business into any other fields of use, we may need to do so with a brand other than Motorola. Developing a brand as well-known and with as much brand equity as Motorola could take considerable time and expense. The risk of needing to develop a second brand increases as Motorola Mobility's and our products continue to converge and as our business expands into other fields of use. In addition, we could lose our rights to use the Motorola Marks if we do not comply with the terms of the license agreement. Such a loss could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, Motorola Mobility has the right to license the brand to third-parties and either Motorola Mobility or licensed third parties may use the brand in ways that make the brand less attractive for customers of Motorola Solutions, creating increased risk that Motorola Solutions may 15need to develop an alternate or additional brand. Motorola Mobility was acquired by Google in May 2012, which results in Google having effective control over the Motorola Marks.In the event either Motorola Mobility or Google is acquired, the acquiring entity would gain control of the Motorola Marks.  In addition, neither Motorola Mobility nor Google are prohibited from selling the Motorola Marks.  In the event of a liquidation of Motorola Mobility or the then owner of the Motorola Marks, it is possible that a bankruptcy court would permit the Motorola Marks to be assigned to a third-party. While our right to use the Motorola Marks under our license should continue in our specified field of use in such situations, it is possible that we could be party to a license arrangement with a third-party whose interests are incompatible with ours, thereby potentially making the license arrangement difficult to administer, and increasing the costs and risks associated with sharing the Motorola Marks. In addition, there is a risk that, in the event of a bankruptcy of Motorola Mobility or the then owner of the Motorola Marks, Motorola Mobility, the then owner or its bankruptcy trustee may attempt to reject the license, or a bankruptcy court may refuse to uphold the license or certain of its terms. Such a loss could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions.In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities or to meet other strategic needs such as product or technology gaps, we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties, such as the acquisition of Psion PLC. These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (ii) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (iii) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (iv) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; (v) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations; (vi) the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (vii) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; (viii) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (ix) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business.  In particular, failure to achieve targeted cost and revenue synergies could negatively impact our business performance.Certain acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate may carry higher relative valuations (based on earnings multiples) than we do. This is particularly evident in software and services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher valuation than Motorola Solutions may be dilutive to our earnings, especially if the acquired business has little or no revenue. In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly dilutive to near-term earnings.Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection with a transaction in the form of change-in-control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity-based compensation rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may offer additional retention incentives, but it may still be difficult to retain certain key employees.We have completed a number of large divestitures over the last several years and have ongoing potential liability associated with those transactions and the businesses we divested. We may complete future divestitures with similar risks.Over the last several years we have spun-off or sold a number of businesses, including Motorola Mobility and our Networks business and we may divest other businesses in the future. In connection with many of our divestitures we remain liable for certain pre-closing liabilities associated with the divested business, such as pension liabilities, taxes, environmental liabilities and litigation. In certain situations, such as our spin-off transactions, we may retain risk for pre-closing liabilities in the event of a liquidation or bankruptcy of the company we spun off, even if they assumed certain liabilities because they were incurred when they were part of the Company and a third-party may not have consented to the assumption. In addition, although we often assign contracts associated with the divested business to a buyer in a divestiture, often that assignment will be subject to the consent of the contractual counterparty, which may not be obtained or may be conditioned, resulting in the company remaining liable under the contract. In addition, in most of our divestitures we make representations and warranties and agree to covenants relating to the business divested. We remain liable for a period of time for breaches of representations, warranties and covenants and we also indemnify buyers in the event of such breaches and for other specific risks.  Even though we establish reserves for any expected ongoing liability associated with divested businesses, those reserves may not be sufficient if unexpected liabilities arise and this could negatively impact our financial condition and future results of operations.As part of our transformation efforts over the last several years we have outsourced portions of certain business operations like IT, manufacturing, repair and distribution and may outsource additional business operations which limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners.As we outsource more of our business operations we are not able to directly control these activities.  Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of service, cost reductions or other metrics.  In some cases their actions may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or 16regulations like import or export regulations.  As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity increases our global risks.  In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners.  Once a business activity is outsourced we may be contractually prohibited from or may not practically be able to bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner.  The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our financial results.We may be required to record additional goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charges, which could result in an additional significant charge to earnings.Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. No goodwill or long-lived assets impairment charges were recorded during 2012, 2011 or 2010. Declines in our stock price or reductions in our future cash flow estimates and future operating results may require us to record significant additional goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charges in our financial statements in future periods, which could negatively impact our financial results.Changes in our operations or sales outside the U.S. markets could result in lost benefits in impacted countries and increase our cost of doing business.We have entered into various agreements with non-U.S. governments, agencies or similar organizations under which we receive certain benefits relating to its operations and/or sales in the jurisdiction. If our circumstances change, and operations or sales are not at levels originally anticipated, we may be at risk of having to reimburse benefits already granted, and losing some or all of these benefits and increasing our cost of doing business.Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, retain and prepare succession plans for senior management and key employees.The performance of our CEO, senior management and other key employees is critical to our success. If we are unable to retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key employees or attract them when needed, it could negatively impact us. We rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace and competition for management with experience in the communications industry is intense. A loss of the CEO, a member of senior management or key employee particularly to a competitor could also place us at a competitive disadvantage. Further, if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our CEO, senior management and other key employees, the Company could be negatively impacted.It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of engineers and other highly-skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive.Competition for key technical personnel in high-technology industries is intense. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly-skilled personnel needed to develop successful new products. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and utilizing these highly-skilled personnel.The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation, arbitration or administrative action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. From time to time we are made a party to litigation, arbitration or administrative actions. Our financial results and reputation could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceedings.  In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation or administrative proceedings and these costs could negatively impact our financial results.It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance or we exhaust our coverage we are forced to retain the risk.We have many types of insurance coverage and are also self-insured for some risks and obligations. While the cost and availability of most insurance is stable, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain difficult to obtain. For example, we recently purchased professional liability insurance, which is expensive to obtain for the amount of coverage often requested by certain customers.  As we grow our global solutions and services organization we are being asked to obtain higher amounts of professional liability insurance, which could result in higher costs to do business. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims, professional liability and public liability are potential self-insured events that could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident or claim.17We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws.Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws. Compliance with such existing or future laws could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products and services we can offer, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to certain substances. For example, in the United States, laws often require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault and often times in response to action or omissions that were legal at the time they occurred. We continue to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Changes to environmental laws or our discovery of additional obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on our financial performance.Laws focused on: the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries and other aspects are also proliferating. There are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether we can offer certain products, solutions and services, on product costs, and on what capabilities and characteristics our products or services can or must include.These laws impact our products and negatively affect our ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate that we will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility.We may be unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components and parts that are verified free of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which could result in a shortage of such components and parts or reputational damages if we are unable to determine that our products are free of such minerals.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (“DRC”) and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict” minerals. The final rules implementing these requirements were released in August 2012.  The short implementation time frame may limit the pool of suppliers who can provide us verifiable DRC Conflict Free components and parts, and we are not certain that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities that meet the DRC Conflict Free determination as required by the rule to declare our products DRC Conflict Free. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, other stockholders and the activist community if we are required to publically state that we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the defined “conflict” metals used in our products.A large percentage of our cash and cash equivalents are held outside of the United States and we could be subject to repatriation delays and costs which could reduce our financial flexibility.A large percentage of our cash and cash equivalents is currently held outside the U.S., while many of our liabilities, such as our public debt, the majority of our pension liabilities and certain other cash payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, are payable in the U.S. While we regularly repatriate funds with minimal adverse financial impact, repatriation of some of the funds has been and could continue to be subject to delay for local country approvals and could have potential adverse tax consequences. As a result of having a lower amount of the cash and cash equivalents in the U.S., our financial flexibility may be reduced.In connection with the distribution of Motorola Mobility, Motorola Mobility indemnified us for certain liabilities and we indemnified Motorola Mobility for certain liabilities. This indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by Motorola Mobility and Motorola Mobility may be unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future. Pursuant to the Master Separation and Distribution Agreement and certain other agreements with Motorola Mobility, Motorola Mobility agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify Motorola Mobility for certain liabilities, in each case for uncapped amounts. Motorola Mobility was acquired by Google in May 2012. This indemnity obligation did not change as a result of the acquisition of Motorola Mobility by Google. There can be no assurance that the indemnity from Motorola Mobility will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Motorola Mobility will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations, even if it continues to be owned by Google. Third-parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Motorola Mobility has agreed to assume. Even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Motorola Mobility any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. In addition, indemnities that we may be required to provide Motorola Mobility are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business. Each of these risks could negatively affect our 18business, results of operations and financial condition. For more detailed information, see the Amended and Restated Master Separation and Distribution Agreement which was filed as an exhibit to our Form 10-Q for the third quarter 2010.We contributed a significant portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, to Motorola Mobility and we are unable to leverage these intellectual property rights as we did prior to the distribution of Motorola Mobility.We contributed approximately 17,200 granted patents and approximately 8,000 pending patent applications worldwide to Motorola Mobility in connection with the distribution. Although we have a perpetual, royalty free license to these patents and other intellectual property rights, we no longer own them. As a result we are unable to leverage these intellectual property rights for purposes of generating licensing revenue or entering into favorable licensing arrangements with third-parties. As a result we may incur increased license fees or litigation costs. Although we cannot predict the extent of such unanticipated costs, it is possible such costs could negatively impact our financial results.Item 1B