. Risk Factors.”Net sales in North America continued to comprise a significant portion of our business, accounting for 61%, 63% and 62%  of our consolidated net sales in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.Payment terms with our customers vary worldwide. Generally, contractual payment terms range from 30 to 45 days from the invoice date within North America and typically do not exceed 90 days from the invoice date in regions outside of North America.  A portion of our contracts include implementation milestones, such as delivery, installation and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to complete.  Invoicing the customer is dependent on completion of the milestones. We generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required for competitive reasons, we may provide long-term financing in connection with equipment purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the purchase price.Generally, our contracts do not include a right of return, other than for standard warranty provisions.  Due to customer purchasing patterns and the cyclical nature of the markets we serve, our sales tend to be somewhat higher in the fourth quarter.CompetitionThe markets in which we operate are highly competitive.  Key competitive factors include: performance, features, quality, availability, warranty, price, vendor financing, and availability of service, company reputation and financial strength, partner community, and relationships with customers.  Our strong reputation with customers and partners, trusted brand, technology leadership, breadth of portfolio, product performance and specialized support services position us well for success.We experience widespread competition from a growing number of existing and new competitors, including large system integrators and manufacturers of private and public wireless network equipment and devices. Traditional Land Mobile Radio competitors include: Harris, Airbus, Kenwood, Hytera, and Sepura.As demand for fully integrated voice, data, and broadband systems continue to grow, we may face additional competition from public telecommunications carriers and telecommunications equipment providers. As we continue to evolve our Integration services and Managed services strategy we may work with other companies on a consortium or joint venture basis as customer’s delivery needs become more complex to fulfill.Several other competitive factors may have an impact on our future business including: evolving spectrum mandates by government regulators, evolving developments in the 700 MHz band in the U.S., increasing investment by broadband and IP solution providers, and new low-tier competitors.5Other InformationBacklogOur backlog for the Products and Services segments includes all product and service orders that have been received and are believed to be firm.  As of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 our backlog was as follows: December 31(In millions)2014 2013Products$1,194 $1,141Services4,582 4,314 $5,776 $5,455Approximately 58% of the Products backlog and 26% of the Services segment backlog is expected to be recognized as revenue during  2015. The forward-looking estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may cause the amount recognized to change.Research and DevelopmentWe continue to prioritize investments in R&D to expand and improve our portfolio of products through both new product introductions and continuous enhancements to our core products.  Our R&D programs are focused on the development of: (i) new public safety devices, infrastructure, and solutions, (ii) public safety broadband solutions based on the LTE technology, (iii) smart public safety applications that include voice, data, and video.R&D expenditures were $681 million in 2014, $761 million in 2013, and $790 million in 2012. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 5,000 employees engaged in R&D activities. In addition, we engage in R&D activities with joint development and manufacturing partners and outsource certain activities to engineering firms to further supplement our internal spend. Intellectual Property MattersPatent protection is important to our operations. We have a U.S. and international portfolio of patents relating to our products, systems and technologies, including research developments in radio frequency technology and circuits, wireless network technologies, over-the-air protocols, and mission critical two-way radio communications. We have filed patent applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as with foreign patent offices.We license some of our patents to third-parties, but licensing revenue is not significant. We are also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing fees vary from year-to-year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to licenses.  In addition, Motorola Solutions has a royalty free-license under all of the patents and patent applications assigned to Motorola Mobility at the time of the separation of the two businesses in 2011.We actively participate in the development of standards for interoperable, mission-critical digital two-way radio systems. Our patents are used in standards in which our products and services are based. We offer licenses to those patents on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.We believe that our patent portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas as well as provide leverage for the development of future technologies. Furthermore, we believe we are not dependent upon a single patent or a few patents. Our success depends more upon our extensive know-how, innovative culture, technical leadership and distribution channel. We do not rely primarily on patents or other intellectual property rights to protect or establish our market position; however, we will enforce our intellectual property rights in certain technologies when attempts to negotiate mutually agreeable licenses are not successful.We seek to obtain patents and trademarks to protect our proprietary position whenever possible and practical. As of December 31, 2014, we owned approximately 4,300 patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 1,200 U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. Foreign patents and patent applications are mostly counterparts of our U.S. patents. During 2014, we were granted approximately 450 patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries.  We no longer own certain logos and other trademarks, trade names and service marks, including MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M logo and all derivatives thereof (“Motorola Marks”) and we license the Motorola Marks from Motorola Mobility, which is currently owned by Lenovo.Inventory and Raw MaterialsOur practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory to meet customers’ delivery requirements in a manner consistent with industry standards. We provide custom products which require the stocking of inventories and a large variety of piece parts and replacement parts in order to meet delivery and warranty requirements. To the extent suppliers’ product life cycles are shorter than ours, stocking of lifetime buy inventories is required to meet long-term warranty and contractual requirements. In addition, replacement parts are stocked for delivery on customer demand within a short delivery cycle.Availability of required materials and components is generally dependable; however, fluctuations in supply and market demand could cause selective shortages and affect our results of operations. We currently procure certain materials and components from single-source vendors. A material disruption from a single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact 6on our results of operations. If certain single-source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact our financial results.Natural gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy for our manufacturing operations. Each of these resources is currently in adequate supply for our operations. The cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices, although given current oil spot rates, we are not expecting material cost savings. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to our manufacturing facilities. Difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned resources or a significant cost increase could affect our financial results.Environmental Quality and Regulatory MattersSome of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites, as well as relating to the protection of the environment. Certain of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products.  During 2014, compliance with these U.S. federal, state and local, and international laws did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.Radio spectrum is required to provide wireless voice, data and video communications service. The allocation of spectrum is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services and specifically to public safety users. In the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) regulate spectrum use by non-federal entities and federal entities, respectively. Similarly, countries around the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and implement the rules for use of radio spectrum, pursuant to their respective national laws and international coordination under the International Telecommunications Union (“ITU”). We manufacture and market products in spectrum bands already made available by regulatory bodies. These include voice and data infrastructure, mobile radios and portable, or hand-held devices. Consequently, our results could be positively or negatively affected by the rules and regulations adopted from time to time by the FCC, NTIA, ITU or regulatory agencies in other countries. Our products operate both on licensed and unlicensed spectrum. The availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities, and consequently, the loss of available radio spectrum may result in the loss of business opportunities. Regulatory changes in current spectrum bands may also provide opportunities or may require modifications to some of our products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed.As television transmission and reception technology transitions from analog to more efficient digital modes, various countries around the world are examining, and in some cases already pursuing, the redevelopment of portions of the television spectrum. In the U.S., spectrum historically used for broadcast television, known as the 700MHz band, has been redeveloped and deployed for new uses (the so-called “digital dividend” spectrum), including broadband and narrowband wireless communications.In the U.S., thirty-four MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band is now allocated to support public safety narrowband and broadband communications systems.  This includes 24 MHz of spectrum previously allocated by the FCC and an additional ten MHz of spectrum (the “D block”) allocated in February 2012 as part of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 in response to public safety requests for additional broadband spectrum.  The resulting law also identified up to $7 billion in funding for the nationwide public safety broadband network.  The law further provides for the establishment of a centralized governance model through an independent authority within NTIA designated as the “First-Responder Network Authority” or “FirstNet” to manage deployment and operation of the network.  Additional work, currently ongoing in FirstNet, is required to enable deployment of the nationwide public safety broadband network.  During 2013, FirstNet released multiple Requests for Information seeking information concerning this initiative. FirstNet is expected to issue a network Request for Proposal in the second half of 2015.  The law allows for states to opt out of the plan to develop a nationwide public safety network and perform their own competitive procurements if certain criteria are met. States that opt out would still be eligible for funding and would also be allowed to generate revenue through leases to secondary users.  FirstNet and the FCC have also enabled the early deployment of broadband systems in several areas so that field experience can be gained regarding the benefits of broadband communications for public safety operations. In September 2012, the State of Texas received a Special Temporary Authorization ("STA") for deployment of 14 broadband sites in the Harris County area around Houston. That authorization was extended through 2013 and they are currently in negotiations with FirstNet.  The State of Texas and Harris County, with assistance from Motorola Solutions, have deployed broadband equipment and applications and successfully demonstrated the benefits such systems can bring to FirstNet and other officials.  FirstNet also entered into a spectrum lease with the Los Angeles Regional Interoperable Communications System Authority ("LA-RICS") to allow for a radio system that will provide mission critical communications for the region’s more than 34,000 law enforcement, fire service and health service professionals and more than 80 public safety agencies. LA-RICS selected Motorola Solutions to develop this radio system.Although the law has been enacted, the implementation of a nationwide public safety network under FirstNet has been slow to progress and could be reduced significantly. For a discussion of risks related to the implementation of a nationwide public safety network, please refer to ": Risk Factors” of this document.Financial Information About Segments    The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 12, “Information by Segment and Geographic Region,” of Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this document.Available InformationWe make available free of charge through our website, www.motorolasolutions.com/investors, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents:•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation with Amendments•Conformed Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Motorola Solutions, Inc. (amended Jan. 4, 2011)•Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Motorola, Inc. (effective Jan. 4, 2011)•Certificate of Ownership and Merger of Motorola Name Change Corporation into Motorola, Inc. (effective Jan. 4, 2011)•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws•Board Governance Guidelines•Director Independence Guidelines•Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board of Directors•Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola Solutions employees, including the principal executive officers, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer)•Audit Committee Charter8•Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter•Governance and Nominating Committee CharterAll of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E-mail: investors@motorolasolutions.com. This annual report on Form 10-K and Definitive Proxy Statement are available on the Internet at www.motorolasolutions.com/investors and may also be requested in hardcopy by completing the on-line request form available on our website at www.motorolasolutions.com/investors. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Item 1A: Risk FactorsWe face a number of risks related to current global economic and political conditions, including low economic growth rates in certain markets, the impact of currency fluctuations, falling oil prices, and unstable political conditions that have and could continue to unfavorably impact our business.Global economic and political conditions continue to be challenging for many of our government and commercial markets, as economic growth in many countries, particularly in Europe and in emerging markets, has remained low, currency fluctuations have impacted profitability, credit markets have remained tight for certain of our counterparties and many of our customers remain dependent on government grants to fund purchases of our products and services. Falling global oil prices are also impacting government customers in oil-dependent economies, particularly in the Middle East, South America and Russia. In addition, conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere have created many economic and political uncertainties that continue to impact worldwide markets. The length of time these adverse economic and political conditions may persist is unknown. These global economic and political conditions have impacted and could continue to impact our business in a number of ways, including:•Requests by Customers for Vendor Financing by Motorola Solutions: Certain of our customers, particularly, but not limited to, those who purchase large infrastructure systems, request that their suppliers provide financing in connection with equipment purchases and/or the provision of solutions and services, particularly as the size and length of these types of contracts increases and as we increase our business in developing countries. Requests for vendor financing continue to increase in volume and scope, including in response to reduced tax revenue at the state and local government level and ongoing tightening of credit for certain commercial customers. Motorola Solutions has continued to provide vendor financing to both our government and commercial customers. We have been faced with and expect to continue to be faced with choosing between further increasing our level of vendor financing or potentially losing sales, as some of our competitors, particularly those in Asia, have been more willing to provide vendor financing to customers around the world, particularly customers in Africa and Latin America. To the extent we are unable to sell these receivables on terms acceptable to us we may retain exposure to the credit quality of our customers who we finance.•Customers' Inability to Obtain Financing to Make Purchases from Motorola Solutions and/or Maintain Their Business: Some of our customers require substantial financing, including public financing or government grants, in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit or other funds, including as a result of lower tax revenues, falling oil prices, currency fluctuations or unavailability of government grants, to finance purchases of our products and services and/or to meet their payment obligations to us could have, and in some cases has had, a negative impact on our financial results.  This risk increases as the size and length of our contracts increase.  In addition, if global economic conditions result in insolvencies for our customers, it will negatively impact our financial results.•Challenges in Budgeting and Forecasting: It is difficult to estimate changes in various parts of the U.S. and world economy, including the markets in which we participate. Components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of demand for our products and estimates of foreign exchange rates.  The prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures challenging.•Potential Deferment or Cancellation of Purchases and Orders by Customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause, and in some cases has caused, businesses and governments to defer or cancel purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and de-prioritization of communications equipment within the budgeting process. If future demand for our products declines due to economic conditions, it will negatively impact our financial results.•Inability to operate and grow in certain markets: We operate in a number of markets with a risk of intensifying political instability, including Russia, the Middle East and Africa. If political instability continues in these markets and in other parts of the world in which we operate it could have a significant impact on our ability to grow and operate in those locations, which will negatively impact our financial results.9A significant amount of our international business is transacted in local currency and a significant percentage of our cash and cash equivalents are held outside of the United States, which exposes us to risk relating to currency fluctuations, changes in foreign exchange regulations and repatriation delays and costs, which could negatively impact our sales, profitability and financial flexibility.We have sizable sales and operations in Canada and our Europe and Africa, Asia and Middle East, and Latin America regions. A significant amount of this business is transacted in local currency. As a result, our financial performance is impacted by currency fluctuations. We are also experiencing increased pressure to agree to established currency conversion rates and cost of living adjustments as a result of foreign currency fluctuations.A significant percentage of our cash and cash equivalents is currently held outside the U.S. and we continue to generate profits outside of the U.S., while many of our liabilities, such as our public debt, the majority of our pension liabilities and certain other cash payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, are payable in the U.S. While we have regularly repatriated funds with minimal adverse financial impact, repatriation of some of the funds has been and could continue to be subject to delay for local country approvals and could have potential adverse tax consequences. In addition, foreign exchange regulations may limit our ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency. As a result of having a lower amount of cash and cash equivalents in the U.S., our financial flexibility may be reduced.A portion of our business is dependent upon U.S. government contracts and grants, which are highly regulated and subject to oversight audits by U.S. government representatives and subject to cancellations. Such audits could result in adverse findings and negatively impact our business.Our U.S. government business is subject to specific procurement regulations with numerous compliance requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. government contracting, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs may increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time, and the inability to receive future grants. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws or policies, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of criminal justice data, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs, foreign corruption and the False Claims Act.Generally, U.S. government contracts and grants are subject to oversight audits by U.S. government representatives. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contracts or grants. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract or grant may not be allowed, and such costs already reimbursed may have to be refunded. Future audits and adjustments, if required, may materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit findings could also result in investigations, termination of a contract or grant, forfeiture of profits or reimbursements, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. All contracts with the U.S. government are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the U.S. government.In addition, contacts with government officials and participation in political activities are areas that are tightly controlled by federal, state, local and international laws. Failure to comply with these laws could cost us opportunities to seek certain government sales opportunities or even result in fines, prosecution, or debarment.Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the growth of public safety broadband systems or reduce barriers to entry for new competitors.Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services and specifically to public safety users. The growth of public safety broadband communications systems may be affected: (i) by regulations relating to the access to allocated spectrum for public safety users, (ii) if adequate frequencies are not allocated, or (iii) if new technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated for such use. Industry growth may also be affected by new licensing fees required to use frequencies.The U.S. leads the world in allocating spectrum to enable wireless communications including LTE. Other countries have also allocated spectrum to allow deployment of these and other technologies. This changing landscape may introduce new competition and new opportunities for us.The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (the “Legislation”) authorized an additional ten MHz of broadband spectrum for public safety use for a total of 20 MHz of broadband spectrum for public safety. In addition, public safety retained 14 MHz of the 700 MHz narrowband spectrum, subject to the FCC's authority to determine whether such spectrum should be authorized for future broadband use.  The Legislation further provides for the establishment of a centralized governance model through an independent authority within NTIA designated as the “First-Responder Network Authority” or “FirstNet” but allows for states to opt out of the plan to develop a nationwide public safety network and perform their own competitive procurements if certain criteria are met. States that opt out would still be eligible for funding and would also be allowed to generate revenue through leases to secondary users.Although the Legislation has been enacted, the implementation of a nationwide public safety network under FirstNet has been slow to progress and could be reduced significantly in scope due to: (i) complexities in the acquisition of a nationwide network, which involves regulatory requirements, (ii) writing of the specifications and statement of work, (iii) decision making on the system architecture or (iv) potential political opposition from certain states. Any such delays or changes in scope of the FirstNet initiative could negatively impact our ability to further develop and expand our public safety LTE business in the U.S. For 10example, FirstNet may define specifications for the nationwide network which make it impossible or impractical for commercial LTE infrastructure and equipment vendors to compete for contracts to build out the network. Furthermore, states may seek alternative means to deploy public safety LTE networks if a centralized architecture inhibits states' ability to operationally control its first-responder agencies.We derive a portion of our revenue from government customers who award business through competitive bidding which can involve significant upfront costs and risks. This effort may not result in awards of business or we may fail to accurately estimate the costs to fulfill contracts awarded to us, which could have adverse consequences on our future profitability.Many government customers, including most U.S. government customers, award business through a competitive bidding process, which results in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. The competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids for contracts that may not be awarded to us. Even if we are awarded contracts, we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill a contract, or to resolve problems with our subcontractors or suppliers, which could negatively impact the profitability of any contract award to us. In addition, following the award of a contract, we have experienced and may continue to experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of customer delay or our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding.We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event we fail to properly estimate our costs or hedge our risks associated with currency fluctuations.We enter into a number of firm fixed-price contracts. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. Because certain of these contracts involve new technologies and applications, require us to engage subcontractors and/or can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our subcontractors or suppliers and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us and have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates or currency fluctuations could have an adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts.We no longer own a number of our enterprise legacy information systems, including components of our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. We are planning to implement a new ERP system and we rely on complex and in some cases aging information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any system or network disruption could have a negative impact on our operations, sales and operating results.We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within the Company and some of which are outsourced.  In connection with the sale of our Enterprise business to Zebra Technologies Corporation (“Zebra”), we transferred ownership of a number of our enterprise legacy information systems including components of our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system to Zebra. We are currently in a transition services agreement to co-use these systems with Zebra until 2017 which limits our ability to make changes to these systems. We are planning to implement a new ERP system to replace pieces of the systems now owned by Zebra. If this implementation is delayed or introduces defective, or improperly installed or implemented computer code, it may result in a business disruption.   We also currently rely on a number of older legacy information systems that are harder to maintain and when we begin to implement our new ERP system we will have fewer resources to maintain these older legacy systems. A system failure could negatively impact our operations and financial results.  In addition, as we have outsourced more of our business operations we have increased our dependence on the IT systems of our outsourced business partners which are not under our direct management or control. Any disruption to either those outsourced systems or the communication links between Motorola Solutions and the outsourced supplier, may negatively impact our ability to manufacture, distribute, or repair products. We may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions.11A security breach or other significant disruption of our IT systems, those of our outsource partners, suppliers or those we manufacture, install, and in some cases operate and maintain for our customers, caused by cyber attack or other means, could have a negative impact on our operations, sales, and operating results. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage, unauthorized access or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to, cyber attack, cyber intrusion, computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, sabotage, war, and telecommunication failures. As a provider of mission-critical communications systems for customers in critical infrastructure sectors of the U.S. and globally, including systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers, we face additional risk as a target of sophisticated attacks aimed at compromising both our Company’s and our customers’ sensitive information and intellectual property, through means referred to as advanced persistent threats. This risk is heightened because these systems may contain sensitive governmental information or personally identifiable or other protected information. While we employ a number of countermeasures and security controls, including training and audits and utilization of commercial information security threat sharing networks to protect against such attacks, we have experienced a gradual and steady increase in the sophistication of these threats, most noticeably through well-crafted social engineering and phishing attempts. We cannot guarantee that all threat attempts will be successfully thwarted even with these countermeasures. Further, we are dependent, in certain instances, upon our outsourced business partners, suppliers, and customers to adequately protect our IT systems and those IT systems that we manage for our customers. In addition, some of our customers are exploring broadband solutions that use public carrier networks on which our solutions would operate. We do not have direct oversight or influence over how public carrier networks manage the security, quality, or resiliency of their networks, and because they are an attractive high value target due to their role in critical infrastructure, they expose customers’ to an elevated risk over our private networks. Our Company outsources certain business operations, including, but not limited to IT, HR information systems, manufacturing, repair, distribution and engineering services. These arrangements are governed by various contracts and agreements which reference and mandate Company and international standards of information protection, as appropriate. In addition, we maintain certain networked equipment at customer locations and are reliant on those customers to protect and maintain that equipment. The “attack surface” for us to protect against our adversaries is thus often extended to these partners and customers, as well as our suppliers, and we may be dependent upon their cyber security capabilities as well as their willingness to exchange threat and response information with us.A cyber attack or other significant disruption involving our IT systems or those of our outsource partners, suppliers or our customers could result in the unauthorized release of proprietary, confidential or sensitive information of ours or our customers. Such unauthorized access to, or release of, this information could: (i) allow others to unfairly compete with us, (ii) compromise safety or security, given the mission-critical nature of our customers’ systems, (iii) subject us to claims for breach of contract, and (iv) damage our reputation.  We could face regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations and/or private litigation by parties whose data is improperly disclosed or misused. In addition, there has been a sharp increase in laws in Europe, the U.S. and elsewhere, imposing requirements for the handling of personal data, including data of employees, consumers and business contacts. There is a risk that our Company, directly or as the result of some third-party service provider we use, could be found to have failed to comply with the laws or regulations of some country regarding the collection, consent, handling, transfer, retention or disposal of such personal data, and therefore subject us to fines or other sanctions. Any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow.Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software to meet the demands of our customers and any disruption to our suppliers or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our results of operations.Our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to timely obtain an adequate delivery of quality materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software from our suppliers. In addition, certain supplies, including for some of our critical components, are available only from a single source or limited sources and we may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. If demand for our products or services increases from our current expectations or if suppliers are unable to meet our demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters or financial issues, we could experience an interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies, including as a result of having to move to an alternative source, that could have a negative impact on our business as a result of increased cost or delay in or inability to deliver our products.  This risk may increase as a result of consolidation of certain of our suppliers. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future. In addition, credit constraints at our suppliers could cause us to accelerate payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow.We have seen and expect to continue to see increases in the price of certain supplies as we no longer qualify for certain volume discounts given our significant decrease in direct material spend over the last several years as a result of our spin-offs and divestitures. We have also experienced less support and focus from our suppliers as our spend has diminished, making it more difficult for us to resolve gaps in supply due to unforeseen changes in forecast and demand. In addition, our current contractual arrangements with certain suppliers may be cancelled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford us with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these suppliers breach their contracts with us, our legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate us for any damages we may suffer.12Our sales within a quarter are not linear, with a substantial percentage of products shipping in the final month of the quarter. This lack of linearity creates inefficiencies in our business performance and any interruption during this final month could have a substantial impact on our quarterly financial results.On average, a substantial percentage of our quarterly sales ship in the final month of a quarter. Any interruption in our ability to ship products during this final month, such as unavailability of critical components, disruption to our manufacturing capabilities or disruptions in our distribution channel, will have a disproportionately large impact on our quarterly financial results, as we may be unable to recover in time to ship the products and recognize revenue in that quarter.In addition, this lack of linearity results in inefficiencies in our financial performance, as we must invest in capacity and resources to support this business model, meaning we have underutilized operations during the first two months of the quarter. We also must maintain additional component inventory and engage in pre-builds of finished goods to mitigate the impact of this lack of linearity and meet potential last month demand. This could result in our carrying excess inventory, which is costly and may result in increased inventory obsolesce over time.We no longer own certain logos and other trademarks, trade names and service marks, including MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M logo and all derivatives and formatives thereof (“Motorola Marks”) and we license the Motorola Marks from Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC (“MTH”), which is currently owned by Motorola Mobility, a subsidiary of Lenovo. Our joint use of the Motorola Marks could result in product and market confusion and negatively impact our ability to expand our business under the Motorola brand. In addition, if we do not comply with the terms of the license agreement we could lose our rights to the Motorola Marks.  Because of the change of control of Motorola Mobility, which is now owned by Lenovo, we may find that an incompatible third-party owns the Motorola Marks.We have a worldwide, perpetual and royalty-free license from MTH to use the Motorola Marks as part of our corporate name and in connection with the manufacture, sale, and marketing of our current products and services. The license of the Motorola Marks is important to us because of the reputation of the Motorola brand for our products and services. There are risks associated with both Motorola Mobility and the Company using the Motorola Marks and with this loss of ownership. As both Motorola Mobility and the Company will be using the Motorola Marks, confusion could arise in the market, including customer confusion regarding the products offered by and the actions of the two companies. Motorola Mobility was acquired by Lenovo in 2014, which resulted in Lenovo having effective control over the Motorola Marks. This risk could increase as both Motorola Mobility's and our products continue to converge. This risk could increase under Lenovo's control if they expand their use of the Motorola Marks. Also, any negative publicity associated with either company in the future could adversely affect the public image of the other. In addition because our license of the Motorola Marks will be limited to products and services within our specified fields of use, we will not be permitted to use the Motorola Marks in other fields of use without the approval of Motorola Mobility, which is now controlled by Lenovo. In the event that we desire to expand our business into any other fields of use, we may need to do so with a brand other than the Motorola brand. Developing a brand as well-known and with as much brand equity as Motorola could take considerable time and expense. The risk of needing to develop a second brand increases as Motorola Mobility's and our products continue to converge and if our business expands into other fields of use. In addition, we could lose our rights to use the Motorola Marks if we do not comply with the terms of the license agreement. Such a loss could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, MTH has the right to license the brand to third-parties and either Motorola Mobility or licensed third-parties may use the brand in ways that make the brand less attractive for customers of Motorola Solutions, creating increased risk that Motorola Solutions may need to develop an alternate or additional brand. In 2013 Motorola Mobility modified certain Motorola Marks used by the Company. Motorola Mobility may require the Company to adopt the use of the modified Motorola Marks, which would result in the Company incurring the costs of rebranding.In addition, neither Motorola Mobility nor Lenovo are prohibited from selling the Motorola Marks. In the event of a liquidation of Motorola Mobility or the then owner of the Motorola Marks, it is possible that a bankruptcy court would permit the Motorola Marks to be assigned to a third-party. While our right to use the Motorola Marks under our license should continue in our specified field of use in such situations, it is possible that we could be party to a license arrangement with a third-party whose interests are incompatible with ours, thereby potentially making the license arrangement difficult to administer, and increasing the costs and risks associated with sharing the Motorola Marks. In addition, there is a risk that, in the event of a bankruptcy of Motorola Mobility or the then owner of the Motorola Marks, Motorola Mobility, the then owner or its bankruptcy trustee may attempt to reject the license, or a bankruptcy court may refuse to uphold the license or certain of its terms. Such a loss could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We transferred a significant portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, to Motorola Mobility and Zebra and we are unable to leverage these intellectual property rights as we did prior to the distribution of Motorola Mobility or the sale of our Enterprise business.We contributed approximately 17,200 granted patents and approximately 8,000 pending patent applications worldwide to Motorola Mobility in connection with the distribution. We also transferred approximately 2,700 granted patents and approximately 800 pending patent applications to Zebra in connection with the sale of the Enterprise business. Although we have a perpetual, royalty-free license to these patents and other intellectual property rights, we no longer own them. As a result we are unable to leverage these intellectual property rights for purposes of generating licensing revenue or entering into favorable licensing arrangements with third-parties. As a result we may incur increased license fees or litigation costs. Although we cannot predict the extent of such unanticipated costs, it is possible such costs could negatively impact our financial results.13Over the last several years we have outsourced portions of certain business operations like IT, HR information systems, manufacturing, repair, distribution and engineering services and expect to outsource additional business operations which limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners.As we outsource more of our business operations we are not able to directly control these activities. Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of quality, performance, service, cost reductions or other metrics.  Failure to meet key performance indicators may result in our being in default with our customers. In addition, we may rely on our outsource partners to secure materials from our suppliers with whom our outsource partners may not have existing relationships and we may be required to continue to manage these relationships even after we outsource certain business operations.  As we outsource business operations we become dependent on the IT systems of our outsource partners, including to transmit demand and purchase orders to suppliers, which can result in a delay in order placement. In addition, in an effort to reduce costs and limit their liabilities our outsource partners may not have robust systems or make commitments in as timely a manner as we require.    In some cases the actions of our outsource partners may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or regulations like import or export regulations.  As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity exposes us to information security vulnerabilities and increases our global risks.  In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners.  Once a business activity is outsourced we may be contractually prohibited from or may not practically be able to bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner. The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our financial results.We utilize the services of subcontractors to perform under many of our contracts and the inability of our subcontractors to perform in a timely and compliant manner could negatively impact our performance obligations as the prime contractor.We engage subcontractors, including third-party integrators on many of our contracts and as we expand our solutions and services business our use of subcontractors has and will continue to increase. Our subcontractors may further subcontract performance and may supply third-party products and software from a number of smaller companies. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor or its subcontractors and the functionality, warranty and indemnities of products, software and services supplied by our subcontractor. We are not always successful in passing down customer requirements to our subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from our customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from our subcontractor. Our subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, or secure preferred warranty and indemnity coverage from their suppliers which might result in greater product returns, service problems, warranty claims and costs and regulatory compliance issues and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Failure of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices and adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct or our Human Rights Policy could negatively impact our business.It is our policy to require our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (“TPSRs”) to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers, subcontractors, brokers, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to a third-party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations.Our employees, customers, suppliers and outsource partners are located throughout the world and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are not global may not face.Most of our products that are manufactured by us outside the U.S. are manufactured in Malaysia. If manufacturing in our facility in Malaysia is disrupted, our overall capacity would be significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted.Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world. In 2014, approximately 39 percent of our revenue was generated outside the U.S. In addition, we have a number of research and development, administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S. and more than 50% of our employees are employed outside the U.S. Most of our suppliers' operations are outside the U.S. and most of our products are manufactured outside the U.S., both internally and by third-parties.Because we have sizable sales and operations, including outsourcing and procurement arrangements, outside of the U.S., we have more complexity in our operations and are exposed to a unique set of global risks that could negatively impact sales or profitability, including but not limited to: (i) currency fluctuations, (ii) import/export regulations, tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes, customs classifications and certifications, including but not limited to changes in classifications or errors or omissions related to such classifications and certifications, (iii) changes in U.S. and non-U.S. rules related to trade, environmental, health 14and safety, technical standards, consumer and intellectual property and consumer protection, (iv) longer payment cycles, (v) tax issues, such as tax law changes, variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared to the U.S., obligations under tax incentive agreements, difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and difficulties in securing local country approvals for cash repatriations, (vi) changes in foreign exchange regulations, (vii) challenges in collecting accounts receivable, (viii) cultural and language differences, (ix) employment regulations and local labor conditions, (x) privacy and data protections regulations and restrictions, (xi) difficulties protecting intellectual property in foreign countries, (xii) instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts and terrorism, (xiii) natural disasters, (xiv) public health issues or outbreaks, (xv) changes in laws or regulations that negatively impact benefits being received by us or that require costly modifications in products sold or operations performed in such countries, and (xvi) litigation in foreign court systems and foreign administrative proceedings.We have a number of employees in, and sell our products and services throughout, the Middle East and our operations, as well as demand for our products and services, could be negatively impacted by political conflicts and hostilities in this region. The potential for future unrest, terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts, hostility against U.S.-based multinational companies and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand for certain of our products.We also are subject to risks that our operations could be conducted by our employees, contractors, representatives or agents in ways that violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, or other similar anti-corruption laws. While we have policies and procedures to comply with these laws, our employees, contractors, representatives and agents may take actions that violate our policies. Any such violations could have a negative impact on our business. Moreover, we face additional risks that our anti-corruption policies and procedures may be violated by TPSRs or other third-parties that help sell our products or provide other solutions and services, because such representatives or agents are not our employees it is more difficult to oversee their conduct.Many of our components and some of our products, including software, are developed and/or manufactured by third-parties and in some cases designed by third-parties and if such third-parties lack sufficient quality control, change the design of components or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third-parties, it may have a negative impact on our business.We rely on third-parties to develop and/or manufacture many of our components and some of our finished products, and to design certain components and finished products, as well as provide us with software necessary for the operation of those products and we may increase our reliance such third-parties in the future. We could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline if: (i) we are not able to engage such third-parties with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, (ii) such third-parties lack sufficient quality control and fail to deliver quality components, products, services or software on time and at reasonable prices or deliver products, services or software that do not meet regulatory or industry standards or requirements, (iii) if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third-parties, or (iv) if we have difficulties transitioning operations to such third-parties.Because of the long life-cycle of many of our products, we need access to limited quantities of components for manufacturing and repair and suppliers have been and may continue to be unwilling to manufacture such components or may only do so at high prices.  Certain key component suppliers are reducing the expected lifetime of key components, in particular semiconductor and electrical components, on some of our products which could result in the need for more frequent product redesigns and increased engineering costs on some products or costly last time buys, which may negatively impact our financial performance. In addition, we may be unable to meet our repair obligations to our customers.We are exposed to risks under large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts that may negatively impact our business.We enter into large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts with large municipal, state, nation-wide government and commercial customers.  In some cases we may not be the prime contractor and may be dependent on other third-parties such as commercial carriers or systems integrators. This exposes us to risks, including among others: (i) the technological risks, especially when the contracts involve new technology, (ii) risk of defaults by third-parties on whom we are relying for products or service as part of our offering or who are the prime contractors, (iii) financial risks, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long-term contracts, the impact of currency fluctuations, inflation, and the related impact on operating results, (iv) cyber security risk, especially in managed services contracts with public safety and commercial customers that process data, and (v) political risk, especially related to the contracts with government customers.  In addition, multi-year awards from governmental customers may often only receive partial funding initially and may typically be cancelable on short notice with limited penalties. Recovery of front loaded capital expenditures in long-term managed services contracts is dependent on the continued viability of such customers. The termination of funding for a government program or insolvency of commercial customer could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability.15The expansion of our solutions and services business creates new competitors and new and increased areas of risk that we have not been exposed to in the past and that we may not be able to properly assess or mitigate.We plan to continue to expand our solutions and services business by offering additional and expanded managed services for existing and new types of customers, such as designing, building, operating, managing and in some cases owning a public-safety system or other commercial system. The offering of managed services involves the integration of multiple services, multiple vendors and multiple technologies, requiring that we partner with other solutions and services providers, often on multi-year projects. In some cases we must compete with a company in some business areas and cooperate with the same company in other business areas. From time to time such projects may require that we form a joint venture with or engage in joint development with our partners. Risks associated with expanding our managed services offerings include:•We may be unable to recognize revenue from the sale of equipment in connection with managed services contracts for a period of time, which may be several years. •The managed services business is one characterized by large subcontracting arrangements and we may not be able to obtain favorable contract terms or adequate indemnities or other protections from our subcontractors to adequately mitigate our risk to our customers.•We may face increasing competition from traditional system integrators and the defense industry as solutions and services contracts become larger and more complicated. •Expansion will bring us into contact with new regulatory requirements and restrictions, such as data residency or data localization obligations, with which we will have to comply and may increase the costs of doing business, reduce margins and delay or limit the range of new solutions and services which we will be able to offer. •We may be required to agree to specific performance metrics that meet the customer's requirement for network security, availability, reliability, maintenance and support and, in some cases, if these performance metrics are not met we may not be paid.Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new products and technologies and our results can be impacted by the effectiveness of our significant investments in new products and technologies.The markets for certain of our products are characterized by changing technologies and evolving industry standards. In some cases it is unclear what specific technology will be adopted in the market or what delivery model will prevail, including whether public safety LTE will be delivered via private networks, public carriers or some combination thereof.  In addition, new technologies such as voice over LTE or push-to-talk clients over LTE could reduce sales of our traditional products. The shift to smart public safety and the prevalence of data in our customer’s use cases results in our competing in a more fragmented marketplace. In addition, new technologies and new competitors continue to enter our markets at a faster pace than we have experienced in the past, resulting in increased competition from non-traditional suppliers, including public carriers, telecom equipment providers, consumer device manufacturers and software companies. New products are expensive to develop and bring to market and additional complexities are added when this process is outsourced as we have done in certain cases or as we increase our reliance on third-party content and technology. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of new products, upgrades and enhancements of current products to comply with emerging industry standards, laws and regulations, such as China's proprietary technology, PDT, and to address competing technological and product developments carried out by our competitors. Developing new technologies to compete in a specific market may not be financially viable, resulting in our inability to compete in that market. The R&D of new, technologically-advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as well as the accurate anticipation of technology and market trends. Many of our products and systems are complex and we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products or technologies in the future. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not become widely accepted or are not commercially viable or involve compliance obligations with additional areas of regulatory requirements.Our results are subject to risks related to our significant investment in developing and introducing new products. These risks include among others: (i) difficulties and delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products, particularly when such activities are done through third-parties, (ii) customer acceptance of products, (iii) the development of, approval of, and compliance with industry standards and regulatory requirements, (iv) the significant amount of resources we must devote to the development of new technologies, and (v) the ability to differentiate our products and compete with other companies in the same markets.If the quality of our products does not meet our customers' expectations or regulatory or industry standards, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted.Some of the products we sell may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, we discover quality issues in the products after they have been shipped to our customers, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least disruptive to our customers, particularly in light of the mission-critical nature of our communications products. Such pre-shipment and post-shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including: (i) delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, (ii) customer-imposed penalties on us for failure to meet contractual requirements, (iii) increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and (iv) a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation.16In some cases, if the quality issue affects the product's performance, safety or regulatory compliance, then such a “defective” product may need to be “stop-shipped” or recalled. Depending on the nature of the quality issue and the number of products in the field, it could cause us to incur substantial recall or corrective field action costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential loss of future orders and the damage to our goodwill or brand reputation. In addition, we may be required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for failed performance that might exceed the revenue that we receive from the contracts. Recalls and field actions involving regulatory non-compliance could also result in fines and additional costs. Recalls and field actions could result in third-party litigation by persons or companies alleging harm or economic damage as a result or the use of the products.We have completed a number of large divestitures over the last several years and have ongoing potential liabilities and obligations associated with those transactions and the businesses we divested.   In addition, these divestitures have resulted in less diversity of our business and our customer base, which could negatively impact our financial results in the event of a downturn in our mission-critical communications business.Over the last several years we have spun-off or sold a number of large businesses, including Motorola Mobility, our Networks business and our Enterprise business. In connection with our divestitures we typically remain liable for certain pre-closing liabilities associated with the divested business, such as pension liabilities, taxes, employment, environmental liabilities and litigation. In the case of the sale of our Enterprise business we agreed to a multi-year non-compete which may limit our ability to develop and sell products for our commercial customers. In addition, although we often assign contracts associated with the divested business to a buyer in a divestiture, often that assignment will be subject to the consent of the contractual counterparty, which may not be obtained or may be conditioned, resulting in the company remaining liable under the contract. In connection with our divestitures we make representations and warranties and agree to covenants relating to the business divested. We remain liable for a period of time for breaches of representations, warranties and covenants and we also indemnify buyers in the event of such breaches and for other specific risks. Even though we establish reserves for any expected ongoing liability associated with divested businesses, those reserves may not be sufficient if unexpected liabilities arise and this could negatively impact our financial condition and future results of operations.Because we are now singularly focused on mission-critical communications for public safety and commercial customers we have less diversity in our business and our customer base. A downturn in this business could have a greater negative impact on our financial results than when we were a more diversified communications provider.  We expect to continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions.In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities or to meet other strategic needs such as product or technology gaps, we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty or inability in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner, particularly in light of the fact that certain of our enterprise legacy information systems including components of our ERP system are owned by Zebra and we are unable to make significant changes to these systems until completion of our new ERP implementation, (ii) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems, particularly in light of the ERP system changes, (iii) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions, (iv) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets, (v) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses, (vi) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations, (vii) the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience, (viii) difficulties in integrating information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses and (ix) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. In particular, failure to achieve targeted cost and revenue synergies could negatively impact our business performance.Certain acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate may carry higher relative valuations (based on revenues, earnings, cash flow, or other relevant multiples) than we do. This is particularly evident in software and certain services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher relative valuation than Motorola Solutions may be dilutive to our earnings. In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly dilutive to near-term earnings.Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection with a transaction in the form of cash payments for their ownership interest, particularly in the case of founders, change-in-control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity-based compensation rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may offer additional retention incentives, but it may still be difficult to retain certain key employees.We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights.Our business will be harmed if: (i) we, our customers and/or our suppliers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third-parties, (ii) the intellectual property indemnities in our supplier agreements are inadequate to cover damages and losses due to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by supplier products, (iii) we are required to provide broad intellectual property indemnities to our customers, (iv) our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect against threats of misappropriation from internal or external sources or otherwise inadequate to protect our proprietary rights, or (v) our competitors negotiate significantly more favorable terms for licensed intellectual property. We may be harmed if we are forced to make publicly available, under the relevant open-source licenses, certain internally developed software-related intellectual property as a result of either our use of open-source software code or the use of third-party software that contains open-source code.17Since our products are comprised of complex technology, much of which we acquire from suppliers through the purchase of components or licensing of software, we are often involved in or impacted by assertions, including both requests for licenses and litigation, regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third-parties have asserted, and in the future may assert, intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our customers and suppliers. Many of these assertions are brought by non-practicing entities whose principle business model is to secure patent licensing-based revenue from product manufacturing companies. The patent holders often make broad and sweeping claims regarding the applicability of their patents to our products, seeking a percentage of sales as licenses fees, seeking injunctions to pressure us into taking a license, or a combination thereof. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Increasingly, third-parties have sought broad injunctive relief which could limit our ability to sell our products in the U.S. or elsewhere with intellectual property subject to the claims. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing products or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation, each of which could have a negative impact on our financial results. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain products if we or our customer or supplier are subject to a final injunction.We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property indemnities with our suppliers for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our negotiations or that a supplier's indemnity will cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers due to the infringing products or that a supplier will choose to accept a license or modify or replace its products with non-infringing products which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, we may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a supplier and may not be able to influence any ultimate resolution or outcome that may negatively impact our sales if a court enters an injunction that enjoins the supplier's products or if the International Trade Commission issues an exclusionary order that blocks our products from importation into the U.S. Intellectual property disputes involving our suppliers have resulted in our involvement in International Trade Commission proceedings from time to time. These proceedings are costly and entail the risk that we will be subjected to a ban on the importation of our products into the U.S. solely as a result of our use of a supplier's components.In addition, our customers increasingly demand that we indemnify them broadly from all damages and losses resulting from intellectual property litigation against them. These demands stem from the increasing trend of the non-practicing entities that engage in patent enforcement and litigation targeting the end users of our products.  End users are targeted so the non-practicing entities can seek royalties and litigation judgments in proportion to the value of the use of our products, rather than in proportion to the cost of our products. Such demands can amount to many times the selling price of our products.Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important competitive tools and may generate income under license agreements. We regard our intellectual property as proprietary and attempt to protect it with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other methods. We also generally restrict access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third-party to obtain and use our proprietary information or develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third-parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our financial results.As we expand our business, including through acquisitions, and compete with new competitors in new markets, the breadth and strength of our intellectual property portfolio in those new areas may not be as developed as in our longer-standing businesses. This may expose us to a heightened risk of litigation and other challenges from competitors in these new markets. Further, competitors may be able to negotiate significantly more favorable terms for licensed intellectual property than we are able to, which puts them at a competitive advantage.Tax matters could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign tax jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability may be negatively impacted by: (i) changes in the mix of earnings taxable in jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, (ii) changes in tax laws and accounting principles, (iii) changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, (iv) failure to meet commitments under tax incentive agreements, (v) discovery of new information during the course of tax return preparation, (vi) increases in nondeductible expenses, or (vii) difficulties in repatriating cash held abroad in a tax-efficient manner.Tax audits may also negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns, and tax authorities may disagree with our tax positions and assess additional tax. We regularly evaluate the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have a negative impact on our future financial condition and operating results.18Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, retain and prepare succession plans for senior management and key employees.The performance of our CEO, senior management and other key employees is critical to our success. If we are unable to retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key employees or attract them when needed, it could negatively impact us. We rely on the experience of our senior management, most of who have been with the Company for many years and as a result have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace and competition for management with experience in the communications industry is intense. A loss of the CEO, a member of senior management or key employee particularly to a competitor could also place us at a competitive disadvantage. Further, if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our CEO, senior management and other key employees, the Company could be negatively impacted.It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of engineers and other highly-skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive and layoffs of such skilled employees as a result of divestitures, restructuring activities or cost reductions may benefit our competitors.Competition for key technical personnel in high-technology industries is intense. As we expand our solutions and services business we have an even greater demand for technical personnel in areas like software development than we have historically had and competition for such resources is greater.  We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly-skilled personnel needed to develop successful new products or services. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and utilizing these highly-skilled personnel.  In addition, as we have divested businesses and restructured our operations we have, in some cases, had to layoff engineers and other highly skilled employees.  If these employees were to go to work for our competitors it could have a negative impact on our business.We may not continue to have access to the capital markets for financing on acceptable terms and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are downgraded.From time to time we access the capital markets to obtain financing. Our access to the capital markets and the bank credit markets at acceptable terms and conditions are impacted by many factors, including: (i) our credit ratings, (ii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets, (iii) strength and credit availability in the banking markets, and (iv) the current state of the economy. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the capital markets or bank credit markets on terms acceptable to us.We are rated investment grade by all three national rating agencies. Any downward changes by the rating agencies to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. Under certain circumstances, an increase in the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility could result. In addition, a downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our ability to: (i) access the capital markets or bank credit markets, (ii) provide performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and surety bonds, (iii) hedge foreign exchange risk, (iv) fund our foreign affiliates, and (v) sell receivables. A downgrade in our credit rating could also result in less favorable trade terms with suppliers. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing. Any future disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets may result in higher funding costs for us and adversely affect our ability to access funds and other credit related products. In addition, we may avoid taking actions that would otherwise benefit us or our stockholders, such as engaging in certain acquisitions or engaging in stock repurchases, that would negatively impact our credit rating.Returns on pension and retirement plan assets and interest rate changes could affect our earnings and cash flow in future periods.Although we engaged in pension de-risking activities in 2014, we continue to have large underfunded pension obligations, in part resulting from the fact that we retained almost all of the U.S. pension liabilities and a major portion of our non-U.S. pension liabilities following our divestitures, including the distribution of Motorola Mobility, the sale of our Networks business and the sale of our Enterprise business. The funding position of our pension plans is affected by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity and debt markets, and the interest rates used to calculate our pension obligations for funding and expense purposes. Minimum annual pension contributions are determined by government regulations and calculated based upon our pension funding status, interest rates, and other factors. If the financial markets perform poorly, we have been and could be required to make additional large contributions. The equity and debt markets can be volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can affect our contribution requirements. In volatile interest rate environments, the likelihood of material changes in the future minimum required contributions increases.Changes in our operations or sales outside the U.S. markets could result in lost benefits in impacted countries and increase our cost of doing business.We have entered into various agreements with non-U.S. governments, agencies or similar organizations under which we receive certain benefits relating to its operations and/or sales in the jurisdiction. If our circumstances change, and operations or sales are not at levels originally anticipated, we may be at risk of having to reimburse benefits already granted, and losing some or all of these benefits and increasing our cost of doing business.19We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws that continue to expand and could impact our ability to grow our business, could subject us to unexpected costs and liabilities and could impact our financial performance.Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws. Compliance with such existing or future laws could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products and services we can offer, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to certain substances. For example, in the U.S., laws often require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault and often times in response to action or omissions that were legal at the time they occurred. We continue to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Changes to environmental laws or our discovery of additional obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on our financial performance.Laws focused on: (i) the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, (ii) recycling of both electronic products and packaging, (iii) reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products, (iv) and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries and other aspects of our products are also proliferating. There are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, medical related functionality, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether we can offer certain products, solutions and services, on product costs, and on what capabilities and characteristics our products or services can or must include.These laws could impact our products and negatively affect our ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate that we will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility.We may be unable to obtain components and parts that are verified to be Democratic Republic of Congo ("DRC") Conflict Free, which could result in reputational damage if we disclose that our products include minerals that have been identified as “not found to be DRC conflict free” or if we disclose that we are unable to determine whether such minerals are included in our products.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (which are defined as “conflict minerals”) in our products and if the origin of these materials were from the DRC or an adjoining country. If the minerals originated from the DRC or an adjoining country then a company must disclose the measures it has taken to exercise due diligence and chain of custody to prevent the sourcing of such minerals that have been found to be financing conflict in the DRC. There is a limited pool of suppliers who can provide verifiable DRC Conflict Free components and parts, particularly since our supply chain is complex. As a result, we may be required to publicly disclose that we are not currently able to determine if the products we manufactured in 2014 are DRC Conflict Free. For future reporting years, if the industry systems that we are relying on are not mature enough for us to make a definitive Conflict Free determination, we may have to declare our products as “not found to be DRC conflict free,” or such other definitional standard as determined by the SEC and/or the judicial system and we may face reputational challenges with our customers, other stockholders and the activist community as a result. In addition the European Union is in the process of drafting conflict minerals legislation which may have an impact on our reporting obligations and compliance programs in Europe. Item 1B