Item 1A: Risk Factors” we discuss some of the
    risk factors that could cause actual results to differ
    materially from those stated in the forward-looking
    statements.


 


    “Motorola” (which may be referred to as the
    “Company,” “we,” “us,” or
    “our”) means Motorola, Inc. or Motorola, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries, or one of our segments, as the context requires.
    “Motorola” is a registered trademark of Motorola,
    Inc.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1: 

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    We provide technologies, products and services that make a broad
    range of mobile experiences possible. Our portfolio includes
    wireless handsets, wireless accessories, digital entertainment
    devices, wireless access systems, voice and data communications
    systems, and enterprise mobility products. With the rapid
    convergence of fixed and mobile broadband Internet and the
    growing demand for next-generation mobile communications
    products by people, businesses and governments, we are focused
    on high-quality, innovative products that meet the expanding
    needs of our customers around the world.


 


    We operate in the following businesses:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Mobile Devices business designs, manufactures, sells
    and services wireless handsets with integrated software and
    accessory products, and licenses intellectual property.




 



     
        • 

    
    The Home and Networks Mobility business designs,
    manufactures, sells, installs and services: (i) digital
    video, Internet Protocol video and broadcast network interactive
    set-tops, end-to-end video delivery systems, broadband access
    infrastructure platforms, and associated data and voice customer
    premise equipment to cable television and telecom service
    providers, and (ii) wireless access systems, including
    cellular infrastructure systems and wireless broadband systems,
    to wireless service providers.




 



     
        • 

    
    The Enterprise Mobility Solutions business designs,
    manufactures, sells, installs and services analog and digital
    two-way radio, voice and data communications products and
    systems for private networks, wireless broadband systems and
    end-to-end enterprise mobility solutions to a wide range of
    enterprise markets, including government and public safety
    agencies, as well as retail, energy and utilities,
    transportation, manufacturing, healthcare and other commercial
    customers.





 


    Motorola is a corporation organized under the laws of the State
    of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation
    organized in 1928. Motorola’s principal executive offices
    are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois
    60196.


 



    Business
    Segments


 


    We report financial results for the following three operating
    business segments:


 



    Mobile
    Devices Segment


 


    The Mobile Devices segment (“Mobile Devices” or the
    “segment”) designs, manufactures, sells and services
    wireless handsets with integrated software and accessory
    products, and licenses intellectual property. In 2008, the
    segment’s net sales represented 40% of the Company’s
    consolidated net sales.


 



    Principal
    Products and Services


 


    Our wireless subscriber products include wireless handsets and
    related software and accessory products. We also sell and
    license our intellectual property. We market our products
    globally to carriers and consumers through direct sales,
    distributors, retailers and, in certain markets, through
    licensees.







Table of Contents





    2



 



    Our
    Industry


 


    Total industry shipments of wireless handsets (also referred to
    as industry “sell-in”) increased to approximately
    1.2 billion units in 2008, a 5% increase compared to 2007.
    Demand from new subscribers was strong in emerging markets, led
    by India and China. During the second half of 2008, a global
    economic downturn impacted the wireless handset industry,
    resulting in the slowing of end-user demand.


 


    The ongoing downturn in the global economy has many industry
    forecasters predicting a challenging 2009 for the wireless
    handset industry, with many predicting industry handset unit
    shipments to decline approximately 10% for the full year 2009
    compared to 2008. This would be the first decline in annual
    industry handset unit shipments since 2001. The expected decline
    would be a result of both slowing growth in the emerging markets
    and lower replacement sales in highly-penetrated markets.


 


    Beyond 2009, we expect growth to return to the wireless handset
    industry. We believe growth rates will be in the mid single
    digits for the years 2010 and 2011, compared to the 15% CAGR
    experienced by the industry from 2004 through 2008. Although
    slowing, growth is expected to continue to be driven primarily
    by demand from new subscribers in emerging markets and
    replacement sales from the current subscriber base. As growth in
    the overall industry for mobile wireless handsets slows, we
    expect smartphones (devices that primarily have an open
    operating system and provide the opportunity to develop and run
    native applications) to be the fastest growing market segment.


 



    Our
    Strategy


 


    Motorola seeks to be a leading supplier of wireless handsets and
    mobile experiences to customers globally. To accomplish this
    objective, our strategy is focused on simplifying product
    platforms, enhancing our mid- and
    high-tier
    product portfolio, and strengthening our position in priority
    markets. We have taken significant actions in 2008 to simplify
    our wireless handset platforms and enhance our product
    portfolio, while reducing the size and cost structure of the
    Mobile Devices business. These actions will accelerate our speed
    to market with new products, allow us to offer richer consumer
    experiences and improve our financial performance.


 


    Simplifying product platforms is an essential component of our
    overall strategy. We have reduced the number of product
    platforms that we support, increasing our emphasis on 3G and
    smartphone devices and maintaining our focus on CDMA and iDEN.
    We are implementing aggressive plans to rationalize both
    hardware and software platforms in order to reduce the
    complexity of our product platforms and system architectures.
    Our hardware platforms will leverage fewer chipset suppliers for
    our handsets. In addition, our software platforms will focus on
    Android (a Google-developed, royalty-free platform), Windows
    Mobile (a Microsoft platform) and P2K (a Motorola internal,
    proprietary platform). We will also continue to focus on our
    proprietary iDEN technology and the CDMA software platforms.
    CDMA and iDEN are technologies in which our segment has
    traditionally maintained a strong market share position. Success
    in these technologies also aligns with our focus on priority
    markets. These steps will provide Mobile Devices with the
    ability to streamline our portfolio, emphasizing product
    development and innovation, while also addressing the changing
    marketplace.


 


    As the market evolves to reflect the emergence of converged
    wireless devices, mobile internet, social networking, navigation
    and messaging, the shift from “voice-centric” devices
    to “data-centric” devices is expected to continue.
    These devices, which include smartphones, deliver unique
    consumer experiences and require complete “end-to-end”
    solutions that incorporate various applications and services. By
    utilizing the smartphone platforms, we will provide a broad
    array of devices, targeted at delivering computer-like
    functionality, such as web browsing and email, in both our mid-
    and high-tier offerings. Over the next 12 to 18 months our
    primary smartphone development will be based on the Android
    operating system. As new generations of Windows Mobile enter the
    market, we intend to increase our focus on this platform as
    well. We will also leverage relationships with partners and
    developers in order to provide the necessary applications and
    services to support the “end-to-end” solutions desired
    by our consumers. We intend to utilize our experience with the
    Linux / Java platform and leverage our assets from
    previous Linux/Java investments, to deliver compelling
    applications and user experiences, such as more highly
    integrated social networking experiences.


 


    In addition to our portfolio streamlining and enhancement
    efforts, over the next year we will also increase our focus in
    priority markets. These markets will include North America,
    Latin America and parts of Asia, including China. Historically,
    these are regions in which we have experienced strong market
    share and brand position. Additionally, these regions have
    represented a significant portion of the segment’s overall
    business. We will also continue to leverage our brand position
    in these markets. In other geographies, we will prioritize and
    make







Table of Contents





    3




    investments commensurate with the competitiveness of our
    portfolio. Longer term, we plan to compete in all major markets.


 


    Along with our mobile handset initiatives, we have also
    increased focus in our accessories portfolio to deliver complete
    mobile experiences and to complement the features and
    functionalities of wireless handsets. Expanding our accessory
    compatibility across all brands of wireless handsets and
    Bluetooth-enabled devices, as well as into spaces such as
    navigation, will provide greater opportunities for growth.


 


    We continue to invest in next-generation technologies for
    wireless devices based on WiMAX, High-Speed Downlink Packet
    Access (“HSDPA”) and Long-Term Evolution
    (“LTE”). We believe a strong intellectual property
    portfolio is critical to our long-term success and to ensuring
    that we maintain a favorable strategic position that demonstrate
    unique experiences and value for consumers. In application
    services, we continue to work with third parties to improve upon
    and develop our services and applications, which will deliver
    rich experiences to the customer. Motorola is committed to
    investing in evolving technologies to ensure that we continue to
    deliver enhanced and differentiated wireless handset experiences
    to consumers.


 



    Customers


 


    The segment has several large customers located throughout the
    world. In 2008, aggregate net sales to the segment’s five
    largest customers represented approximately 41% of the
    segment’s net sales. The loss of one or more of these
    customers could have a material adverse effect on the
    segment’s business. In addition to selling directly to
    carriers and operators, our Mobile Devices business also sells
    products through a variety of third-party distributors and
    retailers, which account for approximately 24% of the
    segment’s net sales.


 


    Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions
    may cause, and in some cases has caused, our customers to
    maintain tighter inventory management. We experienced this
    beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and expect this trend to
    continue into 2009, which could impact the timing of future
    sales.


 


    The U.S. market continued to be the segment’s largest
    individual market, accounting for approximately 44% of the
    segment’s net sales in 2008, compared to approximately 46%
    of the segment’s net sales in 2007. Approximately 56% of
    the segment’s net sales in 2008 were to markets outside the
    U.S., the largest of which were Brazil, China and Mexico.
    Compared to 2007, the segment experienced sales declines in each
    of its four major sales regions: North America, the Europe,
    Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) region, Asia and Latin
    America.


 



    Competition


 


    The segment believes its overall market share for the full year
    2008 was approximately 8%, making it the fourth-largest
    worldwide supplier of wireless handsets on a full-year basis.
    For full year 2007, the segment’s overall market share was
    approximately 14%. We estimate our market share in the fourth
    quarter of 2008 to be approximately 6%, a decrease of
    approximately 6 percentage points versus the fourth quarter
    of 2007. The significant decrease was primarily driven by the
    segment’s limited product offerings in critical market
    segments, particularly 3G products, including smartphones,
    and very low-tier products.


 


    The segment experiences intense competition in worldwide markets
    from numerous global competitors, such as Nokia, Samsung, LG and
    Sony-Ericsson. In 2008, the five largest handset manufacturers
    together held an aggregate market share of approximately 80%,
    compared to 83% at the end of 2007.


 


    Smartphones emerged as a major product in the wireless handset
    market during 2008. Manufacturers with strong smartphone
    portfolios have benefited from this. Motorola is committed to
    enhancing its smartphone portfolio to compete more effectively
    and will focus on Android and Windows Mobile software platforms
    for these products, while also continuing to focus on our
    proprietary iDEN technology and the CDMA software platforms.


 


    General competitive factors in the market for the segment’s
    products include: overall quality of user experience; design;
    time-to-market; brand awareness; technology offered; price;
    product features, performance, quality, delivery and warranty;
    the quality and availability of service; and relationships with
    key customers.


 



    Payment
    Terms


 


    The segment’s customers and distributors buy from us
    regularly with payment terms that are competitive with current
    industry practices. These terms vary globally and generally
    range from cash-with-order to 60 days.







Table of Contents





    4




    Extended payment terms beyond 60 days are provided to
    certain customers on a limited basis. A customer’s
    outstanding credit at any point in time is limited to a
    predetermined amount as established by the Company.


 



    Regulatory
    Matters


 


    Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The
    allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and
    other countries, and limited spectrum space is allocated to
    wireless services. The growth of the wireless and personal
    communications industry may be affected if adequate frequencies
    are not allocated or, alternatively, if new technologies are not
    developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated
    for such use. Industry growth may also be affected by the cost
    of the new licenses required to use frequencies and any related
    frequency relocation costs.


 


    The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing
    new wireless communications technologies to be developed and
    offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network
    systems, such as WiFi, and wide area network systems, such as
    WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also deregulated portions of
    their available spectrum to allow deployment of these and other
    new technologies. In addition, Mobile WiMAX was approved in 2007
    as a global IMT (International Mobile Telecommunications)
    standard. This action lays the foundation to further expand
    mobile WiMAX in key bands, making additional spectrum available
    globally. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new
    opportunities for Motorola and our customers.


 


    In 2008, the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”)
    conducted its auction of 700 MHz band spectrum licenses in
    the United States. This spectrum can carry large amounts of data
    across long distances and penetrate walls easier than higher
    frequencies, enhancing in-building coverage. The spectrum is
    being recovered from television broadcast use as a result of the
    transition from analog to digital television. The spectrum was
    expected to be fully available for mobile operations as of
    February 17, 2009, however the date of the transition from
    analog to digital has been moved to June 12, 2009. This
    delay is not expected to significantly delay the deployment of
    services. However, any additional delays may have a greater
    impact on service deployment. The FCC has imposed open-access
    conditions that prevent the licensee from blocking devices or
    applications that are compatible with the network on
    approximately one-third of the 700 MHz spectrum that was
    auctioned. These conditions are intended to help foster
    innovation in handsets and applications. However, the actual
    impact of the new licenses remains unclear.






 


    In January 2009, China’s Ministry of Industry and
    Information Technology issued licenses for its 3G mobile
    data network to the three key operators in China. With the
    Company’s focus on 3G products and smartphones and its
    focus on China as a high-priority market, we believe that we
    will benefit from the 3G transition in China.


 



    Backlog


 


    The segment’s backlog was $290 million at
    December 31, 2008, compared to $647 million at
    December 31, 2007. This decrease in backlog is primarily
    due to a decline in customer demand, driven by the
    segment’s limited product portfolio, as well as the global
    economic downturn. The 2008 backlog is believed to be generally
    firm and 100% of that amount is expected to be recognized as
    revenue in 2009. The forward-looking estimate of the firmness of
    such orders is subject to future events that may cause the
    amount recognized to change.


 



    Intellectual
    Property Matters


 


    Patent protection is extremely important to the segment’s
    operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents
    relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing
    processes. The segment licenses certain of its patents to third
    parties and generates revenue from these licenses. Motorola is
    also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty
    and licensing fees vary from year to year and are subject to the
    terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products
    subject to licenses. The protection of these licenses is also
    important to the segment’s operations. Reference is made to
    the material under the heading “Other Information” for
    additional information relating to patents and trademarks and
    research and development activities with respect to this segment.


 



    Inventory,
    Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality


 


    The segment’s practice is to carry reasonable amounts of
    inventory in manufacturing and distribution centers in order to
    meet customer delivery requirements in a manner consistent with
    industry standards. At the end of







Table of Contents





    5




    2008, the segment had a lower inventory balance than at the end
    of 2007. The decrease reflects the continued decline in sales
    volumes during 2008.


 


    Availability of materials and components required by the segment
    is relatively dependable, but fluctuations in supply and market
    demand could cause selective shortages and affect results. We
    currently source certain materials and components from single
    vendors. Any material disruption from a single-source vendor may
    have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. If
    certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or
    insolvent as a result of the ongoing global financial crisis, it
    could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an
    increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact the
    segment’s financial results.


 


    Natural gas, electricity, and, to a lesser extent, oil are the
    primary sources of energy required for the segment’s
    manufacturing operations. Each of these resources are currently
    in generally adequate supply for the segment’s operations.
    In addition, the cost to operate our facilities and freight
    costs are dependent on world oil prices, which fluctuated
    significantly during 2008 and impacted our manufacturing and
    shipping costs. Labor is generally available in reasonable
    proximity to the segment’s manufacturing facilities.
    However, difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned
    items or a significant cost increase could affect the
    segment’s results.


 


    The segment permits returns under limited circumstances to
    remain competitive with current industry practices.


 


    The segment typically experiences higher sales in the fourth
    calendar quarter and lower sales in the first calendar quarter
    of each year due to seasonal trends in the wireless handset
    industry.


 



    Our
    Facilities/Manufacturing


 


    Our headquarters are located in Libertyville, Illinois. Our
    other major facilities are located in Plantation, Florida;
    Beijing, Hangzhou, Nanjing and Tianjin, China; Seoul, South
    Korea; Chennai, India; and Jaguariuna, Brazil.


 


    We also use several electronics manufacturing suppliers
    (“EMS”) and original design manufacturers
    (“ODM”) to enhance our ability to lower our costs
    and/or
    deliver products that meet consumer demands in the
    rapidly-changing technological environment. A significant
    portion of our handsets are manufactured either completely or
    substantially by non-affiliated EMS and ODM manufacturers,
    primarily by two third-party manufacturers in China.


 


    In 2008, our handsets were primarily manufactured in Asia and
    Brazil, and we expect this to continue in 2009. Our largest
    manufacturing facilities are located in China and Brazil. Each
    of these facilities serves multiple countries and regions of the
    world.


 



    Home
    and Networks Mobility Segment


 


    The Home and Networks Mobility segment (“Home and Networks
    Mobility” or the “segment”) designs,
    manufactures, sells, installs and services: (i) digital
    video, Internet Protocol (“IP”) video and broadcast
    network interactive set-tops (“digital entertainment
    devices”), end-to-end video delivery systems, broadband
    access infrastructure platforms, and associated data and voice
    customer premise equipment (“broadband gateways”) to
    cable television and telecom service providers (collectively,
    referred to as the “home business”), and
    (ii) wireless access systems (“wireless
    networks”), including cellular infrastructure systems and
    wireless broadband systems, to wireless service providers
    (collectively, referred to as the “networks
    business”). In 2008, the segment’s net sales
    represented 33% of the Company’s consolidated net sales.


 



    Principal
    Products and Services


 


    In the home business, the segment is a leading provider of
    end-to-end networks used for the delivery of video, data and
    voice services over hybrid fiber coaxial (“HFC”)
    networks, digital subscriber line (“DSL”) networks and
    passive optical networks (“PON”). Our portfolio
    includes: MPEG video encoding equipment for standard-definition
    and high-definition television (“HDTV” or
    “HD”); video processing and multiplexing systems; and
    video-on-demand,
    switched digital video and conditional access systems used by
    network operators and programmers to deliver video programming.
    We provide a broad array of digital entertainment devices
    supporting analog, digital and IP video delivery, including HD
    and digital video recording (“DVR”) (together,
    “HD/DVR”) applications. We support the delivery of
    high-speed data and voice services with head-end and central
    office







Table of Contents





    6




    equipment, along with data and voice modems and gateways for HFC
    and DSL networks and optical line and optical node terminals for
    PON networks.


 


    In the networks business, the segment provides end-to-end
    cellular networks, including radio base stations, base station
    controllers, associated software and services, application
    platforms and third-party switching for CDMA, GSM,
    iDEN®

    and UMTS technologies. The segment also offers a portfolio of
    WiMAX products and is in trials with customers to provide our
    LTE technology to enable next-generation mobile IP broadband
    access. WiMAX and LTE will make mobile bandwidth more affordable
    and accessible for mainstream consumer adoption.


 


    Our products are marketed primarily to cable television
    operators, telecom operators, wireless service providers,
    television programmers and other communications providers
    worldwide and are sold primarily by our internal sales force.


 



    Our
    Industry


 


    The home market is evolving rapidly as cable and telecom network
    operators expand their video, data and voice services (commonly
    known as the “triple play”) to grow their subscriber
    base. The competition between cable and telecom service
    providers continues to increase. Telecom operators are expanding
    their broadband networks and beginning to offer advanced video
    and data services using IPTV and PON technologies. Cable
    operators are responding by expanding their investment in HD
    programming, bundling voice-over-IP services, expanding their
    broadband data service through Data Over Cable Service Interface
    Specifications (“DOCSIS”) 3.0 channel bonding, and
    maximizing utilization of network bandwidth using switched
    digital video technology.


 


    Our home business is subject to regulation by the FCC in the
    United States and other governmental communication regulators
    throughout the world. FCC regulations requiring separation of
    security functionality from cable set-tops became effective in
    2007. This has resulted in increased competition for sales of
    set-top boxes to cable operators and has enabled a retail
    distribution of devices capable of accessing encrypted cable
    programming. Our home business offers a cablecard that allows
    third-party consumer electronic devices to be deployed on a
    network using the Motorola conditional access system. Motorola
    also offers a portfolio of cable card host set-tops that allows
    our digital video set-tops to be deployed in service provider
    networks using third-party encryption technology.


 


    In the wireless networks market, the majority of installed
    cellular infrastructure systems are based on CDMA, GSM, UMTS and
    iDEN technologies. We supply systems based on each of these
    technologies and are the sole supplier of proprietary iDEN
    networks. Advanced infrastructure systems based on these
    technologies include GPRS, CDMA-1X and EDGE. In addition, some
    segments of the cellular infrastructure industry have installed,
    or are in the process of migrating to, 3G networks, which are
    high-capacity radio access wireless networks providing enhanced
    data services, improved Internet access and increased voice
    capacity. The primary 3G technologies are
    W-CDMA
    (based on either UMTS or Freedom of Mobile Multimedia Access
    (“FOMA”) technologies) and CDMA 2000 1xEVDO. We
    supply 3G systems based on UMTS and CDMA 2000 1xEVDO
    technologies. An additional 3G technology standard, TD-SCDMA,
    has been driven primarily by the Chinese government and local
    Chinese vendors. China’s Ministry of Industry and
    Information Technology awarded 3G licenses in early 2009, which
    is driving regional network upgrades.


 


    Industry standards bodies are in the process of defining the
    next generation of wireless broadband systems after 3G. The
    Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
    (“IEEE”) has developed fixed and mobile broadband
    standards (802.16d and 802.16e) based on orthogonal frequency
    division multiplexing (“OFDM”) technology, which will
    utilize wider channels and enable triple play services (voice,
    data, video). These standards are the basis for WiMAX, a market
    that experienced strong growth in 2008. Motorola has been
    awarded a number of WiMAX contracts and customers in various
    markets have started to offer commercial WiMAX services
    utilizing Motorola infrastructure equipment. We are an early
    leader in WiMAX technology.


 


    The International Telecommunications Union (“ITU”) has
    also adopted next-generation cellular wireless access standards
    (“4G”) for the cellular infrastructure industry, also
    based on OFDM technology and known commonly as LTE. LTE has
    widespread industry support, not only from current GSM and UMTS
    operators, but also from CDMA/EV-DO based carriers.


 


    Licensing bodies of governments around the world are making
    spectrum available for advanced wireless technologies, including
    4G, in recognition of growing demand for wireless broadband
    services. Currently, Motorola estimates that there are over
    1,200 licenses available worldwide for advanced wireless
    technologies with over 800 licenses outside of North America.







Table of Contents





    7



 


    Demand for our products depends primarily on capital spending by
    providers of cellular and broadband services for constructing,
    rebuilding or upgrading their communications systems, as well as
    the marketing of advanced communications services by those
    providers. The amount of spending by these providers, and
    therefore a majority of our sales and profitability, are
    affected by a variety of factors, including: (i) the
    continuing trend of consolidation within the cable, wireline and
    wireless industries, (ii) the financial condition of
    operators and alternative providers, including their access to
    financing, (iii) technological developments,
    (iv) standardization efforts that impact the deployment of
    new equipment, (v) new legislation and regulations
    affecting the equipment sold by the segment, and
    (vi) general economic conditions.


 


    During 2008, wireless operators’ expenditures globally for
    2G technology and related services, such as GSM, GPRS and EDGE,
    were comparable to 2007, while similar expenditures for iDEN
    technology were down. Global expenditures for 3G technology and
    related services, such as UMTS, increased in 2008, while similar
    expenditures for CDMA/EV-DO technology were comparable to 2007.
    Global expenditures for next-generation technologies, such as
    WiMAX, and related services increased in 2008.


 


    Forecasted industry trends point to an overall decline in
    operator expenditures globally in 2009, as growth in UMTS and
    WiMAX are not expected to offset the decline in expenditures for
    legacy technologies, such as GSM and CDMA. Motorola expects the
    overall wireless network market to be down in 2009 compared to
    2008.


 


    In 2008, the home business benefited from continued spending by
    operators on our products due to the increase in the number of
    video and data subscribers and the deployment of advanced video
    platforms by cable operators for
    HD/DVR
    applications, as well as from spending by telecom operators
    upgrading their networks and adding video services. The growth
    of broadband connectivity is expected to continue as cable
    operators upgrade to DOCSIS 3.0 and telecom service providers
    continue to deploy very high speed digital subscriber line
    (“VDSL”) and PON data services. While continued growth
    is expected in these video and data markets, industry analysts
    have been reducing their outlooks for capital spending due to
    the ongoing uncertainty in the global economy.


 



    Our
    Strategy


 


    The Home and Networks Mobility segment is focused on leadership
    in next-generation broadband solutions to accelerate the
    delivery of personal media experiences. Key elements in the
    segment’s strategy include: (i) providing for seamless
    convergence of services and applications across delivery
    platforms within the home and across wireline and wireless
    networks, (ii) innovating and optimizing our end-to-end
    network portfolio, and (iii) developing new services that
    leverage our platforms to provide revenue generating
    applications and services to our operator customers while
    enabling consumers to experience media mobility. As part of our
    strategy, we have made and will continue to make strategic
    acquisitions.


 


    In the home business, we are focused on accelerating the rate of
    digital penetration by broadband operators in North America
    through an enhanced suite of digital entertainment devices.
    These products include basic models supporting the industry
    movement to all-digital delivery and advanced units supporting
    HD/DVR functions, as well as whole home video networking. We
    continue to invest to differentiate our products and services
    and add value for our customers in areas of software and
    applications, content on-demand and targeted advertising.


 


    We are capitalizing on telecom operators decisions to offer IPTV
    to their subscribers globally, with products that support
    delivery of video content using both copper-outside-plant and
    fiber-to-the-premises (“FTTP”) networks. The segment
    continues to provide video infrastructure, FTTP access network
    equipment, advanced digital entertainment devices and IP
    interactive set-tops to leading telecommunication companies
    around the world. During 2008, we completed the acquisition of
    the set-top box and associated chipset assets of Zhejung Dahua
    Digital Technology Co., LTD and Hangzhou Image Silicon, known
    collectively as Dahua Digital to increase our position in the
    rapidly growing cable market in China. We are also an industry
    leader in broadband data and voice products. We are delivering
    DOCSIS 3.0 channel bonding on our cable modem termination
    systems (“CMTS”) and cable modems, and commercially
    deploying our Gigabit PON platform.


 


    In the networks business, the segment provides equipment and
    services to over 125 GSM, CDMA, and iDEN networks globally. The
    segment is investing to be a leader in next-generation wireless
    broadband technologies with its WiMAX and LTE systems. WiMAX and
    LTE are evolved wireless broadband technologies that enable
    operators to provide improved data performance at lower
    operating cost. These technologies offer similar advantages for
    existing operators and emerging broadband service providers and
    vary in selection depending on the desired application and
    available spectrum. In 2008, the segment delivered WiMAX network
    equipment to over 25 WiMAX networks throughout the world. In
    addition, at the end of 2008, the segment was participating in
    over







Table of Contents





    8




    20 WiMAX trials globally, representing new business
    opportunities in 2009. As a leader in the baseline OFDM
    technology used for WiMAX, the segment is leveraging this
    expertise to accelerate our LTE product offering which will
    support both frequency division duplex (“FDD”) and
    time division duplex (“TDD”) modes. The LTE standard
    was ratified in December 2008, enabling operators and vendors to
    accelerate testing and deployment. The segment is participating
    in the LTE system architecture evolution trial initiative.


 



    Customers


 


    In 2008, aggregate net sales to the segment’s five largest
    customers, primarily large cable operators and telecommunication
    companies located throughout the world, represented
    approximately 45% of the segment’s net sales. The loss of
    any of the segment’s large customers could have a material
    adverse effect on the segment’s business. Further, because
    many of the segment’s contracts are long-term, the loss of
    a major customer could impact revenue and earnings over several
    quarters. The segment’s proportion of sales outside of
    North America increased to 50% in 2008, compared to 48% in 2007.
    This reflected 5% aggregate growth in net sales outside of North
    America and a 3% decline in net sales in North America.


 



    Competition


 


    The businesses in which the segment operates are highly
    competitive. The rapid technological changes occurring in each
    of the markets in which the segment competes are expected to
    lead to the entry of many new competitors. Competitive factors
    in the market for the segment’s products and systems
    include: technology offered; product and system performance;
    price; product features; quality; delivery and availability. We
    believe that we are competitively positioned because of our
    solid relationships with major communication system operators
    worldwide, our technological leadership and our new product
    development capabilities. Price is a major area of competition
    and often impacts margins for initial system bids, particularly
    in emerging markets. Time-to-market has also been an important
    competitive factor, especially for new systems and technologies.
    We compete with many equipment suppliers and several consumer
    electronics companies located throughout the world.


 


    In our home business, we compete worldwide in the market for
    digital entertainment devices and cable and wireline
    infrastructure equipment for broadband networks. Our largest
    competitor is Cisco. Based on 2008 annual sales, we are the
    leading provider of digital cable and IPTV set-tops worldwide.
    Our digital entertainment devices and infrastructure equipment
    compete with products from a number of different companies,
    including: (i) those that develop and sell products that
    are distributed by direct broadcast satellite service providers
    through retail channels, (ii) those that develop,
    manufacture and sell products of their own design, and
    (iii) those that license technology from us or other
    competitors.


 


    Traditionally, cable service providers have leased
    set-tops to
    their customers. FCC regulations requiring separation of
    security functionality from set-tops became effective in 2007.
    To meet this requirement, we provide security modules to cable
    operators for use with both our own and third-party set-tops, as
    well as in consumer products designed to accept them. The
    initial implementation limited consumer products to
    broadcast-delivered channels including premium services. A full
    two-way security interface specification that allows retail
    customers access to all programming available on the
    operator’s network without the need for a set-top box has
    been adopted by a few television manufacturers. They began
    shipping television sets that incorporate this capability in
    2008.


 


    We also compete worldwide in the market for broadband data and
    voice products. We believe that we are a leading provider of
    cable modems worldwide, competing with several consumer
    electronic companies and original design manufacturers worldwide.


 


    In the wireless networks market, there is widespread competition
    from numerous competitors, ranging from some of the world’s
    largest diversified companies to foreign telecommunications
    companies to many small, specialized firms. Ericsson is the
    market leader, followed by the Nokia-Siemens joint venture,
    Alcatel-Lucent, Huawei and Motorola, along with other vendors
    with similar market share. We believe we are a leading provider
    of WiMAX technologies. Many of the major competitors who compete
    across various wireless technologies also compete in WiMAX.


 


    The segment’s networks business is confronting several
    factors that could impact its business, including price
    competition, continuing consolidation among competitor
    telecommunications equipment providers, consolidation among
    customers, the potential impact of global economic conditions,
    and vendor financing by competitors as customers continue to
    look to vendors as an additional source of financing.







Table of Contents





    9



 



    Payment
    Terms


 


    Payment terms vary worldwide, depending on the arrangement. In
    North America, payment is generally due 30 to 60 days from
    the invoice date. In regions outside of North America, terms
    vary widely but are typically limited to no more than 90 days.
    Contracts for wireless networks typically include implementation
    milestones, such as delivery, installation and system
    acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to
    complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on the completion
    of the milestone.


 


    As required for competitive reasons, extended payment terms are
    provided to customers from time-to-time on a limited basis. The
    segment’s payment terms are consistent with industry
    practice, as many of our contracts are awarded through a
    competitive bid process. When required for competitive reasons,
    we may provide long-term financing in connection with equipment
    purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the purchase
    price.


 



    Regulatory
    Matters


 


    Many of our products are subject to regulation by the FCC in the
    United States and other communications regulatory agencies
    around the world. In addition, our customers, and their networks
    into which our products are incorporated, are subject to
    government regulation. Government regulatory policies affecting
    either the willingness or the ability of cable and telecom
    operators, wireless operators and wireline operators to offer
    certain services, or the terms on which these operators offer
    the services and conduct their business, may have a material
    adverse effect on the segment’s results. Motorola has
    developed products using trunking and data communications
    technologies to enhance spectral efficiencies. The growth and
    results of the wireless communications industry may be affected
    by regulations impacting access to allocated spectrum for
    wireless communications users, especially in urban areas where
    the spectrum is heavily used.


 


    Historically, reception of digital television programming from a
    cable broadband network has required a set-top with security
    technology. This security technology has limited the
    availability of set-tops to those manufactured by a few cable
    network manufacturers, including Motorola. FCC regulations
    requiring separation of security functionality from set-tops
    that are aimed at increasing competition and encouraging the
    sale of set-tops in the retail market became effective for most
    customers in 2007. Traditionally, cable service providers sold
    or leased their set-top to their customer. As the retail market
    develops for set-tops and televisions capable of accepting the
    security modules, sales of our set-tops which are sold to cable
    providers may be negatively impacted.


 


    The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing
    new wireless communications technologies to be developed and
    offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network
    systems, such as WiFi, and wide area network systems, such as
    WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also deregulated portions of
    their available spectrum to allow deployment of these and other
    technologies. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new
    opportunities for Motorola and our customers.


 


    As more fully described under “Enterprise Mobility
    Solutions — Regulatory Matters”, as television
    transmission and reception technology transitions from analog to
    more efficient digital modes, various countries around the world
    are examining, and in some cases already pursuing, the
    redevelopment of portions of the television spectrum. Certain
    segments of the spectrum that have historically been utilized
    for analog television have now been designated to support new
    commercial communications systems and, therefore, are expected
    to generate new business opportunities for Motorola in wireless
    and video technologies. In the U.S., the FCC conducted an
    auction of spectrum for the 700 MHz band that is expected
    to be reclaimed by the government on June 12, 2009. License
    for this spectrum may be used for flexible fixed, mobile and
    broadcast applications. Although the auction winners will
    determine the best utilization of the acquired spectrum, both
    LTE and WiMAX are candidates for technology selection. In
    addition, a contiguous portion of this spectrum has generated
    interest for mobile TV applications.


 



    Backlog


 


    The segment’s backlog was $2.3 billion at
    December 31, 2008, compared to $2.6 billion at
    December 31, 2007. The 2008 order backlog is believed to be
    generally firm and 100% of that amount is expected to be
    recognized as revenue during 2009. The forward-looking estimate
    of the firmness of such orders is subject to future events that
    may cause the amount recognized to change.


 



    Intellectual
    Property Matters


 


    Patent protection is extremely important to the segment’s
    operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents
    relating to its products, systems, technologies and
    manufacturing processes.







Table of Contents





    10



 


    The segment seeks to build upon our core enabling technologies,
    such as digital compression, encryption and conditional access
    systems, and wireless air-interface technology in order to lead
    worldwide growth in the market for wired and wireless
    communications networks. Our policy is to protect our
    proprietary position by, among other methods, filing
    U.S. and foreign patent applications to protect technology
    and improvements that we consider important to the development
    of our business. We also rely on our proprietary knowledge and
    ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our
    competitive position and will periodically seek to include our
    proprietary technologies in certain patent pools that support
    the implementation of standards. We are a founder of MPEG LA,
    the patent licensing authority established to foster broad
    deployment of MPEG-2-compliant systems, and we have recently
    joined the MPEG4-Visual patent pool as a licensor. In addition,
    we have licensed our digital conditional access technology,
    DigiCipher®

    II, to other equipment suppliers and continue our joint ventures
    with Comcast for development and licensing of conditional access
    technology.


 


    We also enter into other license agreements, both as licensor
    and licensee, covering certain products and processes with
    various companies. These license agreements require the payment
    of certain royalties that are not expected to be material to the
    segment’s financial results. Royalty and licensing fees
    vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the
    agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to
    licenses. Reference is made to the material under the heading
    “Other Information” for information relating to
    patents, trademarks and research and development activities with
    respect to this segment.


 



    Inventory,
    Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality


 


    The segment’s practice is to carry reasonable amounts of
    inventory in order to meet customer delivery requirements in a
    manner consistent with industry standards. At the end of 2008,
    the segment had higher inventory balances than at the end of
    2007, primarily due to a change in manufacturing strategy to
    increase in-house manufacturing and reduce outsourced
    manufacturing by third-party providers.


 


    Availability of materials and components required by the segment
    is relatively dependable, but fluctuations in supply and market
    demand could cause selective shortages and affect results. We
    currently procure certain materials and components from
    single-source
    vendors. Any material disruption from a single-source vendor may
    have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. If
    certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or
    insolvent as a result of the ongoing global financial crisis, it
    could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an
    increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact the
    segment’s financial results.


 


    Natural gas, electricity, and, to a lesser extent, oil are the
    primary sources of energy required for our manufacturing
    operations. Each of these resources are currently in generally
    adequate supply for the segment’s operations. In addition,
    the cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are
    dependent on world oil prices, which fluctuated significantly
    during 2008 and impacted our manufacturing and shipping costs.
    Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to the
    segment’s manufacturing facilities. However, difficulties
    in obtaining any of the aforementioned items or a significant
    cost increase could affect the segment’s results.


 


    Generally, we do not permit customers to return products, other
    than under standard warranty provisions. The segment has not
    experienced seasonal buying patterns for its products.


 



    Our
    Facilities/Manufacturing


 


    Our headquarters are located in Horsham, Pennsylvania. Our other
    major facilities are located in: Arlington Heights, Illinois;
    San Diego, California; Taipei, Taiwan; Bangalore, India; Beijing
    and Tianjin, China; and Reynosa, Mexico. In addition to our own
    manufacturing, we utilize non-affiliated electronics
    manufacturing suppliers and original design manufacturers,
    primarily in Asia, in order to enhance our ability to lower
    costs and/or
    deliver products that meet consumer demands.


 



    Enterprise
    Mobility Solutions Segment


 


    The Enterprise Mobility Solutions segment (“Enterprise
    Mobility Solutions” or the “segment”) designs,
    manufactures, sells, installs and services analog and digital
    two-way radio, voice and data communications products and
    systems for private networks, wireless broadband systems and
    end-to-end enterprise mobility systems for a wide range of
    enterprise markets, including government and public safety
    agencies (which, together with all sales to distributors of
    two-way communication products, is referred to as the
    “government and public safety market”), as well as
    retail, energy and utilities, transportation,
    manufacturing, healthcare and other commercial







Table of Contents





    11




    customers (which, collectively, are referred to as the
    “commercial enterprise market”). In 2008, the
    segment’s net sales represented 27% of the Company’s
    consolidated net sales.


 



    Principal
    Products and Services


 


    We are the world’s leading provider of advanced
    mission-critical and commercial enterprise mobility networks,
    services, applications and devices. In the government and public
    safety market, Motorola offers an extensive portfolio of
    standard products and services that meet evolving public safety
    and security needs, including products based on both TETRA
    (terrestrial trunked radio) and APCO 25 (Association for Public
    Safety Communications Officials) standards, with nearly
    80 years of experience in this space. In the commercial
    enterprise market, our products and systems provide better
    information at the point of business activity, connect
    seamlessly, and present tools to control the mobile experience.
    Our products include: two-way radios, mobile computing products,
    advanced data capture products including barcode scanners and
    imagers, radio frequency identification (“RFID”)
    infrastructure, software management, security tools and wireless
    infrastructure.


 


    The segment’s products and services are sold stand-alone or
    as an integrated solution through Motorola’s direct sales
    force and through independent and authorized distributors,
    dealers and value-added resellers, independent software vendors,
    original equipment manufacturers and service operators.
    Distributors and value-added resellers may provide a service or
    add components in order to resell our product to end users. The
    segment provides systems engineering, installation and other
    technical and systems management services to meet its customers
    particular needs. The customer may also choose to install and
    maintain the equipment with its own employees, or may obtain
    installation, service and parts from a network of the
    segment’s authorized service centers or from other
    non-Motorola service centers.


 



    Our
    Industry


 


    We compete in the mobile segment of the communications industry,
    providing wireless products and services to public safety,
    government and enterprise customers.


 


    Within our government and public safety market, interoperability
    and natural disaster preparedness continue to be important
    issues for our customers worldwide. Our extensive portfolio of
    products includes integration services, equipment and support
    packages for both of the major standards-based private network
    technologies, APCO 25 and TETRA, as well as wireless broadband
    applications. As new and better spectrum utilization evolves, we
    expect to see more demand and greater potential for broadband
    solutions and data applications, such as video surveillance and
    other data-based products, in 2009 and beyond. While
    mission-critical communications and homeland security remain
    high priorities for our customers, we have seen reduced spending
    in the construction and manufacturing markets due to the global
    market conditions, and expect this to continue in 2009.


 


    Within our commercial enterprise market, we believe there
    continues to be long-term opportunity for growth as the global
    workforce continues to become more mobile and the industries and
    markets that purchase our products continue to expand. The
    markets in which Motorola competes include mobile computing
    products and services, enterprise wireless infrastructure, bar
    code scanning, RFID products and services, and mobile network
    management platforms. Organizations looking to increase
    productivity and derive benefits from mobilizing their
    applications and workforces are driving adoption in this market.
    In 2009, given the current global economic conditions and
    customer capital expenditure constraints, we expect reduced
    spending in the commercial enterprise market.


 



    Our
    Strategy


 


    The segment’s strategy is to maintain our global leadership
    positions in the government and public safety and commercial
    enterprise markets through the continued delivery of mobile
    products and services and systems that meet our customers’
    demand for real-time information everywhere.


 


    Our strategy in the government and public safety market is to
    enable our customers to focus on their missions, not the
    technology. This is accomplished by providing mission-critical
    systems, seamless connectivity through highly reliable voice and
    data networks and a suite of advanced applications that provide
    real-time information to end users. Key objectives in
    maintaining our leadership position include: (i) continuing
    investment in our analog radio portfolio while leading the
    ongoing migration to digital products, (ii) leveraging our
    wireless broadband portfolio to drive growth and enter new
    markets, (iii) managing the potential public/private
    convergence of







Table of Contents





    12




    700MHz public safety systems in the U.S. and digital
    dividend spectrum worldwide, and (iv) continuing to lead
    the market in APCO 25 and TETRA standards-based voice and data
    networking systems around the world. We continue to actively
    manage our portfolio, investing to expand into attractive,
    complementary markets, and divesting non-strategic businesses.


 


    In the commercial enterprise market, our approach is to deliver
    products and services that are designed to empower the mobile
    workforce to increase productivity, drive cost effectiveness,
    and promote faster execution of critical business processes. Our
    solutions architecture focuses on three areas:
    (i) portfolio of devices and applications that provide real
    time information at the point of business activity,
    (ii) enterprise wireless networks that allocate seamless
    connectivity inside and outside the enterprise, and (iii) a
    set of management, security and mobility tools that provide a
    controlled deployment of the enterprise mobility applications.


 



    Customers


 


    Our products and services are sold worldwide to a diverse set of
    customers, including government and public safety agencies
    (police, fire, and emergency management services) and
    militaries, as well as retail, utility, transportation and
    logistics, manufacturing, wholesale and distribution, healthcare
    and other commercial customers. Our sales model emphasizes both
    direct sales by our in-house sales force and indirect sales
    through our channel of value-added resellers and distributors.
    We believe this dual sales approach allows us to meet customer
    needs effectively, build strong, lasting relationships and
    broaden our penetration across various markets. Our channel
    sales force extends the reach of our products and services to
    meet demand in market segments where our direct sales force does
    not sell. Resellers and distributors each have their own sales
    organizations which complement and extend our sales
    organization. With deep expertise about specific customers’
    operations, resellers are very effective in promoting sales of
    the Company’s products. Our independent software vendor and
    value-added resale channels offer customized applications that
    meet specific needs in each market segment we serve.


 


    Our largest customer is the U.S. Government, which
    represented approximately 8% of the segment’s net sales.
    The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect
    on the segment’s revenue and earnings over several
    quarters, because some of our contracts with the U.S. Government
    are long-term. Net sales to customers in North America
    represented 57% of the segment’s net sales in 2008.


 


    A majority of our sales are made directly by our in-house sales
    force, and the remainder of our sales are made through global
    resellers and distributors. Given the current global economic
    conditions, we expect reduced spending by certain customers,
    particularly retail, transportation and logistics, construction
    and manufacturing, to continue into 2009.


 



    Competition


 


    The businesses in which we operate are highly competitive.
    Continued evolution in the industry, as well as technological
    migration, is opening up the market to increased competition.
    Other key competitive factors include: technology offered;
    price; availability of vendor financing; product and system
    performance; product features, quality, availability and
    warranty; the quality and availability of service; company
    reputation; relationship with key customers; and time-to-market.
    We believe we are uniquely positioned in the industry due to our
    strong customer relationships, our technological leadership and
    capabilities, and our comprehensive range of offerings.


 


    The segment experiences widespread competition in the government
    and public safety market from a growing number of new and
    existing competitors, including large system integrators. In
    this market, the segment provides communications and information
    systems compliant with both APCO 25 and TETRA industry digital
    standards. Major competitors include: M/A-Com, EADS, Kenwood, EF
    Johnson and Cisco.


 


    Large system integrators are seeking to move further into the
    public safety area, specifically in the federal government
    market. Competitors in this segment, including the Company, may
    also serve as subcontractors to large system integrators and are
    selected based on a number of competitive factors and customer
    requirements. Where favorable to the Company, we may partner
    with large system integrators to make available our portfolio of
    advanced mission-critical services, applications and devices.


 


    Several other competitive factors may have an impact on the
    business, including: the consolidation among telecommunications
    equipment providers, evolving developments in the 700 MHz
    band, and increasing encroachment by broadband and IP solution
    providers and new low-tier entrants. As demand for
    fully-integrated







Table of Contents





    13




    voice, data, and broadband systems continues, the segment may
    face additional competition from public telecommunications
    carriers.


 


    Within the commercial enterprise market, many firms are engaged
    in the manufacturing and marketing of mobile computing devices,
    products in bar code reading equipment and wireless networks.
    Numerous companies, including present manufacturers of scanners,
    lasers, optical instruments, microprocessors, wireless networks,
    notebook computers, handheld devices and telephonic and other
    communication devices, have the technical potential to compete
    with the business. Competitors such as Intermec, Honeywell and
    Cisco deliver products in certain parts of the commercial
    enterprise market.


 



    Payment
    Terms


 


    Payment terms vary worldwide, depending on the arrangement.
    Generally, contract payment terms range from 30 to 45 days
    from the invoice date within North America and are typically
    limited to 90 days in regions outside of North America. A
    portion of the contracts in the government and public safety
    market include implementation milestones, such as delivery,
    installation and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to
    180 days to complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent
    on completion of the milestone.


 


    We generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required
    for competitive reasons, we may provide long-term financing in
    connection with equipment purchases. Financing may cover all or
    a portion of the purchase price.


 



    Regulatory
    Matters


 


    The use of wireless voice, data and video communications systems
    requires radio spectrum, which is regulated by governmental
    agencies throughout the world. In the U.S., the FCC and the
    National Telecommunications and Information Administration
    (“NTIA”) regulate spectrum use by non-federal entities
    and federal entities, respectively. Similarly, countries around
    the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and
    implement the rules for use of the radio spectrum, pursuant to
    their respective national laws and international coordination
    under the International Telecommunications Union
    (“ITU”). Consequently, the business and results of
    this segment could be affected by the rules and regulations
    adopted by the FCC, NTIA or regulatory agencies in other
    countries from time to time. The availability of additional
    radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities.
    Regulatory changes in current spectrum bands may also provide
    opportunities or may require modifications to some of our
    products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed.


 


    The segment manufactures and markets products in spectrum bands
    already made available by regulatory bodies. These include voice
    and data infrastructure, mobile radios and portable or handheld
    units. Our products span the public safety, enterprise,
    commercial and consumer markets and operate both on licensed and
    unlicensed spectrum. In addition, new spectrum bands and
    modified regulations provide possible opportunities for new
    business.


 


    As television transmission and reception technology transitions
    from analog to more efficient digital modes, various countries
    around the world are examining, and in some cases already
    pursuing, the redevelopment of portions of the television
    spectrum. In the U.S., pursuant to federal legislation, analog
    television stations must cease operation in the broadcast
    television spectrum by June 12, 2009. As a result of this
    transition, 108 MHz of spectrum historically used for
    broadcast television is being redeveloped for new uses (the
    so-called “digital dividend” spectrum), including
    broadband and narrowband wireless communications. This
    soon-to-be available spectrum can provide new opportunities for
    Motorola and for our competitors. Under rules adopted by the
    FCC, this portion of the spectrum under redevelopment (the
    700 MHz band) will support new commercial and public safety
    communications systems. Licenses for the majority of this
    spectrum have already been issued and as of February 2009, over
    40 public safety customers are already implementing narrowband
    700 MHz systems in areas where television incumbency is not
    an issue. Additional agencies are expected to begin deploying
    systems once broadcast television is cleared from the
    700 MHz band in mid-2009. The FCC is also making provisions
    for a 700 MHz band nationwide public safety broadband
    network that may be built over the next
    10-15 years.
    Canada also released a consultation requesting industry input on
    making additional spectrum available for public safety use in
    the 700 MHz band. Segments of the spectrum have been
    auctioned for commercial use and Motorola could see new business
    opportunities as auction winners implement broadband systems on
    that spectrum. However, since many analog television operations
    will continue transmitting in this spectrum until June 12,
    2009, it is premature for auction winners to deploy in most
    markets. This delay may temporarily delay opportunities for the
    Company.







Table of Contents





    14



 


    In addition to reallocating TV spectrum at 700 MHz for
    public safety and commercial use, in November 2008 the FCC
    issued a decision to open unused portions of the television
    spectrum below 700 MHz for unlicensed uses, including
    broadband. The amount and specific location in the TV band of
    this “whitespace” spectrum available varies by
    geographic location. Also, its use is governed by technical
    rules adopted to protect incumbent operations from interference.
    For example, the FCC decision relies on geolocation, a
    technology recommended by Motorola, to protect incumbent
    television stations. This decision to open the TV whitespace
    spectrum provides additional potential opportunities for
    wireless broadband systems. The FCC decision also advised that
    these initial TV whitespace rules are conservative with regard
    to protection of broadcast incumbents and that relaxation to
    provide greater TV whitespace opportunities may be possible once
    additional experience is gained.


 


    Internationally, the ITU World Radio Conference held in Geneva
    in November 2007 identified spectrum that could be made
    available as part of a “digital dividend” as
    television transitions from analog to digital technology
    globally. Countries around the world are studying the potential
    size, timing and use of this potentially available spectrum. In
    November 2007, the European Commission issued a statement
    promoting a common European approach to its use. The United
    Kingdom has already decided to redevelop spectrum as a result of
    the digital transition and is making available 112 MHz of
    spectrum through auctions. Canada has released a consultation
    requesting industry input on making additional spectrum
    available for public safety use in the 700 MHz band. A
    number of other countries around the world have also indicated
    their intention to pursue the availability of digital dividend
    spectrum.


 


    In addition, some of our operations use substances regulated
    under various federal, state, local and international laws
    governing the environment and worker health and safety,
    including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the
    ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous
    substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites.
    Certain of our products are subject to various federal, state,
    local and international laws governing chemical substances in
    electronic products.


 



    Backlog


 


    The segment’s backlog was $2.4 billion as of
    December 31, 2008, compared to $2.3 billion as of
    December 31, 2007. The 2008 order backlog is believed to be
    generally firm and approximately 70% of that amount is expected
    to be recognized as revenue during 2009. The forward-looking
    estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future
    events that may cause the amount recognized to change.


 



    Intellectual
    Property Matters


 


    Patent protection is extremely important to the segment’s
    operations. The segment has an extensive U.S. and
    international portfolio of patents relating to its products,
    systems, technologies and manufacturing processes, including
    recent research developments in scanning, information
    collection, network communications and network management. We
    have also filed additional patent applications in the
    U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as well as in foreign
    patent offices.


 


    The segment licenses some of its patents to third parties and
    this revenue is not significant. Motorola is also licensed to
    use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing fees
    vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the
    agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to licenses.


 


    We actively participate in the development of open standards for
    interoperable, mission-critical digital two-way radio systems.
    We have published our technology and licensed patents to
    signatories of the industry’s two primary memorandums of
    understanding defined by the Telecommunications Industry
    Association (“TIA”), Project 25, and European
    Telecommunications Standards Institute (“ETSI”), TETRA.


 


    Notwithstanding the expiration of certain patents and the
    resulting potential for increased competition for some of our
    products in the future, we believe that our extensive patent
    portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive
    advantage. Furthermore, we believe we are not dependent upon a
    single patent, or a few patents. Our success depends more upon
    our proprietary know-how, innovative skills, technical
    competence and marketing abilities. In addition, because of
    changing technology, our present intention is not to rely
    primarily on patents or other intellectual property rights to
    protect or establish our market position. However, the segment
    continues to litigate against competitors to enforce its
    intellectual property rights in certain technologies and is
    currently involved in several such lawsuits. Reference is made
    to the material under the heading “Other Information”
    for information relating to patents, trademarks and research and
    development activities with respect to this segment.







Table of Contents





    15



 



    Inventory,
    Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality


 


    The segment’s practice is to carry reasonable amounts of
    inventory to meet customers’ delivery requirements in a
    manner consistent with industry standards. The segment provides
    custom products which requires the stocking of inventories and
    large varieties of piece parts and replacement parts in order to
    meet delivery and warranty requirements. To the extent
    suppliers’ product life cycles are shorter than the
    segment’s, stocking of lifetime buy inventories is required
    to meet long-term warranty and contractual requirements. In
    addition, replacement parts are stocked for delivery on customer
    demand within a short delivery cycle. At the end of 2008, the
    segment had a higher inventory balance than at the end of 2007,
    primarily as a result of the Company acquiring a controlling
    interest in Vertex Standard Co, Ltd., in January 2008.


 


    Availability of materials and components required by the segment
    is relatively dependable, but fluctuations in supply and market
    demand could cause selective shortages and affect results. We
    currently procure certain materials and components from
    single-source vendors. A material disruption from a
    single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact on our
    results of operations. If certain key suppliers were to become
    capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the ongoing
    global financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or
    interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies
    and adversely impact the segment’s financial results.


 


    Natural gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the
    primary sources of energy for our manufacturing operations,
    which are currently in adequate supply. In addition, the cost to
    operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world
    oil prices, which fluctuated significantly during 2008 and
    impacted our manufacturing and shipping costs. Labor is
    generally available in reasonable proximity to the
    segment’s manufacturing facilities. However, difficulties
    in obtaining any of these items or a significant cost increase
    could affect the segment’s results.


 


    Generally, the segment’s contracts do not include a right
    of return, other than for standard warranty provisions. For new
    product introductions in our government and public safety
    market, we may enter into milestone contracts providing that the
    product could be returned if we do not achieve the milestones.
    Due to buying patterns in the markets we serve, sales tend to be
    somewhat higher in the fourth quarter.


 



    Our
    Facilities/Manufacturing


 


    Our primary offices are located in Schaumburg, Illinois and
    Holtsville, New York. Our other major facilities are located in:
    Penang, Malaysia; Reynosa, Mexico; Krakow, Poland; Berlin,
    Germany; and Arad, Israel. In addition to our own manufacturing,
    we utilize non-affiliated electronics manufacturing suppliers
    and distribution and logistics services providers in order to
    enhance our ability to lower costs and deliver products that
    meet consumer demands.


 



    Other
    Information


 


    Financial Information About
    Segments.  The response to this section of
    Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 12,
    “Information by Segment and Geographic Region,” of
    Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data of this document.


 


    Customers.  Motorola has
    several large customers, the loss of one or more of which could
    have a material adverse effect on the Company. In 2008,
    aggregate net sales to the Company’s five largest customers
    represented approximately 25% of the Company’s sales. No
    single customer accounted for more than 10% of the
    Company’s net sales in 2008.


 


    Approximately 2% of Motorola’s net sales in 2008 were to
    various branches and agencies, including the armed services, of
    the U.S. Government. All contracts with the
    U.S. Government are subject to cancellation at the
    convenience of the Government.


 


    Government contractors, including Motorola, are routinely
    subjected to numerous audits and investigations, which may be
    either civil or criminal in nature. The consequences of these
    audits and investigations may include administrative action to
    suspend business dealings with the contractor and to exclude it
    from receiving new business. In addition, Motorola, like other
    contractors, reviews aspects of its government contracting
    operations, and, where appropriate, takes corrective actions and
    makes voluntary disclosures to the U.S. Government. These
    audits and investigations could adversely affect Motorola’s
    ability to obtain new business from the U.S. Government.







Table of Contents





    16



 


    Backlog.  Motorola’s
    aggregate backlog position for all Motorola segments, as of the
    end of the last two fiscal years was approximately as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    December 31, 2008



 


    $


    5.0 billion


 





    December 31, 2007



 


    $


    5.5 billion


 








 


    Except as previously discussed in this Item 1, the orders
    supporting the 2008 backlog amounts shown in the foregoing table
    are believed to be generally firm, and approximately 90% of the
    backlog on hand at December 31, 2008 is expected to be
    recognized as revenue in 2009. The forward-looking estimate of
    the firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may
    cause the amount recognized to change.


 


    Research and
    Development.  Motorola’s business
    segments participate in very competitive industries with
    constant changes in technology. Throughout its history, Motorola
    has relied, and continues to rely, primarily on its research and
    development (“R&D”) programs for the development
    of new products, and on its production engineering capabilities
    for the improvement of existing products. Technical data and
    product application ideas are exchanged among Motorola’s
    business segments on a regular basis. Management believes,
    looking forward, that Motorola’s commitment to R&D
    programs should allow each of its segments to remain competitive.


 


    R&D expenditures relating to new product development or
    product improvement were $4.1 billion in 2008, compared to
    $4.4 billion in 2007 and $4.1 billion in 2006.
    R&D expenditures decreased 7% in 2008 as compared to 2007,
    after increasing 8% in 2007 as compared to 2006. Motorola
    continues to believe that a strong commitment to research and
    development is required to drive long-term growth. As of
    December 31, 2008, approximately 27,000 professional
    employees were engaged in such R&D activities.


 


    Patents and
    Trademarks.  Motorola seeks to obtain patents
    and trademarks to protect our proprietary position whenever
    possible and practical. As of December 31, 2008, Motorola,
    Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries owned approximately 9,907
    utility and design patents in the U.S. and 12,793 patents in
    foreign countries. These foreign patents are mostly counterparts
    of Motorola’s U.S. patents, but a number result from
    research conducted outside the U.S. and are originally filed in
    the country of origin. During 2008, Motorola, Inc. and its
    wholly owned subsidiaries were granted 644 U.S. utility and
    design patents. Many of the patents owned by Motorola are used
    in its operations or licensed for use by others, and Motorola is
    licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and
    licensing fees vary from year to year and are subject to the
    terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products
    subject to licenses.


 


    Environmental
    Quality.  During 2008, compliance with
    federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of
    materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
    protection of the environment, did not have a material effect on
    capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of
    Motorola.


 


    Employees.  At
    December 31, 2008, there were approximately 64,000
    employees of Motorola and its subsidiaries, compared to
    66,000 employees of Motorola and its subsidiaries at
    December 31, 2007.


 


    Financial Information About Geographic
    Areas.  The response to this section of
    Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 11,
    “Commitments and Contingencies” and Note 12,
    “Information by Segment and Geographic Region” of
    Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data of this document, the “Results of
    Operations—2008 Compared to 2007” and “Results of
    Operations — 2007 Compared to 2006” sections of
    Part II, “Item 7: Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” and “Item A: Risk Factors” of
    this document.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We make available free of charge through our website,
    www.motorola.com/investor, our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and all
    amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as
    reasonably practicable after such material is electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”). Our reports are also available
    free of charge on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.
    Also available free of charge on our website are the
    following corporate governance documents:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Motorola, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation








     
        • 

    
    Motorola, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws








     
        • 

    
    Motorola, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines








     
        • 

    
    Motorola, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines










Table of Contents





    17








    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola, Inc. Board of
    Directors








     
        • 

    
    Motorola Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all
    Motorola employees, including the principal executive officers,
    the principal financial officer and the controller (principal
    accounting officer)








     
        • 

    
    Audit and Legal Committee Charter








     
        • 

    
    Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter








     
        • 

    
    Governance and Nominating Committee Charter





 


    All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also
    be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations,
    Motorola, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road,
    Schaumburg, Illinois 60196,
    E-mail:
    investors@motorola.com. Our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and Definitive Proxy Statement may also be requested in hardcopy
    by clicking on “Printed Materials” at
    www.motorola.com/investor. Our Internet website and the
    information contained therein or incorporated therein are not
    intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.







Table of Contents





    18



 




    
    



    
    Item 1A: 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We wish to caution the reader that the following important
    risk factors, and those risk factors described elsewhere in this
    report or our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings,
    could cause our actual results to differ materially from those
    stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document
    and elsewhere. These risks are not presented in order of
    importance or probability of occurrence.


 


    We have had substantial operating losses in 2008 and 2007 and
    may continue to incur losses as we reposition our Mobile Devices
    business.


 


    In 2008 and 2007, Motorola had substantial operating losses as a
    result of the financial performance of our Mobile Devices
    business. While we have plans in place intended to improve the
    performance of this business, we cannot be certain that we will
    be successful or that we will be profitable in 2009.


 


    The wireless mobile handset market experienced slowing growth
    in 2008 and the market is expected to decline in 2009 which
    could negatively impact transition plans for our Mobile Devices
    business.


 


    In 2009, worldwide wireless handset industry unit shipments are
    expected to decline by approximately 10%. This would be the
    first annual decline in industry handset unit shipments since
    2001. A declining mobile handset market may make it more
    difficult to improve our business, due to excess manufacturing
    capacity, increased price competition and other market factors.


 


    We have lost significant market share in our Mobile Devices
    businesses and such loss has negatively impacted our performance
    and may continue to negatively impact our financial results.


 


    Our share of the worldwide wireless handset market has declined
    significantly in the last two years, from approximately 22% in
    2006, to 14% in 2007, to 8% in 2008. While we reduced our costs
    during this period of time, these market share declines and
    resulting volume reductions have had an adverse effect on our
    results of operations. If market share in our Mobile Devices
    business continues to decline, it will adversely impact our
    financial results.


 


    The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions
    makes budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce demand
    for our products.


 


    Current conditions in the domestic and world economies are very
    uncertain. The global financial crisis, as well as ongoing
    political conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere, have
    created many economic and political uncertainties that have
    impacted worldwide markets. As a result, it is difficult to
    estimate changes in various parts of the world economy,
    including the markets in which we participate. Because all
    components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon
    estimates in the markets we serve and demand for our products,
    the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future
    income and expenditures difficult.


 


    We have manufacturing operations and engineering resources in
    Israel that could be disrupted as a result of hostilities in the
    region. We also sell our products and services throughout the
    Middle East and demand for our products and services could be
    adversely impacted by hostilities in this region.


 


    The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global
    conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts and public
    health issues has created worldwide uncertainties that have
    negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact,
    demand for certain of our products.


 


    We operate in highly competitive markets and our financial
    results will be affected if we are not able to compete
    effectively.


 


    The markets for our products are highly competitive with respect
    to, among other factors: pricing, product features, product and
    service quality, and the time required to introduce new products
    and services. We are constantly exposed to the risk that our
    competitors may implement new technologies before we do, or may
    offer lower prices, additional products or services or other
    incentives that we cannot or will not offer. We can give no
    assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against
    existing or future competitors.


 


    Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new
    products and technologies and our results can be impacted by the
    effectiveness of our significant investments in new products and
    technologies.


 


    The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly
    changing technologies, frequent new product introductions, short
    product life cycles and evolving industry standards. We face
    intense competition in these







Table of Contents





    19




    markets from both established companies and new entrants.
    Product life cycles can be short and new products are expensive
    to develop and bring to market. Our success depends, in
    substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of
    new products and upgrades of current products to comply with
    emerging industry standards and to address competing
    technological and product developments carried out by our
    competitors. The research and development of new,
    technologically-advanced products is a complex and uncertain
    process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as
    well as the accurate anticipation of technology and market
    trends. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not
    become widely accepted or are not commercially viable. In
    addition, our products may contain defects or errors that are
    detected only after deployment. If our products are not
    competitive or do not work properly, our business will suffer.


 


    Our results are subject to risks related to our significant
    investment in developing and introducing new products, such as:
    advanced wireless handsets, including smartphones; WiMAX, LTE
    and other advanced technologies for wireless broadband networks;
    products for transmission of telephony and high-speed data over
    hybrid fiber coaxial cable systems; integrated digital radios;
    and integrated public safety systems. These risks include:
    (i) difficulties and delays in the development, production,
    testing and marketing of products; (ii) customer acceptance
    of products; (iii) the development of, approval and
    compliance with industry standards; (iv) the significant
    amount of resources we must devote to the development of new
    technology; and (v) the ability to differentiate our
    products and compete with other companies in the same markets.


 


    We face a number of risks related to the ongoing financial
    crisis and severe tightening in the global credit markets.


 


    The ongoing global financial crisis affecting the banking system
    and financial markets has resulted in a severe tightening in the
    worldwide credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many
    financial markets and extreme volatility in credit and equity
    markets. This financial crisis has impacted, and could continue
    to impact, Motorola’s business in a number of ways,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Potential Deferment or Cancellation of Purchases and Orders
    by Customers:  Uncertainty about current and
    future global economic conditions may cause, and in some cases
    has caused, consumers, businesses and governments to defer or
    cancel purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash
    availability and declining consumer confidence. If future demand
    for our products declines, it will adversely impact our
    financial results.




 



     
        • 

    
    Customers’ Inability to Obtain Financing to Make
    Purchases from Motorola
    and/or
    Maintain Their Business:  Some of our customers
    require substantial financing in order to fund their operations
    and make purchases from Motorola. The inability of these
    customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of
    our products
    and/or meet
    their payment obligations to us could have, and in some cases
    has had, an adverse impact on our financial results. In
    addition, if the financial crisis results in insolvencies for
    our customers, it will adversely impact our financial results.




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased Requests by Customers for Vendor Financing by
    Motorola:  Certain of the Company’s
    customers, particularly, but not limited to, those who purchase
    large infrastructure systems, request that their suppliers
    provide financing in connection with equipment purchases. In
    response to the recent tightening in the credit markets, these
    types of requests continue to increase in volume and scope.
    Motorola has increased its commitments to provide financing in
    light of these requests and a continuation of the current credit
    crisis could force Motorola to choose between further increasing
    its level of vendor financing or potentially losing sales to
    these customers.




 



     
        • 

    
    Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on
    Third-Party Dealers, Distributors and
    Retailers:  A number of our businesses make sales
    in certain regions through third-party dealers, distributors and
    retailers. Although many of these third parties have significant
    operations and maintain access to available credit, others are
    smaller and more likely to be impacted by the significant
    decrease in available credit that has resulted from the current
    financial crisis. If credit pressures or other financial
    difficulties result in insolvency for important third parties
    and Motorola is unable to successfully transition
    end-customers
    to purchase our products from other third parties or from us
    directly, it will adversely impact our financial results.




 



     
        • 

    
    Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Key
    Suppliers:  Our ability to meet customers’
    demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and
    adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components
    from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only
    from a single source or limited sources. If certain key
    suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a
    result of the financial crisis, it could result in a reduction
    or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of










Table of Contents





    20




    supplies and adversely impact our financial results. In
    addition, credit constraints at key suppliers have resulted in
    accelerated payment of accounts payable by Motorola, impacting
    our cash flow. This trend could continue and may even
    accelerate, impacting our cash flow.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increased Risk of Losses or Impairment Charges Related to
    Debt Securities and Equity and Other Investments Held by
    Motorola:  The current volatility in the financial
    markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that
    the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity
    investments will differ significantly from the fair values
    currently assigned to them. In 2008, Motorola has recognized
    $186 million of impairment charges and $101 million of
    temporary unrealized losses on debt securities held in its Sigma
    Fund, a broadly diversified portfolio of highly rated,
    short-duration debt securities. There can be no assurance that
    the value of Sigma Fund investments will not decline further in
    the future.





 


    Also, many of the Company’s equity investments are in
    early-stage technology companies and, therefore, may be
    particularly subject to substantial price volatility and
    heightened risk from the tightening in the credit markets.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increased Risk of Financial Counterparty Failures Could
    Negatively Impact our Financial Position:  The
    Company uses financial instruments to reduce its overall
    exposure to the effects of currency fluctuations on cash flows.
    The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of
    nonperformance by the counterparties to these financial
    instruments. In order to minimize this risk, the contracts are
    distributed among several leading financial institutions, all of
    whom presently have investment grade credit ratings. Although
    the Company has not experienced and does not anticipate
    nonperformance by its counterparties, in light of the ongoing
    threats to financial institutions from the global financial
    crisis, there can be no assurance of performance by the
    counterparties to these financial instruments.




 



     
        • 

    
    Returns on Pension and Retirement Plan Assets and Interest
    Rate Changes Could Affect Our Earnings in Future
    Periods:  The funding position of our pension
    plans is impacted by the performance of the financial markets,
    particularly the equity markets, and the discount rates used to
    calculate our pension obligations for funding and expense
    purposes. Recent significant declines in the financial markets
    have negatively impacted the value of the assets in the
    Company’s pension plans. In addition, lower bond yields may
    reduce our discount rates resulting in increased pension
    contributions and expense.





 


    Funding obligations are determined under government regulations
    and are measured each year based on the value of assets and
    liabilities on a specific date. If the financial markets do not
    provide the long-term returns that are expected under the
    governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make
    larger contributions. The equity markets can be, and recently
    have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future
    contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively
    short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can
    impact our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate
    environment, the likelihood of higher contributions in the
    future increases.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Impact on Ability to Sell Receivables:  The
    Company sells accounts receivable and long-term receivables to
    third parties. Sales are made both on a one-time, non-recourse
    basis and under committed facilities that involve contractual
    commitments from third parties to purchase qualifying
    receivables up to monetary limits. These sales of receivables
    provide the Company the ability to accelerate cash flow when it
    is prudent to do so. The ability to sell (or “factor”)
    receivables, particularly under committed facilities, is often
    subject to the credit quality of the obligor and the
    Company’s ability to obtain sufficient levels of credit
    insurance from independent insurance companies. In early 2009, a
    $400 million committed facility expired and was not
    renewed. Although the Company is negotiating replacement
    facilities, there is no assurance that the Company will be able
    to implement these facilities. Reduction in the volume of
    committed receivable purchasing facilities could limit the
    Company’s ability to sell receivables in the future.
    Further, the severe tightening in the credit markets due to the
    ongoing global financial crisis could limit the Company’s
    ability to sell receivables in the future, particularly if the
    creditworthiness of our customers declines.




 



     
        • 

    
    Impact on Ability to Purchase Sufficient Credit
    Insurance:  We purchase a large amount of credit
    insurance to mitigate some of our credit risks. In particular,
    our ability to sell receivables, particularly under committed
    receivables facilities, is often subject to obtaining sufficient
    levels of credit insurance from independent insurance companies.
    Accordingly, our ability to sell certain of our receivables, and
    therefore our cash flows, could be negatively impacted if we are
    not able to continue to purchase credit insurance in certain
    countries and in sufficient quantities. Although credit
    insurance remains generally available to the Company, it has
    become more expensive to obtain and often requires higher
    deductibles than in the past.










Table of Contents





    21






    
    
    



     
    

    
    There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to
    obtain sufficient quantities of credit insurance in the
    necessary locations in the future.





 


    We face a number of risks related to the recent downgrade of
    the Company’s long-term debt to non-investment grade by one
    credit rating agency:


 


    In December, Standard and Poor’s downgraded the
    Company’s long-term debt to BB+ (one level below investment
    grade) from BBB and removed the short-term rating. In February
    2009, Fitch Ratings downgraded the Company’s long-term debt
    to BBB- from BBB and downgraded the short-term debt rating to
    F-3 from F-2. Also in February 2009, Moody’s Investor
    Service downgraded the Company’s long-term debt to Baa3
    from Baa2 and downgraded the short-term debt rating to P-3 from
    P-2. Since the Company has a non-investment grade rating from
    one rating agency, it is referred to as a “split rated
    credit”.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our access to short-term borrowing in the commercial paper
    market is very limited:  While the Company did not
    issue commercial paper in 2008, if the Company needs access to
    very short-term borrowing, it may no longer be able to access
    the unsecured commercial paper market because of its
    P-3/F-3
    short-term
    ratings. Other sources of short-term borrowing may be more
    limited, if available at all, and will have higher cost to
    borrow than the commercial paper market.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our access to the long-term debt market may be
    limited:  As a split rated credit, our ability to
    issue long-term debt is more limited and the market into which
    split rated debt is offered can be very volatile and can be
    unavailable for periods of time. As a result, it may be more
    difficult for us to quickly issue long-term debt and any debt
    issued may be more costly. These factors may impact our
    operating flexibility.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to provide performance bonds, bid bonds, standby
    letters of credit and surety bonds could be severely
    limited:  Commercial contracts with
    Motorola’s customers often require performance bonds, bid
    bonds, standby letters of credit and surety bonds (collectively,
    referred to as “Performance Bonds”) to be issued on
    behalf of the Company by banks and insurance companies. As a
    split rated credit, issuers of these Performance Bonds may be
    less likely to provide Performance Bonds on the Company’s
    behalf in the future, unless the Company provides collateral.
    These limitations on issuance may apply to the renewal and
    extension of existing Performance Bonds, as well as the issuance
    of new Performance Bonds. Such collateral requirements could
    result in less liquidity for other operational needs. Also, as a
    result of the Company’s current credit ratings, there has
    been an increase in the cost of issuance of Performance Bonds.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to hedge foreign exchange risk could be severely
    limited:  As a split rated credit, counterparties
    may be unwilling to provide trading and derivative lines for the
    Company without cash collateral. This would severely limit our
    ability to reduce volatility in earnings and cash flow. Should
    cash collateral be provided, less liquidity would be available
    for operational needs.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to fund our foreign affiliates could be
    limited:  The Company relies on uncommitted lines
    of credit from banks to provide daylight overdraft, short-term
    loans and other sources of liquidity for foreign affiliates. As
    a split rated credit, lenders may be unwilling to provide credit
    to our foreign affiliates. This could result in the Company
    using U.S. cash to make loans to these affiliates or
    provide permanent equity where loans are not possible.




 



     
        • 

    
    Trade terms with suppliers could become less
    favorable:  Given the Company’s split rating,
    suppliers may require letters of credit, cash collateral or
    other forms of security as part of standard payment conditions.
    This could result in reduced liquidity and less leverage in
    pricing negotiations.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to sell receivables could be
    impacted:  As a split rated credit, the conditions
    placed on us by the parties that we sell our receivables to will
    become more stringent. If we are unable, or choose not to, meet
    these new conditions, our ability to sell the receivables will
    be negatively impacted.





 


    We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility
    if we are not able to meet the conditions for borrowing required
    by our facility.


 


    Our existing $2 billion five-year domestic syndicated
    revolving credit facility contains various conditions, covenants
    and representations with which we must be in compliance in order
    to borrow funds. Although there are no borrowings outstanding
    under the facility, if we wish to borrow under this facility in
    the future, there can be no assurance that we will be in
    compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations.







Table of Contents





    22



 


    We may not generate sufficient future taxable income, which
    may require additional deferred tax asset valuation
    allowances.


 


    If the Company is unable to generate sufficient future taxable
    income in the U.S. and certain other jurisdictions, or if there
    is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the
    time period within which the underlying temporary differences
    become taxable or deductible, the Company could be required to
    increase its valuation allowances against its deferred tax
    assets resulting in an increase in its effective tax rate and an
    adverse impact on future operating results.


 


    We may be required to record additional goodwill or
    amortizable intangible assets impairment charges, which could
    result in an additional significant charge to earnings.


 


    Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our
    amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or
    changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be
    recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least
    annually. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether
    goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a
    decline in the Company’s stock price or market
    capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows, and
    slower growth rates in our industry. During 2008, the Company
    recorded goodwill impairment charges of $1.6 billion and
    intangible assets impairment charges of $129 million. The
    goodwill impairment charges resulted from lower asset values in
    the overall market and the impact of the macroenvironment on the
    Company’s near-term forecasts. The intangible asset
    impairments resulted from a change in a technology platform
    strategy. Further declines in the Company’s stock price,
    the markets or reductions in the Company’s future cash flow
    estimates and future operating results may require the Company
    to record significant additional goodwill or intangible asset
    impairment charges in our financial statements in future
    periods, negatively impacting our financial results.


 


    Our strategy to separate our businesses into two
    publicly-traded companies may have an adverse effect on business
    operations and our assets.


 


    The Company has announced a strategy to separate into two
    publicly-traded companies in the future, if and when market and
    businesses conditions support a separation. There are various
    uncertainties and risks relating to the proposed separation of
    our businesses into two publicly-traded companies, which are
    enhanced because we have not announced a target date for the
    separation or determined the structure that will best serve the
    strategic realignment. The uncertainties and risks that could
    have an adverse effect on our business operations or assets
    include: (i) the distraction of management and disruption
    of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    operating results; (ii) perceived uncertainties as to our
    future direction may result in increased difficulties in
    recruiting and retaining employees, particularly highly
    qualified employees; (iii) perceived uncertainties as to
    our future direction may have a negative impact on our
    relationships with our customers, suppliers, vendors and
    partners and may result in the loss of business opportunities;
    (iv) the process of exploring strategic alternatives may be
    time consuming and expensive and may result in the loss of
    business opportunities; and (v) we may not be able to
    successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic alternative
    undertaken by us.


 


    Our future financial results may be negatively impacted if we
    do not execute on our hardware and software strategy for our
    Mobile Devices business.


 


    As part of our ongoing effort to improve the product portfolio
    of our Mobile Devices business, we are in the process of
    rationalizing our hardware and software platforms to reduce the
    complexity of our product platforms and system architecture to
    lower our cost to produce devices and to enable richer consumer
    experiences. Failure to execute these rationalization plans in a
    timely and effective manner may cause us to be competitively
    disadvantaged in many areas, including but not limited to, cost,
    time to market and the ability to
    ramp-up
    production in a timely fashion with acceptable quality and
    improved/additional features.


 


    If our operating system strategy is not successful, our
    Mobile Devices business could be negatively impacted.


 


    We have made a strategic decision to use third-party
    and/or open
    source operating systems, such as Google’s Android
    operating system and Microsoft’s Windows Mobile operating
    system in our wireless products. As a result of this, we are at
    risk due to our dependency on third parties continued
    development of operating systems and third parties’
    software application ecosystem infrastructures. With respect to
    Google’s Android operating system which is a newer
    operating system for wireless handsets, in the event that
    Google’s Android team no longer develops the Android code
    base and this development is not taken up by the open source
    community, this would increase the burden of development on
    Motorola. From an overall risk perspective, the industry is
    currently engaged in an extremely competitive phase with respect
    to operating system platforms and software generally.







Table of Contents





    23




    Android is viewed as a competitive platform in the Linux and
    smartphone categories. If Android fails to gain operator
    and/or
    developer adoption, the Company’s financial results could
    be negatively impacted.


 


    We have taken, and continue to take, cost-reduction actions.
    Our ability to complete these actions and the impact of such
    actions on our business may be limited by a variety of factors.
    The cost-reduction actions, in turn, may expose us to additional
    production risk and have an adverse effect on our sales,
    profitability and ability to attract and retain employees.


 


    We have been reducing costs and simplifying our product
    portfolios in all of our businesses, with sizable reductions in
    our Mobile Devices business. We have discontinued product lines,
    exited businesses, consolidated manufacturing operations,
    increased manufacturing with third parties, reduced our employee
    population and changed our compensation and benefit programs.


 


    The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our sales and
    profitability may be influenced by many factors including, but
    not limited to: (i) our ability to successfully complete
    these ongoing efforts; (ii) our ability to generate the
    level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable
    us to effectively compete; (iii) delays in implementation
    of anticipated workforce reductions in highly-regulated
    locations outside the United States, particularly in Europe and
    Asia; (iv) decline in employee morale and the potential
    inability to meet operational targets due to the loss of
    employees; (v) our ability to retain or recruit key
    employees, particularly as a result of recent actions to suspend
    the Company’s 401(k) contributions to employee accounts,
    permanently freeze all future benefit accruals under
    U.S. pension plans and eliminate merit increase programs in
    the U.S. and many other markets; (vi) the adequacy of our
    manufacturing capacity, including capacity provided by third
    parties; and (vii) the performance of other parties under
    contract manufacturing arrangements on which we rely for the
    manufacture of certain products, parts and components.


 


    All of our businesses have consolidated or exited certain
    facilities and our products are manufactured in fewer facilities
    than in the past. While we have business continuity and risk
    management plans in place in case capacity is significantly
    reduced or eliminated at a given facility, the reduced number of
    alternative facilities could cause the duration of any
    manufacturing disruption to be longer. As a result, we could
    have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and
    profits could decline.


 


    The demand for our products depends, in part, on the
    continued growth of the industries in which we participate. A
    market decline in any one of these industries could have an
    adverse effect on our business.


 


    The rate at which the portions of the telecommunications
    industry in which we participate continue to grow is critical to
    our ability to improve our overall financial performance and we
    could be negatively impacted by a slowdown. Our business was
    very negatively impacted by the economic slowdown and the
    corresponding reduction in capital spending by the
    telecommunications industry from 2001 to 2003, and we are
    forecasting declines and slower growth in 2009 for the
    industries we compete in.


 


    Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world
    and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are
    not global may not face.


 


    Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and
    more than half of our net sales are made to customers outside
    the U.S. In addition, we have many manufacturing,
    administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S. and
    more than half of our employees are employed outside the
    U.S. Most of our suppliers’ operations are outside the
    U.S., and most of our products are manufactured outside the
    U.S.


 


    As with all companies that have sizeable sales and operations
    outside the U.S., we are exposed to risks that could negatively
    impact sales or profitability, including but not limited to:
    (i) tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes, customs
    classifications and certifications, including but not limited to
    changes in classifications or errors or omissions related to
    such classifications and certifications; (ii) changes in
    U.S. and
    non-U.S. rules
    related to trade, environmental, health and safety, technical
    standards & consumer protection; (iii) longer
    payment cycles; (iv) tax issues, such as tax law changes,
    variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared
    to the U.S., obligations under tax incentive agreements, and
    difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a
    tax-efficient manner; (v) currency fluctuations,
    particularly in the Chinese renminbi, Euro, Brazilian real,
    Taiwan dollar and Japanese yen; (vi) foreign exchange
    regulations, which may limit the Company’s ability to
    convert or repatriate foreign currency; (vii) challenges in
    collecting accounts receivable; (viii) cultural and
    language differences; (ix) employment regulations and local
    labor conditions; (x) difficulties protecting IP in foreign
    countries; (xi) instability in economic or political
    conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or
    anticipated military or political conflicts; (xii) natural
    disasters; (xiii) public health issues or outbreaks;







Table of Contents





    24




    (xiv) changes in laws or regulations that adversely impact
    benefits being received by the Company; and (xv) the impact
    of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement
    arrangements.


 


    Many of our products that are manufactured outside the
    U.S. are manufactured in Asia and Mexico. If manufacturing
    in these regions is disrupted, our overall capacity could be
    significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be
    negatively impacted. Furthermore, the legal system in China is
    still developing and is subject to change. Accordingly, our
    operations and orders for products in China could be adversely
    impacted by changes to, or interpretation of, Chinese law.


 


    We also have presence in emerging markets such as India and
    Russia. We face challenges in emerging markets, including
    creating demand for our products and the negative impact of
    changes in the laws, or the interpretation of the laws, in those
    countries.


 


    Changes in our operations or sales outside the
    U.S. markets could result in lost benefits in impacted
    countries and increase our cost of doing business.


 


    The Company has entered into various agreements with
    non-U.S. governments,
    agencies, or similar organizations under which the Company
    receives certain benefits relating to its operations
    and/or sales
    in the jurisdiction. If the Company’s circumstances change
    and operations or sales are not at levels originally
    anticipated, the Company may be at risk of losing some or all of
    these benefits and increasing our cost of doing business.


 


    If the quality of our products does not meet our
    customers’ expectations, then our sales and operating
    earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Some of the products we sell have quality issues resulting from
    the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software
    used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by
    components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers.
    Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the
    products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers,
    or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, we
    discover quality issues in the products after they have been
    shipped to our customers, distributors or end-users, requiring
    us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least
    disruptive to our customers. Such pre-shipment and post-shipment
    quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications,
    including: delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue
    or future orders, customer-imposed penalties on Motorola for
    failure to meet contractual requirements, increased costs
    associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative
    impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation.


 


    In some cases, if the quality issue affects the product’s
    safety or regulatory compliance, then such a
    “defective” product may need to be recalled. Depending
    on the nature of the defect and the number of products in the
    field, it could cause the Company to incur substantial recall
    costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential
    loss of future orders, and the damage to the Company’s
    goodwill or brand/reputation. In addition, the Company may be
    required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for
    failed performance that might exceed the revenue that the
    Company receives from the contracts. Recalls involving
    regulatory agencies could also result in fines and additional
    costs. Finally, recalls could result in third-party litigation,
    including class action litigation by persons alleging common
    harm resulting from the purchase of the products.


 


    If the volume of our sales decrease or do not reach projected
    targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing
    costs that may make our products less competitive.


 


    We have negotiated favorable pricing terms with many of our
    suppliers, some of which have volume-based pricing. In the case
    of volume-based pricing arrangements, we may experience higher
    than anticipated costs if current volume-based purchase
    projections are not met. Some contracts have minimum purchase
    commitments and we may incur large financial penalties if these
    commitments are not met. We also may have unused production
    capacity if our current volume projections are not met,
    increasing our production cost per unit. In the future, as we
    establish new pricing terms, our volume demand could adversely
    impact future pricing from suppliers. All of these outcomes may
    result in our products being more costly to manufacture and less
    competitive.


 


    Our future operating results depend on our ability to
    purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components
    to meet the demands of our customers.


 


    Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on
    our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality
    materials, parts and components from our suppliers. We have
    experienced shortages in the past that have adversely affected
    our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to
    avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurances that
    we will not encounter these problems in the future. Furthermore,
    certain







Table of Contents





    25




    of our components are available only from a single source or
    limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a
    timely manner. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a
    significant increase in the price of supplies could have a
    material adverse effect on our businesses.


 


    Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to form
    successful strategic alliances. If these arrangements do not
    develop as expected, our business may be adversely impacted.


 


    We currently partner with industry leaders to meet customer
    product and service requirements and to develop innovative
    advances in design and technology. Some of our partnerships
    allow us to supplement internal manufacturing capacity and share
    the cost of developing next-generation technologies. Other
    partnerships allow us to offer more services and features to our
    customers. If such arrangements do not develop as expected, our
    business could be adversely impacted.


 


    We rely on third-party distributors, representatives and
    retailers to sell certain of our products.


 


    In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products
    through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives
    and retailers. Certain of our distributors or representatives
    may also market other products that compete with our products.
    The loss, termination or failure of one or more of our
    distributors or representatives to effectively promote our
    products, or changes in the financial or business condition of
    these distributors, representatives or retailers, could affect
    our ability to bring products to market.


 


    We face many risks relating to intellectual property
    rights.


 


    Our business will be harmed if: (i) we, our customers
    and/or our
    suppliers are found to have infringed intellectual property
    rights of third parties, (ii) if the intellectual property
    indemnities in our supplier agreements are inadequate to cover
    damages and losses due to infringement of third-party
    intellectual property rights by supplier products, (iii) if
    we are required to provide broad intellectual property
    indemnities to our customers, or (iv) if our intellectual
    property protection is inadequate to protect our proprietary
    rights. We may be harmed if we are forced to make publicly
    available, under the relevant
    open-source
    licenses, certain internally developed
    software-related
    intellectual property as a result of either our use of
    open-source
    software code or the use of
    third-party
    software that contains
    open-source
    code.


 


    Because our products are comprised of complex technology, much
    of which we acquire from suppliers through the purchase of
    components or licensing of software, we are often involved in or
    impacted by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual
    property rights. Third parties have asserted, and in the future
    may assert, intellectual property infringement claims against us
    and against our customers and suppliers. Defending claims may be
    expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and
    employees. Increasingly, third parties have sought broad
    injunctive relief which could limit our ability to sell our
    products in the U.S. or elsewhere with intellectual
    property subject to the claims. If we do not succeed in any such
    litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources
    to pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or
    to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the
    subject of such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that
    any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us
    on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be
    forced to stop delivering certain products if we or our customer
    or supplier are subject to a final injunction.


 


    We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property
    indemnities with our suppliers for infringement of third-party
    intellectual property rights, but there is no assurance that we
    will be successful in our negotiations or that a supplier’s
    indemnity will cover all damages and losses suffered by Motorola
    and our customers due to the infringing products or that a
    supplier may choose to accept a license or modify or replace its
    products with non-infringing products which would otherwise
    mitigate such damages and losses. Further, Motorola may not be
    able to participate in intellectual property litigation
    involving a supplier and may not be able to influence any
    ultimate resolution or outcome that may adversely impact
    Motorola’s sales if a court enters an injunction that
    enjoins the supplier’s products or if the International
    Trade Commission issues an exclusionary order that blocks
    Motorola products from importation into the U.S.


 


    In addition, our customers increasingly demand that we indemnify
    them broadly from all damages and losses resulting from
    intellectual property litigation against them. Because our
    customers often derive much larger revenue streams by reselling
    or leasing our products than we generate from the same products,
    these indemnity claims by our customers have the potential to
    expose us to damages that are much higher than we would be
    exposed to if we were sued directly.


 


    Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important
    competitive tools and may generate income under license
    agreements. We regard our intellectual property rights as
    proprietary and attempt to protect them







Table of Contents





    26




    with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws,
    confidentiality agreements and other methods. We also generally
    restrict access to and distribution of our proprietary
    information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a
    third party to obtain and use our proprietary information or
    develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective
    patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be
    unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries.
    Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third
    parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our
    intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our
    business.


 


    As we expand our business, including through acquisitions, and
    compete with new competitors in new markets, the breadth and
    strength of our intellectual property portfolio in those new
    areas may not be as developed as in our longer-standing
    businesses. This may expose us to a heightened risk of
    litigation and other challenges from competitors in these new
    markets.


 


    We face risks related to ongoing patent-related disputes
    between Qualcomm and Broadcom.


 


    Motorola is a purchaser of CDMA EV-DO baseband processor chips
    and chipsets from Qualcomm Incorporated (“Qualcomm”),
    and we previously announced an intention to design certain of
    Qualcomm’s W-CDMA chipsets into certain of our 3G handsets.
    Qualcomm and Broadcom Corporation (“Broadcom”) are
    engaged in several patent-related legal actions. In certain of
    these actions, Broadcom is seeking orders to ban the importation
    into the U.S. of Qualcomm’s infringing EV-DO and
    W-CDMA baseband processor chipsets and certain
    “downstream” products that contain them (including
    Motorola handsets)
    and/or limit
    Qualcomm’s ability to provide certain services and products
    in the U.S. relating to such infringing chipsets. A final
    outcome adverse to Qualcomm in any of the patent-related legal
    actions could have a material adverse impact on Motorola’s
    performance by making it difficult, more expensive or impossible
    for Motorola to make
    and/or
    import products destined for the U.S. market that use
    certain infringing Qualcomm chipsets. While we continue to work
    with Qualcomm and others on contingency plans relating to these
    cases, there is no guarantee that such plans will prove
    successful or avoid further legal challenge.


 


    Our future financial results may be negatively impacted if we
    are not successful in licensing our intellectual property.


 


    As part of the business strategy of some of our business
    segments, primarily our Mobile Devices business, we generate
    revenue through the licensing of intellectual property rights.
    The licensed rights include those that are essential to
    telecommunications standards, such as the GSM standard.
    Previously
    agreed-upon
    terms of some of our long-standing license agreements and the
    aging of our essential patent portfolio have reduced our royalty
    revenue over the past several years and are likely to continue
    to reduce that revenue. Uncertainty in the legal environment
    makes it difficult to assure that we will be able to enter into
    new license agreements that will be sufficient to offset that
    reduction in our revenue.


 


    Many of our components and products are designed or
    manufactured by third parties and if third-party manufacturers
    lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant
    changes in the financial or business condition of such
    third-party manufacturers, it may have a material adverse effect
    on our business.


 


    We rely on third-party suppliers for many of the components used
    in our products and we rely on third-party manufacturers to
    manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products. If we
    are not able to engage such manufacturers with the capabilities
    or capacities required by our business, or if such third parties
    lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant
    changes in the financial or business condition of such third
    parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.


 


    We also have third-party arrangements for the design or
    manufacture of certain products, parts and components. If we are
    not able to engage such parties with the capabilities or
    capacities required by our business, or if these third parties
    fail to deliver quality products, parts and components on time
    and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling
    our orders and our sales and profits could decline.


 


    We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other
    companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce
    significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to
    integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from
    the acquisitions.


 


    In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth
    opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic
    acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties.
    These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty
    in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an
    efficient and effective manner; (ii) the challenges in
    achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits
    from acquisitions; (iii) the risk







Table of Contents





    27




    that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the
    technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be
    successful in those markets; (iv) the potential loss of key
    employees of the acquired businesses; (v) the risk of
    diverting the attention of senior management from our
    operations; (vi) the risks of entering new markets in which
    we have limited experience; (vii) risks associated with
    integrating financial reporting and internal control systems;
    (viii) difficulties in expanding information technology
    systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired
    businesses; and (ix) future impairments of goodwill of an
    acquired business.


 


    Acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate
    may carry higher relative valuations (based on their earnings)
    than we do. This is particularly evident in software and
    services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher
    valuation than Motorola may be dilutive to our earnings,
    especially when the acquired business has little or no revenue.
    In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly
    dilutive to near-term earnings and have, in the past, foregone
    certain of these acquisitions.


 


    Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial
    value in connection with a transaction in the form of
    change-in-control
    agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of
    restrictions on other equity- based compensation rights. To
    retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we
    may offer additional retention incentives, but it may still be
    difficult to retain certain key employees.


 


    The value of our investments in the securities of various
    companies fluctuates and it may be difficult for us to realize
    the value of these investments.


 


    We hold a portfolio of investments in various companies. Since
    the majority of these securities represent investments in
    technology companies, the fair market values of these securities
    are subject to significant price volatility. In addition, the
    realizable value of these securities is subject to market and
    other conditions.


 


    We also have invested in numerous privately-held companies, many
    of which can still be considered in startup or developmental
    stages. These investments are inherently risky as the market for
    the technologies or products they have under development are
    typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We
    could lose all or substantially all of the value of our
    investments in these companies, and in some cases have.


 


    The Sigma Fund holds U.S. Dollar-denominated debt
    obligations which include, among other securities, corporate
    bonds, asset- and mortgage-backed securities. As issuers of
    these securities continue to be negatively impacted by the
    weakened global economic environment and dislocation in the
    financial markets, the total fair value of the Sigma Fund
    holdings is less than its total original cost. The fair value of
    these holdings may experience further declines due to the
    widening credit spreads in several debt market segments or if
    the underlying debtors should default on their obligations. Such
    events could result in additional temporary unrealized losses or
    impairment charges in the Sigma Fund investments.


 


    It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of
    highly-skilled employees that are necessary to remain
    competitive.


 


    Competition for key technical personnel in high-technology
    industries is intense. We believe that our future success
    depends in large part on our continued ability to hire,
    assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified
    engineers and other highly-skilled personnel needed to compete
    and develop successful new products. We may not be as successful
    as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and
    utilizing these highly-skilled personnel. In particular, we may
    have more difficulty attracting or retaining highly-skilled
    personnel during periods of poor operating performance, and as a
    result of recent actions to suspend the Company’s 401(k)
    contributions to employee accounts, permanently freeze all
    future benefit accruals under U.S. pension plans and
    eliminate merit increase programs in the U.S. and many other
    markets.


 


    The unfavorable outcome of litigation pending or future
    litigation could materially impact the Company.


 


    Our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by
    unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation. See
    “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” There can be no
    assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation. In
    addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation and these
    costs could negatively impact our financial results.


 


    We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and
    safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws.


 


    Our operations and the products we manufacture
    and/or sell
    are subject to a wide range of global laws. Compliance with
    existing or future laws could subject us to future costs or
    liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our
    ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, and generally
    impact our financial







Table of Contents





    28




    performance. Some of these laws relate to the use, disposal,
    clean up of, and exposure to hazardous substances. In the United
    States, laws often require parties to fund remedial studies or
    action regardless of fault. Motorola continues to incur disposal
    costs and has ongoing remediation obligations. Changes to
    U.S. environmental laws or our discovery of additional
    obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on
    Motorola.


 


    Over the last several years, laws focused on: the energy
    efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of
    both electronic products and packaging; and reducing or
    eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products
    have expanded significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility
    features of electronic products, standardization of connectors
    and power supplies, sound levels of music playing devices, and
    other aspects are also proliferating.


 


    These laws impact our products and make it more expensive to
    manufacture and sell product. It may also be difficult to comply
    with the laws in a timely way and we may not have compliant
    products available in the quantities requested by our customers,
    thereby impacting our sales and profitability.


 


    We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate
    increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction
    or elimination of certain hazardous constituents from products,
    increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional
    accessibility.


 


    We are exposed to risks under large multi-year system
    contracts that may negatively impact our business.


 


    We enter into large multi-year system contracts with large
    customers. This exposes us to risks, including: (i) the
    technological risks of such contracts, especially when the
    contracts involve new technology, and (ii) financial risks
    under these contracts, including the estimates inherent in
    projecting costs associated with large contracts and the related
    impact on operating results. We are also facing increasing
    competition from traditional system integrators and the defense
    industry as system contracts become larger and more complicated.
    Political developments also can impact the nature and timing of
    these large contracts.


 


    It is important that we are able to obtain many different
    types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance
    we are forced to retain the risk.


 


    The Company has many types of insurance coverage and also
    self-insures for some risks and obligations. The insurance
    market was disrupted after the events of September 11, 2001
    and the 2005 hurricanes. While the cost and availability of most
    insurance has stabilized, there are still certain types and
    levels of insurance that remain unavailable. Natural disasters
    and certain risks arising from securities claims and public
    liability are potential self-insured events that could
    negatively impact our financial results.


 


    Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the
    growth of the wireless communications industry or reduce
    barriers to entry for new competitors.


 


    Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The
    allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and
    other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to
    wireless services. The growth of the wireless and personal
    communications industry may be affected: (i) by regulations
    relating to the access to allocated spectrum for wireless
    communication users, especially in urban areas, (ii) if
    adequate frequencies are not allocated, or (iii) if new
    technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies
    currently allocated for such use. Industry growth has been and
    may continue to be affected by the cost of new licenses required
    to use frequencies and any related frequency relocation costs.


 


    The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing
    new wireless communications technologies to be developed and
    offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network
    systems, such as WiFi, mesh technologies and wide area network
    systems, such as WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also
    deregulated portions of their available spectrum to allow
    deployment of these and other technologies. Deregulation may
    introduce new competition and new opportunities for Motorola and
    our customers.


 


    Changes in government policies and laws or economic
    conditions may adversely affect our financial results.


 


    Our results may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and
    fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of
    U.S. and
    non-U.S. governments,
    agencies and similar organizations. Our results may also be
    affected by social and economic conditions, which impact our
    operations, including in emerging markets in Asia, India, Latin
    America and Eastern Europe, and in markets subject to ongoing
    political hostilities and war, including the Middle East.







Table of Contents





    29



 


    In addition, the laws and regulations that apply directly to
    access to, or commerce on, the Internet are still evolving. We
    could be adversely affected by any such regulation in any
    country where we operate, including under the new presidential
    administration in the U.S. The adoption of such measures
    could decrease demand for our products and at the same time
    increase the cost of selling such products.


 


    Consolidations in both the cable and telecommunication
    industries may adversely impact our business.


 


    The cable and telecommunication industries have experienced
    consolidation and this trend is expected to continue according
    to industry estimates. Industry consolidation could result in
    delays of purchases or in the selection of new suppliers by the
    merged companies. This could adversely impact equipment
    suppliers like Motorola and our competitors. Due to continuing
    consolidation within the cable and telecommunications industries
    worldwide, a small number of operators own a majority of cable
    television systems and account for a significant portion of the
    capital spending made by cable telecommunications systems
    operators.


 


    The effects of FCC regulations requiring separation of
    security functionality from set-tops could negatively impact our
    sales of set-tops to cable providers.


 


    Historically, reception of digital television programming from a
    cable broadband network has required a set-top with security
    technology. Traditionally, cable service providers sold or
    leased their set-top to their customer. This security technology
    has limited the availability of set-tops to those manufactured
    by a few cable network manufacturers, including Motorola. FCC
    regulations requiring separation of security functionality from
    set-tops that are aimed at increasing competition and
    encouraging the sale of set-tops in the retail market became
    effective for most customers in 2007. As the retail market
    develops for set-tops and televisions capable of accepting the
    security modules, sales of our set-tops to cable providers may
    be negatively impacted. In addition, a full two-way security
    interface specification that allows retail customers access to
    all programming available on a cable operator’s network
    without the need for a set-top box has been adopted by a few
    television manufacturers. They began shipping television sets
    that incorporate this capability in 2008.


 


    We rely on complex information technology systems and
    networks to operate our business. Any significant system or
    network disruption could have a material adverse impact on our
    operations, sales and operating results.


 


    We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex
    information technology systems and networks, some of which are
    within Motorola and some are outsourced. All information
    technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or
    interruption from a variety of sources, including but not
    limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts,
    natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication
    failures. There also may be system or network disruptions if new
    or upgraded business management systems are defective or are not
    installed properly. We have implemented various measures to
    manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but
    a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our
    operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur
    additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these
    disruptions or security breaches.


 


    Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile.


 


    Our share price has been volatile due, in part, to generally
    volatile securities markets, and the volatility in the
    telecommunications and technology companies’ securities
    markets in particular. Factors other than our financial results
    that may affect our share price include, but are not limited to,
    market expectations of our performance, spending plans of our
    customers, and the level of perceived growth in the industries
    in which we participate.


 


    The outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of
    our income tax returns by the IRS could impact our financial
    results.


 


    We are subject to continued examination of our income tax
    returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax
    authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse
    outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the
    adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no
    assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations
    will not have an adverse effect on future operating results.


 


    Failure of our suppliers to use acceptable ethical business
    practices could negatively impact our business.


 


    It is our policy to require our suppliers to operate in
    compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding
    working conditions, employment practices, environmental
    compliance and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do
    not control their labor and other business practices. If one of
    our suppliers violates labor or other laws or implements labor
    or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the
    shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders
    could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our







Table of Contents





    30




    reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers fails to
    procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or
    patents, legal action could be taken against us that could
    impact the salability of our inventory and expose us to
    financial obligations to a third party. Any of these events
    could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of
    operations.


 


    Copyright levies in numerous countries for the sale of
    products may adversely impact our business.


 


    Motorola faces the possibility of substantial copyright levies
    from collecting societies in numerous countries for the sale of
    products that might be used for the private copying of copyright
    protected works such as mobile phones, memory cards, and set top
    boxes. The collecting societies argue that such levies should
    apply to such products because they include audio/video
    recording functionality, such as an MP3 player or DVR or storage
    capability, despite the fact that such products are not
    primarily intended to act as a recording device. As of this
    date, to our knowledge, no copyright levies have been paid to
    any collecting societies anywhere by any manufacturer. Motorola
    is currently working with other major mobile communications
    companies to challenge the applicability of these levies to
    mobile phones, and is also engaged in aggressive lobbying
    efforts against the levies in general at the European Union
    level. However, if these levies are imposed, our financial
    results will be negatively impacted.


 



    Item 1B