Item 1A: Risk Factors” we discuss some of the
    risk factors that could cause actual results to differ
    materially from those stated in the forward-looking
    statements.


 


    “Motorola” (which may be referred to as the
    “Company,” “we,” “us,” or
    “our”) means Motorola, Inc. or Motorola, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries, or one of our segments, as the context requires.
    “Motorola” is a registered trademark of Motorola,
    Inc.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1: 

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    We provide technologies, products and services that make a broad
    range of mobile experiences possible. Our portfolio includes
    wireless handsets, wireless accessories, digital entertainment
    devices, wireless access systems, voice and data communications
    systems, and enterprise mobility products. With the rapid
    convergence of fixed and mobile broadband Internet and the
    growing demand for next-generation mobile communications
    solutions by people, businesses and governments, we are focused
    on high-quality, innovative products that meet the expanding
    needs of our customers around the world.


 


    Motorola is a market leader in the following businesses:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Mobile Devices business designs, manufactures, sells
    and services wireless handsets with integrated software and
    accessory products, and licenses intellectual property.




 



     
        • 

    
    The Home and Networks Mobility business designs,
    manufactures, sells, installs and services: (i) digital
    video, Internet Protocol (“IP”) video and broadcast
    network interactive set-tops (“digital entertainment
    devices”), end-to-end video delivery solutions, broadband
    access infrastructure systems, and associated data and voice
    customer premise equipment (“broadband gateways”) to
    cable television and telecom service providers, and
    (ii) wireless access systems (“wireless
    networks”), including cellular infrastructure systems and
    wireless broadband systems, to wireless service providers.




 



     
        • 

    
    The Enterprise Mobility Solutions business designs,
    manufactures, sells, installs and services analog and digital
    two-way radio, voice and data communications products and
    systems for private networks, wireless broadband systems and
    end-to-end enterprise mobility solutions to a wide range of
    enterprise markets, including government and public safety
    agencies, as well as retail, utility, transportation,
    manufacturing, healthcare and other commercial customers.





 


    Motorola is a corporation organized under the laws of the State
    of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation
    organized in 1928. Motorola’s principal executive offices
    are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois
    60196.


 



    Business
    Segments


 


    Motorola reports financial results for the following three
    operating business segments:


 



    Mobile
    Devices Segment


 


    The Mobile Devices segment (“Mobile Devices” or the
    “segment”) designs, manufactures, sells and services
    wireless handsets with integrated software and accessory
    products, and licenses intellectual property. In 2007, the
    segment’s net sales represented 52% of the Company’s
    consolidated net sales.




Table of Contents





    2



 



    Principal
    Products and Services


 


    Our wireless subscriber products include wireless handsets with
    related software and accessory products. We also sell and
    license our intellectual property. We market our products
    worldwide to carriers and consumers through direct sales,
    distributors, dealers, retailers and, in certain markets,
    through licensees.


 



    Our
    Industry


 


    The overall wireless handset industry remains strong. Total
    industry shipments of wireless handsets (also referred to as
    industry “sell-in”) increased to approximately 1.14
    billion units in 2007, an increase of approximately 16% compared
    to 2006. Demand from new subscribers was strong in emerging
    markets, led by India and China. Replacement sales in
    highly-penetrated markets were also strong due to generally
    favorable economic conditions, as well as compelling new handset
    designs, attractive handset features and the increased roll-out
    of high-speed data networks, all creating greater demand.


 


    Industry forecasters predict that the wireless handset industry
    will continue to grow over the next several years, although the
    annual rate of growth is expected to be in the 10% range as
    opposed to the approximately 20% average annual growth the
    industry experienced from 2003 through 2007. Continued growth is
    expected to be driven primarily by demand from new subscribers
    in emerging markets and replacement sales from the current
    subscriber base.


 



    Our
    Strategy


 


    Motorola seeks to be a leading supplier of wireless handsets and
    mobile experiences to customers globally. To accomplish this
    objective, our strategy is focused on improving our product
    portfolio to meet consumer demands and improving our financial
    performance. This includes transitioning to silicon and software
    platforms that enable us to lower costs, get to market faster
    and offer richer consumer experiences.


 


    We have structured our mobile device product portfolio and
    development into four primary product segments: Mass Market,
    Feature, Multimedia and Productivity. Our strategy is to offer a
    broad array of products in each of these product segments.


 


    The Mass Market product segment focuses on voice-centric devices
    with targeted features. While this segment is maturing in North
    America, Europe and parts of Asia, it is growing significantly
    in developing regions. To address this market, we are expanding
    our handset offerings around our new W Series of handsets. These
    handsets satisfy everyday communications needs, include targeted
    features and are offered at affordable price points across all
    regions and in both CDMA and GSM technologies. The key to our
    success in the Mass Market product segment is offering products
    at competitive price points.


 


    The Feature product segment focuses on delivering iconic,
    fashionable phones with high-end features. During 2007, we
    refreshed our flagship RAZR franchise with the RAZR2, the
    luxurious RAZR2 V8, and a RAZR classic with video playback and a
    digital audio processor music player. We are focused on building
    an enhanced portfolio of Feature phone devices that deliver
    compelling 2G and 3G mobile experiences.


 


    The Multimedia product segment is focused on the convergence of
    voice capabilities with multimedia experiences on a single
    mobile device. In the recent past, many of our customers have
    purchased and used different devices from multiple consumer
    electronics segments to meet their lifestyle needs. In addition
    to mobile phones, they use devices such as cameras, mobile music
    and video players, mobile gaming devices and portable navigation
    devices. Increasingly, these experiences will be delivered
    through compelling applications and services on a single device.
    We are developing handsets designed to strengthen our Multimedia
    product offerings, such as the MOTOROKR Z6 and the S9 headset, a
    2008 mobile music offering. We are particularly focused on
    developing a broader offering of 3G products for the Multimedia
    product segment.


 


    The Productivity product segment is growing as workforces around
    the world continue to demand increasingly robust wireless
    handsets and consumers want their email “on the go.”
    In 2007, we expanded our Q franchise across all regions and
    major technologies with the launch of the GSM Q8 and UMTS Q9h.
    We are planning to capitalize on new opportunities in this
    growing product segment.


 


    Throughout each of these product segments, we have increased our
    focus in our accessories portfolio to deliver complete mobile
    experiences and to complement the features and functionalities
    of the wireless handsets.




Table of Contents





    3




    Additionally, we are expanding our accessory compatibility
    across all brands of wireless handsets and
    Bluetooth-enabled
    devices.


 


    We are investing in next-generation technologies, such as WiMAX,
    HSDPA and Long Term Evolution (“LTE”). We believe a
    strong intellectual property portfolio is critical to our
    long-term success and to ensuring that we maintain a favorable
    strategic position in these technologies. We will continue to
    identify opportunities to generate licensing revenue from these
    investments. We also believe that innovation is critical to
    offering devices that demonstrate unique experiences and value
    propositions for consumers. As an example, in 2007 we began
    shipping our flagship RAZR2 devices with Crystal Talk, a
    proprietary technology that automatically adjusts audio quality
    based on ambient noise conditions to provide the optimal
    conversational experience. In application services, we continue
    to work with third parties to improve upon and develop our
    services and applications, which will deliver rich experiences
    to the customer. Motorola is committed to investing in evolving
    technologies to ensure that we continue to deliver enhanced and
    differentiated wireless handset experiences to consumers.


 


    In January 2008, we announced that we are evaluating
    alternatives for the structural and strategic realignment of our
    Mobile Devices business to better equip it to recapture global
    market leadership and to enhance shareholder value. This may
    include the separation of the Mobile Devices business from
    Motorola’s other businesses to permit each to grow and
    better serve their customers.


 



    Customers


 


    We continue to focus on strengthening our relationships with our
    customers. The segment has several large customers worldwide,
    the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse
    effect on the segment’s business. The largest of the
    segment’s end customers (including sales through
    distributors) are Sprint Nextel, AT&T, Verizon, China
    Mobile and America Movil. In 2007, aggregate net sales to these
    five customers represented approximately 42% of the
    segment’s net sales.


 


    In addition to selling directly to carriers and operators, our
    Mobile Devices business also sells products through a variety of
    third-party distributors and retailers, which account for
    approximately 33% of the segment’s net sales. The largest
    of these distributors is Brightstar Corporation.


 


    The U.S. market continued to be the segment’s largest
    individual market, accounting for approximately 46% of the
    segment’s net sales in 2007, compared to approximately 35%
    of the segment’s net sales in 2006. Approximately 54% of
    the segment’s net sales in 2007 were to markets outside the
    U.S., the largest of which were Brazil, China and Mexico.
    Compared to 2006, the segment experienced sales declines in each
    of its four major sales regions: Asia, the Europe, Middle East
    and Africa region (“EMEA”), North America and Latin
    America.


 



    Competition


 


    The segment believes its overall market share for the full year
    2007 was approximately 14%, making it the third-largest
    worldwide supplier of wireless handsets. The segment experiences
    intense competition in worldwide markets from numerous global
    competitors, including some of the world’s largest
    companies, such as Nokia, Samsung,
    Sony-Ericsson
    and LG. In 2007, consolidation in the wireless handset industry
    slowed compared to previous years, and the five largest vendors
    together held an aggregate market share of approximately 83%,
    compared to 84% at the end of 2006. During 2007, regulatory
    changes in China precipitated a substantial increase in the
    number of manufacturers producing handsets in that market. The
    increased competition, primarily in the very low tier of the
    Mass Market product segment, has impacted shipment volumes in
    China for global vendors, as local vendors gained market share
    in the fourth quarter of 2007.


 


    Major competitors in the industry are moving to applications and
    services as key sources of value and are increasing their focus
    and investments in these areas. In response, Motorola has
    created a global applications and services team within the
    Mobile Devices segment to focus on building the applications and
    services business.


 


    General competitive factors in the market for the segment’s
    products include: design; time-to-market; brand awareness;
    technology offered; price; product proposition, performance,
    quality, delivery and warranty; the quality and availability of
    service; and relationships with key customers.




Table of Contents





    4



 



    Payment
    Terms


 


    The segment’s customers and distributors buy from us
    regularly with payment terms that are competitive with current
    industry practices. These terms vary globally and generally
    range from cash-with-order to 60 days. Extended payment
    terms beyond 60 days are provided to customers on a limited
    basis. A customer’s outstanding credit at any point in time
    is limited to a predetermined amount as established by the
    Company.


 



    Regulatory
    Matters


 


    Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The
    allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and
    other countries, and limited spectrum space is allocated to
    wireless services. The growth of the wireless and personal
    communications industry may be affected if adequate frequencies
    are not allocated or, alternatively, if new technologies are not
    developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated
    for such use. Industry growth may also be affected by the cost
    of the new licenses required to use frequencies and any related
    frequency relocation costs.


 


    The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing
    new wireless communications technologies to be developed and
    offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network
    systems, such as WiFi, and wide area network systems, such as
    WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also deregulated portions of
    their available spectrum to allow deployment of these and other
    new technologies, which can be offered without spectrum license
    costs. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new
    opportunities for Motorola and our customers. In addition,
    Mobile WiMAX was recently approved as a global IMT
    (International Mobile Telecommunications) standard. This action
    lays the foundation to further expand mobile WiMAX in key bands,
    making additional spectrum available globally.


 


    In January 2008, the Federal Communications Commission
    (“FCC”) began its auction of 700 MHz band
    spectrum licenses in the United States. This spectrum can
    carry large amounts of data across long distances and penetrate
    walls easier than higher frequencies, enhancing in-building
    coverage. The open-access conditions are intended to help foster
    innovation in handsets and applications, however the actual
    impact of the new licenses is unclear. The open access provision
    applies to approximately one-third of the U.S. spectrum being
    auctioned and prevents the licensee from blocking devices or
    applications that are compatible with the network.


 



    Backlog


 


    The segment’s backlog was $647 million at
    December 31, 2007, compared to $1.4 billion at
    December 31, 2006. This decrease in backlog is primarily
    due to a decline in customer demand driven by gaps in the
    segment’s product portfolio. The 2007 backlog is believed
    to be generally firm and 100% of that amount is expected to be
    recognized as revenue in 2008. The forward-looking estimate of
    the firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may
    cause the amount recognized to change.


 



    Intellectual
    Property Matters


 


    Patent protection is extremely important to the segment’s
    operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents
    relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing
    processes. The segment licenses certain of its patents to third
    parties and generates revenue from these licenses. Motorola is
    also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty
    and licensing fees vary from year to year and are subject to the
    terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products
    subject to licenses. The protection of these licenses is also
    important to the segment’s operations. Reference is made to
    the material under the heading “Other Information” for
    additional information relating to patents and trademarks and
    research and development activities with respect to this segment.


 



    Inventory,
    Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality


 


    The segment’s practice is to carry reasonable amounts of
    inventory in manufacturing and distribution centers in order to
    meet customer delivery requirements in a manner consistent with
    industry standards. At the end of 2007, the segment had a lower
    inventory balance than at the end of 2006. The decrease reflects
    the significant decline in sales volumes during 2007, as well as
    an ongoing emphasis on managing inventory levels.




Table of Contents





    5



 


    Availability of materials and components required by the segment
    is relatively dependable, but fluctuations in supply and market
    demand could cause selective shortages and affect results. We
    currently source certain materials and components from single
    vendors. Any material disruption from a single-source vendor may
    have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.


 


    Energy necessary for the segment’s manufacturing facilities
    consists primarily of electricity and natural gas, which are
    currently in generally adequate supply for the segment’s
    operations. In addition, the cost to operate our facilities and
    freight costs are dependent on world oil prices, which increased
    significantly during 2007 and increased our manufacturing and
    shipping costs. Labor is generally available in reasonable
    proximity to the segment’s manufacturing facilities.
    However, difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned
    items or a significant cost increase could affect the
    segment’s results.


 


    The segment permits returns under limited circumstances to
    remain competitive with current industry practices.


 


    The segment typically experiences higher sales in the fourth
    calendar quarter and lower sales in the first calendar quarter
    of each year due to seasonal trends in the wireless handset
    industry.


 



    Our
    Facilities/Manufacturing


 


    Our headquarters is located in Libertyville, Illinois. Our other
    major facilities are located in Plantation, Florida; Flensburg,
    Germany; Singapore; Beijing, Hangzhou and Tianjin, China;
    Jaguariuna, Brazil; Basingstoke, England; and Chennai, India. We
    have recently announced our intent to exit our Flensburg,
    Germany facility.


 


    We also use several electronics manufacturing suppliers
    (“EMS”) and original design manufacturers
    (“ODM”) to enhance our ability to lower our costs
    and/or deliver products that meet consumer demands in the
    rapidly-changing technological environment. A portion of our
    handsets are manufactured either completely or substantially by
    non-affiliated EMS and ODM manufacturers and the percentage of
    total manufactured unit volume with these manufacturers
    increased moderately from 2006 to 2007.


 


    In 2007, our handsets were primarily manufactured in Asia and we
    expect this to continue in 2008. Our largest manufacturing
    facilities are located in China, Singapore and Brazil. Each of
    these facilities serves multiple countries and regions of the
    world.


 



    Home
    and Networks Mobility Segment


 


    The Home and Networks Mobility segment (“Home and Networks
    Mobility” or the “segment”) designs,
    manufactures, sells, installs and services: (i) digital
    video, Internet Protocol (“IP”) video and broadcast
    network interactive set-tops (“digital entertainment
    devices”), end-to-end video delivery solutions, broadband
    access infrastructure systems, and associated data and voice
    customer premise equipment (“broadband gateways”) to
    cable television and telecom service providers (collectively,
    referred to as the “home business”), and
    (ii) wireless access systems (“wireless
    networks”), including cellular infrastructure systems and
    wireless broadband systems, to wireless service providers. In
    2007, the segment’s net sales represented 27% of the
    Company’s consolidated net sales.


 



    Principal
    Products and Services


 


    In the home business, the segment is a leading provider of
    end-to-end networks used for the delivery of video, data and
    voice services over hybrid fiber coaxial (“HFC”)
    networks, digital subscriber line (“DSL”) and passive
    optical networks (“PON”). Our portfolio includes: MPEG
    video encoding equipment for
    standard-definition
    and
    high-definition
    television (“HDTV” or “HD”); video
    processing and multiplexing systems; and
    video-on-demand,
    switched digital video and conditional access solutions used by
    network operators and programmers to deliver video programming.
    We provide a broad array of digital entertainment devices
    supporting analog, digital and IP video delivery including HD
    and digital video recording (“DVR”) (together,
    “HD/DVR”) applications. We support the delivery of
    high-speed data and voice services with
    head-end and
    central office equipment, along with data and voice modems and
    gateways for HFC and DSL networks and optical line terminals for
    PON networks.


 


    In the wireless networks business, the segment provides
    end-to-end cellular networks, including radio base stations,
    base station controllers, associated software and services,
    application platforms and third-party switching for CDMA, GSM,
    iDEN®
    and UMTS technologies. The segment also offers a portfolio of
    WiMAX products to




Table of Contents





    6




    create mobile IP broadband access. WiMAX has the potential to
    make mobile bandwidth more affordable and accessible for
    mainstream consumer adoption.


 


    Our products are marketed primarily to cable television
    operators, television programmers, telecom operators, wireless
    service providers and other communications providers worldwide
    and are sold primarily by our skilled sales personnel.


 



    Our
    Industry


 


    The home market is evolving rapidly as cable and telecom network
    operators expand their video, data and voice services (commonly
    known as the “triple play”) to grow their subscriber
    base. The competition between cable and telecom service
    providers is increasing. Telecom operators are expanding their
    broadband networks and beginning to offer advanced video and
    data services using IPTV and PON technologies. Cable operators
    are responding by expanding their investment in HD programming,
    bundling voice-over-IP services, expanding their broadband data
    service through Data Over Cable Service Interface Specifications
    (“DOCSIS”) 3.0 channel bonding, and maximizing
    utilization of network bandwidth using switched digital video.


 


    Our home business is subject to regulation by the FCC in the
    United States and other governmental communication
    regulators throughout the world. On July 1, 2007,
    regulations enacted by the FCC became effective, requiring
    separation of security functionality from cable set-tops. A full
    two-way security interface continues to be refined. Once
    developed and implemented, these changes are expected to
    increase competition and encourage the sale of set-tops and
    integrated devices, such as televisions and DVRs, that will
    allow retail customers direct access to programming.
    Traditionally, service providers have leased digital
    entertainment devices to their customers.


 


    In the wireless networks market, the majority of installed
    cellular infrastructure systems are based on CDMA, GSM, UMTS and
    iDEN technologies. We supply systems based on each of these
    technologies and are the sole supplier of proprietary iDEN
    networks. Advanced infrastructure systems based on these
    technologies include GPRS, CDMA-1X and EDGE. In addition, some
    segments of the cellular infrastructure industry have installed,
    or are in the process of migrating to, 3G networks, which are
    high-capacity radio access wireless networks providing enhanced
    data services, improved Internet access and increased voice
    capacity. The primary 3G technologies are W-CDMA (based on
    either UMTS or Freedom of Mobile Multimedia Access
    (“FOMA”) technologies) and CDMA2000 1xEVDO. We supply
    3G systems based on UMTS and CDMA 2000 1xEVDO technologies. An
    additional 3G technology standard is TD-SCDMA, driven primarily
    by the Chinese government and local Chinese vendors. We expect
    3G licenses to be awarded in China during 2008.


 


    Industry standards bodies are in the process of defining the
    next generation of wireless broadband systems after 3G. The
    Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
    (“IEEE”) is currently developing fixed and mobile
    broadband standards (802.16d and 802.16e) based on orthogonal
    frequency division multiplexing (“OFDM”) technology,
    which will utilize wider channels and enable triple play
    services (voice, data, video). Based upon developments in the
    802.16e standard, we expect to see the WiMAX market begin to
    develop in 2008 as several WiMAX networks come on-line and
    devices utilizing these networks become widely available. We are
    an early leader in next-generation wireless broadband products,
    including WiMAX technology.


 


    The International Telecommunications Union (“ITU”) is
    also adopting next-generation cellular wireless access standards
    (“4G”) for the cellular infrastructure industry, also
    based on OFDM technology and known commonly as Long Term
    Evolution (“LTE”). LTE has widespread industry
    support, not only from current GSM/UMTS operators, but also from
    CDMA/EV-DO based carriers. Motorola has been chosen as a trial
    supplier for a joint Verizon/Vodafone LTE trial that is
    currently underway.


 


    Licensing bodies of governments around the world are making
    spectrum available for advanced wireless technologies, including
    4G, in recognition of growing demand for wireless broadband
    services. Currently, Motorola estimates that there are over
    1,200 licenses available worldwide for advanced wireless
    technologies, such as 802.16e, with over 800 licenses outside
    North America.


 


    Demand for our products depends primarily on: (i) capital
    spending by providers of cellular and broadband services for
    constructing, rebuilding or upgrading their communications
    systems, and (ii) the marketing of advanced communications
    services by those providers. The amount of spending by these
    providers, and therefore a majority of our sales and
    profitability, are affected by a variety of factors, including:
    (i) the continuing trend of consolidation within the cable,
    wireline and wireless industries, (ii) the financial
    condition of operators and alternative providers, including
    their access to financing, (iii) technological
    developments, (iv) standardization




Table of Contents





    7




    efforts that impact the deployment of new equipment,
    (v) new legislation and regulations affecting the equipment
    sold by the segment, and (vi) general economic conditions.


 


    In 2007, the home business benefited from increased spending by
    operators on our products due to the increase in video and data
    subscribers and the deployment of advanced video platforms by
    cable operators for
    HD/DVR
    applications, as well as from spending by telecom operators
    upgrading their networks and adding video services. We
    expect this industry to continue to grow in 2008, driven by
    continued expansion of broadband network capacity and services.


 


    In 2007, the overall market for traditional CDMA wireless
    networks was relatively flat and the overall markets for GSM and
    iDEN wireless networks were down. Forecasted industry trends
    point to a decline in the CDMA, GSM and iDEN markets in 2008 as
    next-generation 3G and WiMAX wireless networks are deployed.
    Sales in the overall wireless network market are expected to be
    flat, or up slightly, in 2008.


 



    Our
    Strategy


 


    The Home and Networks Mobility segment is focused on leadership
    in next-generation broadband solutions to accelerate the
    delivery of personal media experiences. Key elements in the
    segment’s strategy include: (i) providing for seamless
    convergence of services and applications across delivery
    platforms within the home and across wireline and wireless
    networks, (ii) innovating and optimizing our end-to-end
    network portfolio, and (iii) developing new services that
    leverage our platforms to provide revenue-generating
    applications and services to our operator customers while
    enabling consumers to experience media mobility.


 


    In the home business, we are focused on accelerating the rate of
    digital penetration by broadband operators in North America
    through an enhanced suite of digital entertainment devices.
    These products include basic models supporting the industry
    movement to
    all-digital
    delivery and advanced units supporting HD/DVR functions. We are
    capitalizing on telecom operators decisions to offer IPTV to
    their subscribers globally, with products that support delivery
    of video content using both copper-outside-plant and
    fiber-to-the-premises (“FTTP”) networks. During the
    year, the segment continued to provide video infrastructure,
    FTTP access network equipment and advanced digital entertainment
    devices for the launch of Verizon’s FiOS service and is
    supplying IP interactive set-tops to leading telecommunication
    companies around the world, including AT&T, SingTel and
    Telia Sonera.


 


    We are also enhancing and expanding our voice and data portfolio
    to offer end-to-end solutions for fixed-mobile convergence and
    next-generation converged
    IP-based
    voice, data and video delivery. These solutions include:
    (i) broadband gateways with support for handing off a
    mobile voice or data call to a carrier’s VoIP or data
    network, and (ii) next-generation infrastructure products
    enhancing our cable modem termination system (“CMTS”)
    and PON platforms to expand the bandwidth delivered to a home or
    business. We developed our first Femtocell gateway in 2007,
    which enables consumers to connect to a wireless service
    provider’s network via a DSL or cable broadband connection.
    We are also an industry leader in broadband infrastructure
    solutions, introducing DOCSIS 3.0 channel bonding on our CMTS
    and cable modems and commercially deploying our Gigabit PON
    platform.


 


    In order to enhance our strategy, as well as increase our
    offerings to wireline carriers, we have completed several
    strategic acquisitions. During 2007, we completed the
    acquisition of Netopia, Inc., a broadband equipment provider for
    DSL customers, which allows for phone, TV and fast Internet
    connections. We also acquired: (i) Tut Systems, Inc., a
    leading developer of edge routing and video encoders;
    (ii) Terayon Communication Systems, Inc., a provider of
    real-time digital video networking applications to cable,
    satellite and telecommunication service providers worldwide;
    (iii) Modulus Video, Inc., a provider of MPEG-4 Advanced
    Coding compression systems designed for delivery of high-value
    video content in the IP set-top devices for the digital video,
    broadcast and satellite marketplaces; and (iv) Leapstone
    Systems, Inc., a provider of intelligent multimedia service
    delivery and content management solutions to networks operators.
    These acquisitions enhance our ability to: (i) provide
    complete solutions to operators as they deploy advanced
    services, (ii) assist operators in growing their on-demand
    content offerings, deploying switched digital video technology,
    and enabling targeted advertising solutions, and
    (iii) provide end-to-end video solutions to wireline and
    wireless operators as they add video to their service offerings.


 


    In the wireless networks business, the segment is investing to
    be a leader in next-generation wireless broadband technologies
    with its WiMAX solution. Because of its projected quicker time
    to market, expected lower cost and expected superior
    performance, the WiMAX wireless broadband technology, which is
    based on the IEEE standard 802.16e, represents a compelling
    offering for existing operators and emerging broadband service
    providers. In 2007, the segment delivered WiMAX network
    equipment to Wateen Telecom in Pakistan and Sprint Nextel and
    Clearwire in the United States. In addition, at the end of 2007,
    the segment was participating in over




Table of Contents





    8




    40 WiMAX trials globally. The segment is also leveraging its
    WiMAX investment to develop its LTE solution. Vodafone and
    Verizon have launched a coordinated LTE trial in 2008. Motorola
    has been selected as a supplier to support this trial with both
    infrastructure equipment and handsets.


 



    Customers


 


    The largest of the segment’s customers are Comcast,
    Verizon, KDDI (a service provider in Japan), China Mobile and
    Sprint Nextel. In 2007, aggregate net sales to these five
    customers represented approximately 43% of the segment’s
    net sales. The loss of any of the segment’s large customers
    could have a material adverse effect on the segment’s
    business. Further, because many of these contracts are
    long-term, the loss of a major customer could impact revenue and
    earnings over several quarters. Although sales in North America
    continued to account for a majority of the segment’s sales,
    48% of the segment’s net sales in 2007 were outside North
    America. The segment experienced sales increases in all
    geographic regions in 2007 compared to 2006.


 



    Competition


 


    The businesses in which the segment operates are highly
    competitive. The rapid technological changes occurring in each
    of the markets in which the segment competes are expected to
    lead to the entry of many new competitors. Competitive factors
    in the market for the segment’s products and systems
    include: technology offered; product and system performance;
    price; features; quality; delivery and availability. We believe
    that we are competitively positioned because of our solid
    relationships with major communication system operators
    worldwide, our technological leadership and our new product
    development capabilities. Price is a major area of competition
    and often impacts margins for initial system bids, particularly
    in emerging markets. Time-to-market has also been an important
    competitive factor, especially for new systems and technologies.


 


    We compete worldwide in the market for digital entertainment
    devices for broadband networks. Based on 2007 annual sales, we
    believe we are the leading provider of digital cable and IPTV
    set-tops in North America. Our digital cable and IPTV set-tops
    compete with products from a number of different companies,
    including: (i) those that develop and sell products that
    are distributed by direct broadcast satellite service providers
    through retail channels, (ii) those that develop,
    manufacture and sell products of their own design, and
    (iii) those that license technology from us or other
    competitors. In North America, our largest competitor is Cisco.
    Other competitors in North America include ARRIS, Ericsson
    (which entered the market in 2007 via the acquisition of
    Tandberg) and Harmonic, Inc. Outside of North America, where we
    have a smaller market position, we compete with many equipment
    suppliers, including several consumer electronics companies.


 


    The traditional competitive environment in the North American
    cable market continues to evolve. On July 1, 2007,
    regulations enacted by the FCC became effective requiring
    separation of security functionality from set-tops. To meet this
    requirement, we provide security modules to cable operators for
    use with both our own and third-party set-tops. A full two-way
    security interface specification continues to be refined. Once
    developed and implemented, these changes are expected to
    increase competition and encourage the sale of set-tops and
    integrated devices, such as televisions and DVRs, that will
    allow retail customers direct access to programming.
    Traditionally, cable service providers have leased the set-top
    to their customers.


 


    We also compete worldwide in the market for broadband data and
    voice products. We believe that we are the leading provider of
    cable modems worldwide, competing with a number of consumer
    electronic companies and various original design manufacturers
    worldwide.


 


    In the wireless networks market, there is widespread competition
    from numerous competitors, ranging from some of the world’s
    largest diversified companies to foreign, state-owned
    telecommunications companies to many small, specialized firms.
    Ericsson is the market leader, followed by the Nokia-Siemens
    joint venture, Alcatel-Lucent, and two vendors with similar
    market share, Motorola and Nortel. Huawei, Samsung, NEC and ZTE
    are also significant competitors.


 


    The segment’s wireless networks business is confronting
    several factors that could impact its business, including price
    competition, continuing consolidation among competitor
    telecommunications equipment providers, a decline in our
    proprietary iDEN business, and vendor financing by competitors
    as customers continue to look to vendors as an additional source
    of financing. The market for GSM access systems has become
    particularly price competitive resulting in significant declines
    in gross margins in the market for those systems during 2006 and
    2007.




Table of Contents





    9



 



    Payment
    Terms


 


    Payment terms vary worldwide, depending on the arrangement.
    Contracts for wireless networks typically include implementation
    milestones, such as delivery, installation and system
    acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to
    complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on the completion
    of the milestone. Customer payments are generally due 30 to
    60 days from the invoice date, and are typically limited to
    90 days in regions outside North America.


 


    As required for competitive reasons, extended payment terms are
    provided to customers from time-to-time on a limited basis. The
    segment’s payment terms are consistent with industry
    practice as many of our contracts are awarded through a
    competitive bid process.


 



    Regulatory
    Matters


 


    Many of our products are subject to regulation by the FCC in the
    United States and other communications regulatory agencies
    around the world. In addition, our customers, and their networks
    into which our products are incorporated, are subject to
    government regulation. Government regulatory policies affecting
    either the willingness or the ability of cable and telecom
    operators, wireless operators and wireline operators to offer
    certain services, or the terms on which these operators offer
    the services and conduct their business, may have a material
    adverse affect on the segment’s results. Motorola has
    developed products using trunking and data communications
    technologies to enhance spectral efficiencies. The growth and
    results of the wireless communications industry may be affected
    by regulations relating to the access to allocated spectrum for
    wireless communications users, especially in urban areas where
    spectrum is heavily used.


 


    Historically, reception of digital television programming from a
    cable broadband network has required a set-top with security
    technology. This security technology has limited the
    availability of set-tops to those manufactured by a few cable
    network manufacturers, including Motorola. FCC regulations
    requiring separation of security functionality from set-tops
    that are aimed at increasing competition and encouraging the
    sale of set-tops in the retail market became effective for most
    customers on July 1, 2007. Traditionally, cable service
    providers sold or leased their set-top to their customer. As the
    retail market develops for set-tops and televisions capable of
    accepting the security modules, sales of our set-tops may be
    negatively impacted.


 


    The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing
    new wireless communications technologies to be developed and
    offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network
    systems, such as WiFi, and wide area network systems, such as
    WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also deregulated portions of
    their available spectrum to allow deployment of these and other
    technologies which can be offered without spectrum license
    costs. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new
    opportunities for Motorola and our customers.


 


    As more fully described under “Enterprise Mobility
    Solutions — Regulatory Matters” beginning on
    page 13 of this
    Form 10-K,
    as television transmission and reception technology transitions
    from analog to more efficient digital modes, various countries
    around the world are examining, and in some cases already
    pursuing, the redevelopment of portions of the television
    spectrum. Certain segments of the spectrum that have
    historically been utilized for analog television have now been
    designated to support new commercial communications systems and,
    therefore, are expected to generate new business opportunities
    for Motorola in wireless and video technologies. In the U.S.,
    the FCC has begun the auction of spectrum in the 700 MHz
    band that will be reclaimed by the government in February 2009.
    License for this spectrum may be used for flexible fixed, mobile
    and broadcast applications. Although the auction winners will
    determine the best utilization of the acquired spectrum, both
    LTE and WiMAX are candidates for technology selection. In
    addition, a contiguous portion of this spectrum has generated
    interest for mobile TV applications.


 



    Backlog


 


    The segment’s backlog was $2.6 billion at
    December 31, 2007, compared to $3.2 billion at
    December 31, 2006. The 2007 order backlog is believed to be
    generally firm and 100% of that amount is expected to be
    recognized as revenue during 2008. The forward-looking estimate
    of the firmness of such orders is subject to future events that
    may cause the amount recognized to change.




Table of Contents





    10



 



    Intellectual
    Property Matters


 


    Patent protection is extremely important to the segment’s
    operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents
    relating to its products, systems, technologies and
    manufacturing processes.


 


    The segment seeks to build upon our core enabling technologies,
    such as digital compression, encryption and conditional access
    systems, and wireless
    air-interface
    technology in order to lead worldwide growth in the market for
    wired and wireless communications networks. Our policy is to
    protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing
    U.S. and foreign patent applications to protect technology
    and improvements that we consider important to the development
    of our business. We also rely on our proprietary knowledge and
    ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our
    competitive position, and will periodically seek to include our
    proprietary technologies in certain patent pools that support
    the implementation of standards. We are a founder of MPEG LA,
    the patent licensing authority established to foster broad
    deployment of MPEG-2 compliant systems. In addition, we have
    licensed our digital conditional access technology,
    DigiCipher®
    II, to other equipment suppliers and have formed joint ventures
    with Comcast for development and licensing of conditional access
    technology.


 


    We also enter into other license agreements, both as licensor
    and licensee, covering certain products and processes with
    various companies. These license agreements require the payment
    of certain royalties that are not expected to be material to the
    segment’s financial results. Royalty and licensing fees
    vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the
    agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to
    licenses. Reference is made to the material under the heading
    “Other Information” for information relating to
    patents and trademarks and research and development activities
    with respect to this segment.


 



    Inventory,
    Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality


 


    The segment’s practice is to carry reasonable amounts of
    inventory in order to meet customer delivery requirements in a
    manner consistent with industry standards. At the end of 2007,
    the segment had lower inventory balances than at the end of
    2006, primarily due to the completion of significant project
    milestones and the sale of the embedded communications computing
    business.


 


    Availability of materials and components required by the segment
    is relatively dependable, but fluctuations in supply and market
    demand could cause selective shortages and affect results. We
    currently source certain materials and components from single
    vendors. Any material disruption from a single-source vendor may
    have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.


 


    Natural gas, electricity, and, to a lesser extent, oil are the
    primary sources of energy required for our manufacturing
    operations, which are currently in generally adequate supply for
    the segments operations. In addition, the cost to operate our
    facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices,
    which increased significantly during 2007 and increased our
    manufacturing and shipping costs. Labor is generally available
    in reasonable proximity to the segment’s manufacturing
    facilities. However, difficulties in obtaining any of the
    aforementioned items or a significant cost increase could affect
    the segment’s results.


 


    Generally, we do not permit customers to return products, other
    than under standard warranty provisions. The segment has not
    experienced seasonal buying patterns for its products.


 



    Our
    Facilities/Manufacturing


 


    Our headquarters is located in Horsham, Pennsylvania. Major
    design, integration, manufacturing and distribution centers are
    located in: Arlington Heights and Schaumburg, Illinois;
    Chandler, Arizona; Fort Worth, Texas; Taipei, Taiwan;
    Nogales, Mexico; Bangalore, India; Swindon, England; Hangzhou
    and Tianjin, China; and Penang, Malaysia. In addition to our own
    manufacturing, we utilize non-affiliated electronics
    manufacturing suppliers and original design manufacturers,
    primarily in Asia, in order to enhance our ability to lower
    costs and/or deliver products that meet consumer demands.


 



    Enterprise
    Mobility Solutions Segment


 


    The Enterprise Mobility Solutions segment (“Enterprise
    Mobility Solutions” or the “segment”) designs,
    manufactures, sells, installs and services analog and digital
    two-way radio, voice and data communications products and
    systems for private networks, wireless broadband systems and
    end-to-end enterprise mobility




Table of Contents





    11




    solutions to a wide range of enterprise markets, including
    government and public safety agencies (which, together with all
    sales to distributors of two-way communication products, is
    referred to as the “government and public safety
    market”), as well as retail, utility, transportation,
    manufacturing, healthcare and other commercial customers (which,
    collectively, are referred to as the “commercial enterprise
    market”). In 2007, the segment’s net sales represented
    21% of the Company’s consolidated net sales.


 



    Principal
    Products and Services


 


    In the government and public safety market, we are the leading
    provider of advanced mission-critical systems worldwide, with
    more than 65 years of experience in custom, rugged devices;
    public safety-grade private networks; sophisticated encryption
    technology; interoperable voice and broadband data; and complex
    network design, optimization and implementation services. In the
    commercial enterprise market, we are a global leader in
    end-to-end enterprise mobility solutions. Our products and
    solutions capture, move and manage information in real time to
    assist our customers in making more efficient business
    decisions. Our products include advanced data capture products,
    mobile computing platforms and software management tools,
    wireless infrastructure, and radio frequency identification
    (“RFID”) infrastructure and tags, and are sold as both
    integrated solutions and individual devices.


 


    The segment’s products are sold through Motorola’s
    direct sales force and through independent and authorized
    distributors, dealers and value-added resellers, original
    equipment manufacturers, service operators and independent
    commission sales representatives. Distributors and value-added
    resellers may provide a service or add components in order to
    resell our product to end users. The segment’s distribution
    organization provides systems engineering and installation and
    other technical and systems management services to meet its
    customers’ particular needs. The customer may also choose
    to install and maintain the equipment with its own employees, or
    may obtain installation, service and parts from a network of the
    segment’s authorized service stations or from other
    non-Motorola service stations.


 



    Our
    Industry


 


    We compete in the mobile segment of the communications industry,
    providing wireless equipment infrastructure and services to
    public safety, government and enterprise customers.


 


    Within our government and public safety market, interoperability
    and natural disaster preparedness continue to be important
    issues for our customers worldwide. We expect this industry to
    grow in the mid-to-high single digit percentage range in 2008,
    consistent with previous years. Our extensive portfolio of
    products includes advanced solutions for each of the major
    standards-based private network technologies, APCO 25
    (Association for Public Safety Communications Officials) and
    TETRA (terrestrial trunked radio), as well as biometrics and
    wireless broadband applications. We expect sales to continue to
    grow worldwide as demand for integrated, interoperable public
    safety communications increases. As new and better spectrum
    utilization evolves, we expect to see more demand and greater
    potential for data applications, such as video surveillance and
    other data-based products, in 2008 and beyond.


 


    Within our commercial enterprise market, we believe there is a
    significant growth opportunity as the global workforce continues
    to become more mobile and the industries and markets that
    purchase our products continue to expand. The markets in which
    Motorola competes include enterprise wireless infrastructure,
    mobile computing solutions, bar code scanning, RFID solutions
    and mobile network management platforms. Organizations looking
    to increase productivity and derive benefits from mobilizing
    their applications and workforces are driving growth in this
    market, which we expect to be in the high single digits in 2008.
    With the acquisition of Symbol Technologies, Inc.
    (“Symbol”) in January 2007, Motorola is well
    positioned to compete effectively in the enterprise space.


 



    Our
    Strategy


 


    Motorola has been a leading provider of mission-critical systems
    in the government and public safety market worldwide for more
    than 65 years. The acquisition of Symbol is the cornerstone
    of the segment’s strategy to expand its leadership into the
    commercial enterprise market. We are using our combined scale to
    maintain and expand our leadership position in these markets
    worldwide by uniting the two companies’ adjacent assets,
    intellectual property, customer and supplier bases, and
    industry-leading products. The combination of our direct sales
    and indirect channel partners provides significant distribution
    advantages in each of the markets we serve.




Table of Contents





    12



 


    In the government and public safety market, our objective is to
    maintain our leading position as the market and technology
    evolves. Key strategies include: (i) continuing investment
    in our analog radio portfolio while leading the ongoing
    migration to digital products, (ii) leveraging our wireless
    broadband portfolio to drive growth and enter new markets,
    (iii) managing the anticipated public/private convergence
    planned for potential 700MHz public safety systems in the U.S.,
    and (iv) continuing to lead the market for APCO 25 and
    TETRA standards-based voice and data networking systems around
    the world.


 


    In the commercial enterprise market, our strategy is to deliver
    products and solutions that are designed to increase cost
    effectiveness, enhance efficiency and promote faster execution
    of critical business processes. Key strategies include offering
    a comprehensive portfolio of products and services to help
    businesses: (i) streamline their supply chains,
    (ii) improve customer service in the field,
    (iii) increase data collection accuracy, and
    (iv) enhance worker productivity.


 



    Customers


 


    Our products and services are sold worldwide to a diverse set of
    customers, including government and public safety agencies
    (police, fire, and emergency management services) and
    militaries, as well as retail, utility, transportation and
    logistics, manufacturing, wholesale and distribution, healthcare
    and other commercial customers. Our sales model emphasizes both
    direct sales by our in-house sales force and indirect sales
    through our channel of value-added resellers and distributors.
    We believe this dual sales approach allows us to meet customer
    needs effectively, build strong, lasting relationships and
    broaden our penetration across various markets. Our channel
    sales force allows us to increase revenues by extending the
    reach of our products and solutions to meet demand in market
    segments where our direct sales force does not sell. Resellers
    and distributors each have their own sales organizations which
    complement and extend our sales organization. With deep
    expertise about specific customers’ operations, resellers
    can be very effective in promoting sales of Motorola products.
    We believe this tiered distribution approach will allow us to
    achieve our goal of maintaining gross margin over time, as we
    drive greater scale from shipping more efficiently through
    better management of our supply chain.


 


    The largest of the segment’s customers are the
    U.S. Government, Scansource, IBM, Ingram Micro and
    Wal-Mart. In
    2007, aggregate net sales to these five customers represented
    approximately 19% of the segment’s net sales. The loss of
    any of the segment’s largest customers may have a material
    adverse effect on the segment’s business. Further, because
    some of these contracts are long-term, the loss of a major
    customer could impact revenue and earnings over several
    quarters. Net sales to customers in North America represented
    62% of the segment’s net sales in 2007.


 


    A majority of our sales were made directly through our in-house
    sales force. However, as noted above, a significant portion of
    our sales are made through resellers and distributors. Our
    largest resellers and distributors are Scansource, IBM and
    Ingram Micro, which primarily sell to the commercial enterprise
    market.


 



    Competition


 


    The businesses in which we operate are highly competitive.
    Continued evolution in the industry, as well as technological
    migration, is opening up the market to increased competition.
    Other key competitive factors include: technology offered;
    price; payment terms; availability of vendor financing; product
    and system performance; product features, quality, delivery,
    availability and warranty; the quality and availability of
    service; company image; relationship with key customers; and
    time-to-market. We believe we are uniquely positioned in the
    industry due to our strong customer relationships, our
    technological leadership and capabilities, and our range of
    offerings.


 


    The segment experiences widespread competition in the government
    and public safety market from a growing number of new and
    existing competitors. In this market, the segment provides
    communications and information systems compliant with both
    existing industry digital standards, APCO 25 and TETRA. Major
    competitors include: M/A-Com, EADS Telecommunications, Kenwood,
    EF Johnson, Cisco and large system integrators.


 


    Competitors in this segment may also serve as a subcontractor to
    a large system integrator and are selected based on a number of
    competitive factors and customer requirements. The segment is
    managing the impact of system integrators seeking to move
    further into the public safety area, specifically in the federal
    government market. Several other competitive factors may have an
    impact on the business, including: the consolidation among
    telecommunications equipment providers; evolving developments in
    the 700 MHz band, and increasing encroachment by broadband
    and IP solution providers. As demand for fully-integrated voice,
    data and broadband systems continues, the segment may face
    additional competition from public telecommunications carriers.




Table of Contents





    13



 


    The commercial enterprise market is highly competitive and
    acutely influenced by advances in technology, industry
    standards, product improvements, new product introductions and
    price competition. Many firms are engaged in the manufacturing
    and marketing of products in bar code reading equipment,
    wireless networks and mobile computing devices. Numerous
    companies, including present manufacturers of scanners, lasers,
    optical instruments, microprocessors, wireless networks,
    notebook computers, handheld devices and telephonic and other
    communication devices, have the technical potential to compete
    with the segment. Competitors such as Intermec, Cisco and Nokia
    deliver products in certain parts of the commercial enterprise
    market.


 



    Payment
    Terms


 


    Payment terms vary worldwide. Generally, contract payment terms
    range from 30 to 60 days from the invoice date within North
    America and are typically limited to 90 days in regions
    outside North America. A portion of the contracts in the
    government and public safety market include implementation
    milestones, such as delivery, installation and system
    acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to
    complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on the completion
    of the milestone.


 


    We generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required
    for competitive reasons, we may provide or work with third-party
    lenders to arrange for long-term financing in connection with
    equipment purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the
    purchase price.


 



    Regulatory
    Matters


 


    The use of wireless voice, data and video communications systems
    requires radio spectrum, which is regulated by governmental
    agencies throughout the world. In the U.S., the FCC and the
    National Telecommunications and Information Administration
    (“NTIA”) regulate spectrum use by non-federal entities
    and federal entities, respectively. Similarly, countries around
    the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and
    implement the rules for use of the radio spectrum, pursuant to
    their respective national laws and international coordination
    under the International Telecommunications Union
    (“ITU”). Consequently, the business and results of
    this segment could be affected by the rules and regulations
    adopted by the FCC, NTIA or regulatory agencies in other
    countries from time to time. The availability of additional
    radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities.
    Regulatory changes in current spectrum bands may also provide
    opportunities or may require modifications to some of our
    products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed.


 


    The segment manufactures and markets products in spectrum bands
    already made available by regulatory bodies. These include voice
    and data infrastructure, mobile radios and portable or handheld
    units. Our products span the public safety, enterprise,
    commercial and consumer markets and operate both on licensed and
    unlicensed spectrum. In addition, new spectrum bands and
    modified regulations provide possible opportunities for new
    business.


 


    As television transmission and reception technology transitions
    from analog to more efficient digital modes, various countries
    around the world are examining, and in some cases already
    pursuing, the redevelopment of portions of the television
    spectrum. In the U.S., pursuant to federal legislation, analog
    television stations must cease operation in the broadcast
    television spectrum by February 17, 2009. The soon-to-be
    available spectrum that has historically been utilized for
    analog television (the so-called “digital dividend”
    spectrum) can provide new opportunities for Motorola and for our
    competitors. In parallel, 108 MHz of spectrum historically
    used for broadcast television is being redeveloped for new uses,
    including broadband and narrowband wireless communications.
    Under rules adopted by the FCC, this portion of the spectrum
    under redevelopment (the 700 MHz band) will support new
    commercial and public safety communications systems. As of
    February 2008, approximately 40 public safety customers are
    already implementing narrowband 700 MHz systems in areas
    where television incumbency is not an issue. Additional agencies
    are expected to deploy systems as broadcast television is
    cleared from the 700 MHz band. The FCC also has made
    provisions for a 700 MHz band nationwide public safety
    broadband network to be built over the next 10 years. In
    addition, segments of the spectrum are being auctioned for
    commercial use and Motorola could see new business opportunities
    as auction winners implement broadband systems on that spectrum.


 


    Internationally, the ITU World Radio Conference held in Geneva
    in November 2007 identified spectrum that could be made
    available as part of a “digital dividend” as
    television transitions from analog to digital technology
    globally. Countries around the world are studying the potential
    size, timing and use of this potentially available spectrum. In
    November 2007, the European Commission issued a statement
    promoting a common European approach to its use. The United
    Kingdom has already decided to redevelop spectrum as a result of
    the digital




Table of Contents





    14




    transition and is making available 112 MHz of spectrum
    through auctions. Canada recently released a consultation
    requesting industry input on making additional spectrum
    available for public safety use in the 700 MHz band. A
    number of other countries around the world have also indicated
    their intention to pursue the availability of digital dividend
    spectrum.


 


    A global focus on enhancing security and “connecting the
    unconnected” is providing new opportunities for
    Motorola’s wireless broadband and RFID products. In
    addition to offering products that operate in licensed
    broadband, Motorola offers wireless broadband solutions that
    operate in bands where no license is required, providing an
    economical means for enhancing connectivity in developing
    countries. Government funding to enhance connectivity in African
    countries is fueling new opportunities for these products.
    Likewise, interest in strengthening border security and global
    tracking and security of products provides greater opportunities
    for Motorola’s RFID products.


 


    In addition, some of our operations use substances regulated
    under various federal, state, local and international laws
    governing the environment and worker health and safety,
    including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the
    ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous
    substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites.
    Certain of our products are subject to various federal, state,
    local and international laws governing chemical substances in
    electronic products.


 



    Backlog


 


    The segment’s backlog was $2.3 billion as of
    December 31, 2007, compared to $2.0 billion as of
    December 31, 2006. The 2007 order backlog is believed to be
    generally firm and approximately 74% of that amount is expected
    to be recognized as revenue during 2008. The forward-looking
    estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future
    events that may cause the amount recognized to change.


 



    Intellectual
    Property Matters


 


    Patent protection is extremely important to the segment’s
    operations. The segment has an extensive U.S. and
    international portfolio of patents relating to its products,
    systems, technologies and manufacturing processes, including
    recent research developments in scanning, information
    collection, network communications and network management. We
    have also filed additional patent applications in the
    U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as well as in foreign
    patent offices.


 


    The segment licenses some of its patents to third parties and
    this revenue is not significant. Motorola is also licensed to
    use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing fees
    vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the
    agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to licenses.


 


    We actively participate in the development of open standards for
    interoperable, mission-critical digital two-way radio systems.
    We have published our technology and licensed patents to
    signatories of the industry’s two primary memorandums of
    understanding defined by the Telecommunications Industry
    Association (“TIA”) Project 25 and European
    Telecommunications Standards Institute (“ETSI”)
    Terrestrial Trunked Radio (“TETRA”).


 


    Notwithstanding the expiration of certain patents and the
    resulting potential for increased competition for certain of our
    products in the future, we believe that our extensive patent
    portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive
    advantage. Furthermore, we believe we are not dependent upon a
    single patent, or a few patents. Our success depends more upon
    our proprietary know-how, innovative skills, technical
    competence and marketing abilities. In addition, because of
    changing technology, our present intention is not to rely
    primarily on patents or other intellectual property rights to
    protect or establish our market position. However, the segment
    continues to litigate against competitors to enforce its
    intellectual property rights in certain technologies and is
    currently involved in several such lawsuits. Reference is made
    to the material under the heading “Other Information”
    for information relating to patents and trademarks and research
    and development activities with respect to this segment.


 



    Inventory,
    Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality


 


    The segment’s practice is to carry reasonable amounts of
    inventory to meet customers’ delivery requirements in a
    manner consistent with industry standards. The segment provides
    custom products which requires the stocking of inventories and
    large varieties of piece parts and replacement parts in order to
    meet delivery and warranty requirements. To the extent
    suppliers’ product life cycles are shorter than the
    segment’s, stocking of lifetime buy




Table of Contents





    15




    inventories is required to meet long-term warranty and
    contractual requirements. In addition, replacement parts are
    stocked for delivery on customer demand within a short delivery
    cycle. At the end of 2007, the segment had a higher inventory
    balance than at the end of 2006, primarily as a result of the
    acquisition of Symbol during 2007.


 


    Availability of materials and components required by the segment
    is relatively dependable, but fluctuations in supply and market
    demand could cause selective shortages and affect results. We
    currently source certain materials and components from single
    vendors. Any material disruption from a single-source vendor may
    have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.


 


    Natural gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the
    primary sources of energy for the segment’s operations,
    which are currently in generally adequate supply for the
    segment’s operations. In addition, the cost to operate our
    facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices,
    which increased significantly during 2007 and increased our
    manufacturing and shipping costs. Labor is generally available
    in reasonable proximity to the segment’s manufacturing
    facilities. However, difficulties in obtaining any of these
    items or a significant cost increase could affect the
    segment’s results.


 


    Generally, the segment’s contracts do not include a right
    of return, other than for standard warranty provisions. For new
    product introductions in our government and public safety
    market, we may enter into milestone contracts providing that the
    product could be returned if we do not achieve the milestones.
    Due to buying patterns in the markets we serve, sales tend to be
    somewhat higher in the fourth quarter.


 



    Our
    Facilities/Manufacturing


 


    Our primary offices are located in Schaumburg, Illinois and
    Holtsville, New York. Major design, integration, manufacturing
    and distribution centers are located in: Holtsville, New York;
    Schaumburg, Illinois; Basingstoke, England; Arad, Israel;
    Tianjin, China; Taunusstein and Berlin, Germany; Reynosa,
    Mexico; McAllen, Texas; Brno, Czech Republic; and Penang,
    Malaysia. In addition to our own manufacturing, we utilize
    non-affiliated electronics manufacturing suppliers, primarily in
    Asia, in order to enhance our ability to lower costs and deliver
    products that meet consumer demands.


 



    Other
    Information


 


    2007 Change in Organizational
    Structure.  Effective as of the second quarter
    of 2007, the Company realigned its operating business segments
    into the following: (i) Mobile Devices, (ii) Home and
    Networks Mobility, and (iii) Enterprise Mobility Solutions.


 


    Financial Information About
    Segments.  The response to this section of
    Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 11,
    “Information by Segment and Geographic Region,” of
    Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data of this document.


 


    Customers.  Motorola has
    several large customers, the loss of one or more of which could
    have a material adverse effect on the Company. Motorola’s
    largest end customers (including sales through distributors) are
    Sprint Nextel, Verizon, China Mobile, AT&T and America
    Movil. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the
    Company’s net sales in 2007.


 


    Approximately 2% of Motorola’s net sales in 2007 were to
    various branches and agencies, including the armed services, of
    the U.S. Government. All contracts with the
    U.S. Government are subject to cancellation at the
    convenience of the Government.


 


    Government contractors, including Motorola, are routinely
    subjected to numerous audits and investigations, which may be
    either civil or criminal in nature. The consequences of these
    audits and investigations may include administrative action to
    suspend business dealings with the contractor and to exclude it
    from receiving new business. In addition, Motorola, like other
    contractors, reviews aspects of its government contracting
    operations, and, where appropriate, takes corrective actions and
    makes voluntary disclosures to the U.S. Government. These
    audits and investigations could adversely affect Motorola’s
    ability to obtain new business from the U.S. Government.




Table of Contents





    16



 


    Backlog.  Motorola’s
    aggregate backlog position for all Motorola segments, as of the
    end of the last two fiscal years was approximately as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    December 31, 2007



 


    $


    5.5 billion


 





    December 31, 2006



 


    $


    6.6 billion


 








 


    Except as previously discussed in this Item 1, the orders
    supporting the 2007 backlog amounts shown in the foregoing table
    are believed to be generally firm, and approximately 89% of the
    backlog on hand at December 31, 2007 is expected to be
    recognized as revenue in 2008. The forward-looking estimate of
    the firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may
    cause the amount recognized to change.


 


    Research and
    Development.  Motorola’s business
    segments participate in very competitive industries with
    constant changes in technology. Throughout its history, Motorola
    has relied, and continues to rely, primarily on its research and
    development (“R&D”) programs for the development
    of new products, and on its production engineering capabilities
    for the improvement of existing products. Technical data and
    product application ideas are exchanged among Motorola’s
    business segments on a regular basis. Management believes,
    looking forward, that Motorola’s commitment to R&D
    programs should allow each of its segments to remain competitive.


 


    R&D expenditures relating to new product development or
    product improvement were $4.4 billion in 2007, compared to
    $4.1 billion in 2006 and $3.6 billion in 2005.
    R&D expenditures increased 8% in 2007 as compared to 2006,
    after increasing 14% in 2006 as compared to 2005. Motorola
    continues to believe that a strong commitment to research and
    development is required to drive long-term growth. Approximately
    27,000 professional employees were engaged in such R&D
    activities during 2007.


 


    Patents and
    Trademarks.  Motorola seeks to obtain patents
    and trademarks to protect our proprietary position whenever
    possible and practical. As of December 31, 2007, Motorola,
    Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries owned approximately
    10,064 utility and design patents in the U.S. and 12,914
    patents in foreign countries. These foreign patents are mostly
    counterparts of Motorola’s U.S. patents, but a number
    result from research conducted outside the U.S. and are
    originally filed in the country of origin. During 2007,
    Motorola, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries were granted
    696 U.S. utility and design patents. Many of the patents
    owned by Motorola are used in its operations or licensed for use
    by others, and Motorola is licensed to use certain patents owned
    by others. Royalty and licensing fees vary from year to year and
    are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of
    the products subject to licenses.


 


    Environmental Quality.  Compliance with
    federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of
    materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
    protection of the environment, has no material effect on capital
    expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of Motorola.


 


    Employees.  At December 31, 2007 and
    December 31, 2006, there were approximately
    66,000 employees of Motorola and its subsidiaries.


 


    Financial Information About Geographic
    Areas.  The response to this section of
    Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 10,
    “Commitments and Contingencies” and Note 11,
    “Information by Segment and Geographic Region” of
    Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data of this document, the “Results of
    Operations—2007 Compared to 2006” and “Results of
    Operations—2006 Compared to 2005” sections of
    Part II, “Item 7: Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” and “Item A: Risk Factors” of
    this document.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We make available free of charge through our website,
    www.motorola.com/investor, our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and all
    amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable
    after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished
    to, the Securities and Exchange




Table of Contents





    17




    Commission (“SEC”). Our reports are also available
    free of charge on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.
    Also available free of charge on our website are the
    following corporate governance documents:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Motorola, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation








     
        • 

    
    Motorola, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws








     
        • 

    
    Motorola, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines








     
        • 

    
    Motorola, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines








     
        • 

    
    Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola, Inc. Board of
    Directors








     
        • 

    
    Motorola Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all
    Motorola employees, including the principal executive officer,
    the principal financial officer and the controller (principal
    accounting officer)








     
        • 

    
    Audit and Legal Committee Charter








     
        • 

    
    Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter








     
        • 

    
    Governance and Nominating Committee Charter





 


    All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also
    be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations,
    Motorola, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road,
    Schaumburg, Illinois 60196,
    E-mail:
    investors@motorola.com, phone:
    1-800-262-8509.
    Our Internet website and the information contained therein or
    incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.




Table of Contents





    18



 




    
    



    
    Item 1A: 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We wish to caution the reader that the following important
    risk factors, and those risk factors described elsewhere in this
    report or our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings,
    could cause our actual results to differ materially from those
    stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document
    and elsewhere.


 


    We operate in highly-competitive markets and our financial
    results will be affected if we are not able to compete
    effectively.


 


    The markets for our products are highly competitive with respect
    to, among other factors: pricing, product features, product and
    service quality, and the time required to introduce new products
    and services. We are constantly exposed to the risk that our
    competitors may implement new technologies before we do, or may
    offer lower prices, additional products or services or other
    incentives that we cannot or will not offer. We can give no
    assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against
    existing or future competitors.


 


    Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new
    products and technologies and our results can be impacted by the
    effectiveness of our significant investments in new products and
    technologies.


 


    The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly
    changing technologies, frequent new product introductions, short
    product life cycles and evolving industry standards. Our success
    depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful
    introduction of new products and upgrades of current products to
    comply with emerging industry standards and to address competing
    technological and product developments carried out by our
    competitors. The research and development of new,
    technologically-advanced products is a complex and uncertain
    process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as
    well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market
    trends. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not
    become widely accepted or are not commercially viable. In
    addition, our products may contain defects or errors that are
    detected only after deployment. If our products are not
    competitive or do not work properly, our business will suffer.


 


    Our results are subject to risks related to our significant
    investment in developing and introducing new products, such as:
    advanced wireless handsets; WiMAX; 4G technologies for wireless
    broadband networks; products for transmission of telephony and
    high-speed data over hybrid fiber coaxial cable systems;
    integrated digital radios; and integrated public safety systems.
    These risks include: (i) difficulties and delays in the
    development, production, testing and marketing of products;
    (ii) customer acceptance of products; (iii) the
    development of, approval and compliance with industry standards;
    (iv) the significant amount of resources we must devote to
    the development of new technology; and (v) the ability to
    differentiate our products and compete with other companies in
    the same markets.


 


    Our success, in part, will be affected by our ability to
    successfully compete in the ever-evolving markets in which we
    participate. We face intense competition in these markets from
    both established companies and new entrants. Product life cycles
    can be short and new products are expensive to develop and bring
    to market.


 


    Our evaluation of structural and strategic realignment
    alternatives for our businesses may have an adverse effect on
    business operations and our assets.


 


    In January 2008, we announced that we are evaluating
    alternatives for the structural and strategic realignment of our
    businesses. This may include the separation of the Mobile
    Devices business from our other businesses. We have not
    determined all structural and strategic alternatives that may be
    available to us, whether we will elect to pursue any such
    strategic alternatives, or what impact any particular strategic
    alternative will have on our business operations or stock price
    if pursued. There are various uncertainties and risks relating
    to our exploration of structural and strategic alternatives that
    could have an adverse effect on our business operations or
    assets, including: (i) exploration of structural and strategic
    alternatives may distract management and disrupt operations,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our operating
    results; (ii) perceived uncertainties as to our future direction
    may result in increased difficulties in recruiting and retaining
    employees, particularly highly qualified employees; (iii)
    perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may have a
    negative impact on our relationships with our customers,
    suppliers, vendors and partners and may result in the loss of
    business opportunities; (iv) the process of exploring strategic
    alternatives may be time consuming and expensive and may result
    in the loss of business opportunities; and (v) we may not be
    able to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic
    alternative undertaken by us.




Table of Contents





    19



 


    We have taken, and continue to take, cost-reduction actions.
    Our ability to complete these actions and the impact of such
    actions on our business may be limited by a variety of factors.
    The cost-reduction actions, in turn, may expose us to additional
    production risk and have an adverse effect on our sales and
    profitability.


 


    We have been reducing costs and simplifying our product
    portfolios in all of our businesses. We have discontinued
    product lines, exited businesses, consolidated manufacturing
    operations, increased manufacturing with third parties and
    reduced our employee population.


 


    The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our sales and
    profitability may be influenced by factors including, but not
    limited to: (i) our ability to successfully complete these
    ongoing efforts; (ii) our ability to generate the level of
    cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to
    effectively compete; (iii) delays in implementation of
    anticipated workforce reductions in highly-regulated locations
    outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia;
    (iv) decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet
    operational targets due to the loss of employees; (v) our
    ability to retain or recruit key employees; (vi) the
    adequacy of our manufacturing capacity, including capacity
    provided by third parties; and (vii) the performance of
    other parties under contract manufacturing arrangements on which
    we rely for the manufacture of certain products, parts and
    components.


 


    All of our businesses have consolidated or exited certain
    facilities and our products are now manufactured in fewer
    facilities than in the past. While we have business continuity
    and risk management plans in place in case capacity is
    significantly reduced or eliminated at a given facility, the
    reduced number of alternative facilities could cause the
    duration of any manufacturing disruption to be longer. As a
    result, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our
    sales and profits could decline.


 


    The demand for our products depends on the continued growth
    of the industries in which we participate. A market decline in
    any one of these industries could have an adverse effect on our
    business.


 


    The rate at which the portions of the telecommunications
    industry in which we participate continue to grow is critical to
    our ability to improve our overall financial performance and we
    could be negatively impacted by a slowdown. Our business was
    very negatively impacted by the economic slowdown and the
    corresponding reduction in capital spending by the
    telecommunications industry from 2001 to 2003.


 


    Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world
    and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are
    not global may not face.


 


    Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and
    approximately half of our net sales are made to customers
    outside the U.S. In addition, we have many manufacturing,
    administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S. and
    more than half of our employees are employed outside the
    U.S. Most of our suppliers are outside the U.S. and
    most of our products are manufactured outside the U.S.


 


    As with all companies that have sizeable sales and operations
    outside the U.S., we are exposed to risks that could negatively
    impact sales or profitability, including but not limited to:
    (i) tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes, customs
    classifications and certifications, including but not limited to
    changes in classifications or errors or omissions related to
    such classifications and certifications; (ii) changes in U.S.
    and non-U.S. rules related to trade, environmental, health and
    safety, technical standards & consumer protection;
    (iii) longer payment cycles; (iv) tax issues, such as
    tax law changes, variations in tax laws from country to country
    and as compared to the U.S., and difficulties in repatriating
    cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner;
    (v) currency fluctuations, particularly in the Euro,
    Chinese renminbi and Brazilian real; (vi) foreign exchange
    regulations, which may limit the Company’s ability to
    convert or repatriate foreign currency; (vii) challenges in
    collecting accounts receivable; (viii) cultural and
    language differences; (ix) employment regulations and local
    labor conditions; (x) difficulties protecting IP in foreign
    countries; (xi) instability in economic or political
    conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or
    anticipated military or political conflicts; (xii) natural
    disasters; (xiii) public health issues or outbreaks;
    (xiv) changes in laws or regulations that adversely impact
    benefits being received by the Company; and (xv) the impact
    of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement
    arrangements.


 


    Many of our products that are manufactured outside the
    U.S. are manufactured in Asia. In particular, we have
    sizeable operations in China, including manufacturing
    operations, and 7% of our net sales are to customers in China.
    The legal system in China is still developing and is subject to
    change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in
    China could be adversely impacted by changes to or
    interpretation of Chinese law. Further, if manufacturing in the
    region is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly
    reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted.




Table of Contents





    20



 


    We also are increasing our presence
    and/or
    selling more of our products in emerging markets such as India
    and Russia. We face challenges in emerging markets, including
    creating demand for our products and the negative impact of
    changes in the laws, or the interpretation of the laws, in those
    countries.


 


    Changes in our development activities, operations or sales in
    non-U.S. markets could result in lost benefits and increase our
    cost of doing business.


 


    The Company has entered into various agreements with
    non-U.S. governments,
    agencies, or similar organizations under which the Company
    receives certain benefits relating to its development
    activities, operations
    and/or sales
    in the jurisdiction. If the Company’s circumstances change
    or development activities, sales or operations are not at levels
    originally anticipated, the Company may be at risk of losing
    some or all of these benefits and increasing our cost of doing
    business.


 


    If the quality of our products does not meet our
    customers’ expectations, then our sales and operating
    earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Occasionally, some of the products we sell have quality issues
    resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from
    the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be
    caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or
    suppliers. Often these issues are identified prior to the
    shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping
    products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by
    customers. Sometimes, we discover quality issues in the products
    after they have been shipped to our customers, distributors or
    end-users, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely
    manner that is the least disruptive to our customers. Such
    pre-shipment and post-shipment quality issues can have legal and
    financial ramifications, including: delays in the recognition of
    revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, customer-imposed
    penalties on Motorola for failure to meet contractual
    requirements, increased costs associated with repairing or
    replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and
    brand name reputation.


 


    In some cases, if the quality issue affects the product’s
    safety or regulatory compliance, then such a
    “defective” product may need to be recalled. Depending
    on the nature of the defect and the number of products in the
    field, it can cause the Company to incur substantial recall
    costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential
    loss of future orders, and the damage to the Company’s
    goodwill or brand/reputation. In addition, the Company may be
    required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for
    failed performance that might exceed the revenue that the
    Company receives from the contracts. Recalls involving
    regulatory agencies can also result in fines and additional
    costs. Finally, recalls can result in third-party litigation,
    including class action litigation by persons alleging common
    harm resulting from the purchase of the products.


 


    If the volume of our sales decrease or do not reach projected
    targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing
    costs that may make our products less competitive.


 


    We have negotiated favorable pricing terms with many of our
    suppliers, some of which have volume-based pricing. In the case
    of volume-based pricing arrangements, we may experience higher
    than anticipated costs if current
    volume-based
    purchase projections are not met. Some contracts have minimum
    purchase commitments and we may incur large financial penalties
    if these commitments are not met. We also may have unused
    production capacity if our current volume projections are not
    met, increasing our cost of production. In the future, as we
    establish new pricing terms, our volume demand could adversely
    impact future pricing from suppliers. All of these outcomes may
    result in our products being more costly to manufacture and less
    competitive.


 


    The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions
    makes budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce demand
    for our products.


 


    Current conditions in the domestic and global economies are
    uncertain. The U.S. involvement in Iraq and other global
    conflicts, including in the Middle East, as well as public
    health issues, have created many economic and political
    uncertainties that have impacted the global economy. As a
    result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth for the
    world economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate
    growth in various parts of the world economy, including the
    markets in which we participate. Because all components of our
    budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth
    in the markets we serve and demand for our products, the
    prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future
    income and expenditures difficult.


 


    We have sizable manufacturing operations and engineering
    resources in Israel that could be disrupted as a result of
    hostilities in the region. We also sell our products and
    services throughout the Middle East and demand for our products
    and services could be adversely impacted by hostilities.




Table of Contents





    21



 


    The future direction of the overall domestic and global
    economies will have a significant impact on our overall
    performance. The potential for future terrorist attacks,
    increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing
    conflicts and public health issues has created worldwide
    uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to
    negatively impact, demand for certain of our products.


 


    Our future operating results depend on our ability to
    purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components
    to meet the demands of our customers.


 


    Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on
    our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality
    materials, parts and components from our suppliers. We have
    experienced shortages in the past that have adversely affected
    our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to
    avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurances that
    we will not encounter these problems in the future. Furthermore,
    certain of our components are available only from a single
    source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify
    sources in a timely manner. A reduction or interruption in
    supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies
    could have a material adverse effect on our businesses.


 


    Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to form
    successful strategic alliances. If these arrangements do not
    develop as expected, our business may be adversely impacted.


 


    We currently partner with industry leaders to meet customer
    product and service requirements and to develop innovative
    advances in design and technology. Some of our partnerships
    allow us to supplement internal manufacturing capacity and share
    the cost of developing next-generation technologies. Other
    partnerships allow us to offer more services and features to our
    customers. If such arrangements do not develop as expected, our
    business could be adversely impacted.


 


    We rely on third-party distributors, representatives and
    retailers to sell certain of our products.


 


    In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products
    through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives
    and retailers. Certain of our distributors or representatives
    may also market other products that compete with our products.
    The loss, termination or failure of one or more of our
    distributors or representatives to effectively promote our
    products, or changes in the financial or business condition of
    these distributors, representatives or retailers, could affect
    our ability to bring its products to market.


 


    We face many risks relating to intellectual property
    rights.


 


    Our business will be harmed if: (i) we, our customers
    and/or our
    suppliers are found to have infringed intellectual property
    rights of third parties, (ii) if the intellectual property
    indemnities in our supplier agreements are inadequate to cover
    damages and losses due to infringement of third-party
    intellectual property rights by supplier products, (iii) if we
    are required to provide broad intellectual property indemnities
    to our customers, or (iv) if our intellectual property
    protection is inadequate to protect our proprietary rights.


 


    Because our products are comprised of complex technology, much
    of which we acquire from suppliers through the purchase of
    components or licensing of software, we are often involved in or
    impacted by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual
    property rights. Third parties have asserted, and in the future
    may assert, intellectual property infringement claims against us
    and against our customers and suppliers. Defending claims may be
    expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and
    employees. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could
    be required to expend significant resources to pay damages,
    develop non-infringing intellectual property or to obtain
    licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of
    such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that any such
    licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on
    commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced
    to stop delivering certain products if we or our customer or
    supplier are subject to a final injunction.


 


    We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property
    indemnities with our suppliers for infringement of third-party
    intellectual property rights, but there is no assurance that we
    will be successful in our negotiations or that a supplier’s
    indemnity will cover all damages and losses suffered by Motorola
    and our customers due to the infringing products or that a
    supplier may choose to accept a license or modify or replace its
    products with non-infringing products which would otherwise
    mitigate such damages and losses. Further, Motorola may not be
    able to participate in intellectual property litigation
    involving a supplier and may not be able to influence any
    ultimate resolution or outcome that may adversely impact
    Motorola’s sales if a court enters an injunction that
    enjoins the supplier’s products or if the International
    Trade Commission issues an exclusionary order that blocks
    Motorola products from importation into the U.S.




Table of Contents





    22



 


    In addition, our customers increasingly demand that we indemnify
    them broadly from all damages and losses resulting from
    intellectual property litigation against them. Because our
    customers often derive much larger revenue streams by reselling
    or leasing our products than we generate from the same products,
    these indemnity claims by our customers have the potential to
    expose us to damages that are much higher than we would be
    exposed to if we were sued directly.


 


    Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important
    competitive tools and may generate income under license
    agreements. We regard our intellectual property rights as
    proprietary and attempt to protect them with patents,
    copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality
    agreements and other methods. We also generally restrict access
    to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite
    these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to
    obtain and use our proprietary information or develop similar
    technology independently. In addition, effective patent,
    copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be
    unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries.
    Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third
    parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our
    intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our
    business.


 


    As we expand our business, including through acquisitions, and
    compete with new competitors in new markets, the breadth and
    strength of our intellectual property portfolio in those new
    areas may not be as developed as in our longer-standing
    businesses. This may expose us to a heightened risk of
    litigation and other challenges from competitors in these new
    markets.


 


    Our future operating results may be negatively impacted if we
    are not successful in licensing our intellectual property.


 


    As part of the business strategy of some of our business
    segments, primarily our Mobile Devices business, we generate
    revenue through the licensing of intellectual property rights.
    The licensed rights include those that are essential to
    telecommunications standards, such as the GSM standard.
    Previously
    agreed-upon
    terms of some of our long-standing license agreements and the
    aging of our essential patent portfolio have reduced our royalty
    revenue over the past several years and are likely to continue
    to reduce that revenue. Uncertainty in the legal environment
    makes it difficult to assure that we will be able to enter into
    new license agreements that will be sufficient to offset that
    reduction in our revenue.


 


    Many of our components and products are designed or
    manufactured by third parties and if third-party manufacturers
    lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant
    changes in the financial or business condition of such
    third-party manufacturers, it may have a material adverse effect
    on our business.


 


    We rely on third-party suppliers for many of the components used
    in our products and we rely on third-party manufacturers to
    manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products. If we
    are not able to engage such manufacturers with the capabilities
    or capacities required by our business, or such third parties
    lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant
    changes in the financial or business condition of such third
    parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.


 


    We also have third-party arrangements for the design or
    manufacture of certain products, parts and components. If we are
    not able to engage such parties with the capabilities or
    capacities required by our business, or these third parties fail
    to deliver quality products, parts and components on time and at
    reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our
    orders and our sales and profits could decline.


 


    There is no guarantee that design wins will become actual
    orders and sales.


 


    A “design win” occurs when a customer or prospective
    customer notifies us that our product has been selected to be
    integrated with the customer’s product. There can be delays
    of several months or more between the design win and when a
    customer initiates actual orders. The design win may never
    become an actual order or sale. Further, if the customer’s
    plans change, we may commit significant resources to design wins
    that do not result in actual orders. If design wins do not
    result in actual sales, our business could be adversely affected.


 


    We may not continue to have access to the capital markets to
    obtain long-term and short-term financing on acceptable terms
    and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are
    downgraded.


 


    From time to time we access the long-term and short-term capital
    markets to obtain financing. Although we believe that we can
    continue to access the capital markets in 2008 on acceptable
    terms and conditions, our access and the availability of
    acceptable terms and conditions are impacted by many factors,
    including: (i) our credit ratings, which have been lowered
    in 2007 and 2008; (ii) the liquidity of the overall capital
    markets, which has




Table of Contents





    23




    been negatively impacted by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage
    situation; and (iii) the current state of the economy,
    including the telecommunications industry. There can be no
    assurances that we will continue to have access to the capital
    markets on terms acceptable to us.


 


    Our debt ratings are considered “investment grade.” If
    our credit ratings were to decline two levels from the current
    Fitch and S&P ratings, the Company’s long-term debt
    would no longer be considered investment grade and our financial
    flexibility would be reduced and our cost of borrowing would
    increase. Some of the factors that impact our credit ratings,
    including the overall economic health of the telecommunications
    industry and the U.S. economy, are outside of our control. There
    can be no assurances that our current credit ratings will
    continue.


 


    Our commercial paper is rated
    “A-2/P-2/F-2.”
    Our A-2 and
    F-2 ratings
    include a “watch negative.” Although we currently have
    access to the commercial paper markets, there can be no
    assurances that we will continue to have access to the
    commercial paper markets on terms acceptable to us.


 


    We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility
    if we are not able to meet the conditions to borrowing in our
    facility.


 


    We view our existing five-year revolving domestic credit
    facility as a source of available liquidity. This facility
    contains various conditions, covenants and representations with
    which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. We have
    never borrowed under this facility or previous domestic
    revolving credit facilities. However, if we wish to borrow under
    this facility in the future, there can be no assurance that we
    will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and
    representations.


 


    We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other
    companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce
    significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to
    integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from
    the acquisitions.


 


    In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth
    opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic
    acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties.
    These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty
    in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an
    efficient and effective manner; (ii) the challenges in
    achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits
    from acquisitions; (iii) the risk that our markets do not
    evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not
    prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets;
    (iv) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired
    businesses; (v) the risk of diverting the attention of
    senior management from our operations; (vi) the risks of
    entering new markets in which we have limited experience;
    (vii) risks associated with integrating financial reporting
    and internal control systems; (viii) difficulties in
    expanding information technology systems and other business
    processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and
    (ix) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business.


 


    Acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate
    may carry higher relative valuations (based on their earnings)
    than we do. This is particularly evident in software and
    services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher
    valuation than Motorola may be dilutive to our earnings,
    especially when the acquired business has little or no revenue.
    In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly
    dilutive to near-term earnings and have, in the past, foregone
    certain of these acquisitions.


 


    Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial
    value in connection with a transaction in the form of
    change-in-control
    agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of
    restrictions on other equity- based compensation rights. To
    retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we
    may offer additional retention incentives, but it may still be
    difficult to retain certain key employees.


 


    Our future operating results may be negatively impacted if we
    do not execute a successful silicon and software strategy for
    our Mobile Devices business.


 


    As part of our ongoing effort to improve the product portfolio
    of our Mobile Devices business, we are in the process of
    transitioning our silicon and software platforms to lower our
    cost to produce devices and to enable richer consumer
    experiences. Failure to execute this transition in a timely and
    effective manner may cause us to be competitively disadvantaged
    in many areas, including but not limited to, cost, time to
    market and the ability to ramp-up production in a timely fashion
    with acceptable quality and improved/additional features.




Table of Contents





    24



 


    The value of our investments in the securities of various
    companies fluctuates and it may be difficult for us to realize
    the value of these investments.


 


    We hold a portfolio of investments in various companies. Since
    the majority of these securities represent investments in
    technology companies, the fair market values of these securities
    are subject to significant price volatility. In addition, the
    realizable value of these securities is subject to market and
    other conditions.


 


    We also have invested in numerous privately-held companies, many
    of which can still be considered in startup or developmental
    stages. These investments are inherently risky as the market for
    the technologies or products they have under development are
    typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We
    could lose all or substantially all of the value of our
    investments in these companies, and in some cases have.


 


    The Sigma Fund, an investment fund owned by the Company, holds
    U.S. Dollar-denominated debt obligations which include
    corporate bonds and asset- and mortgage-backed securities. The
    fair value of these holdings may experience temporary or
    other-than-temporary declines due to the widening credit spreads
    in several debt market segments and impairment if the underlying
    debtor should default on its obligations.


 


    If we are unable to purchase sufficient credit insurance, our
    business may be negatively impacted.


 


    We purchase a large amount of credit insurance to mitigate some
    of our credit risks. Our ability to sell certain of our
    receivables could be negatively impacted if we are not able to
    continue to purchase credit insurance in certain countries and
    in sufficient quantities. In addition, our success in certain
    countries may be dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient
    credit insurance.


 


    It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of
    highly-skilled employees that are necessary to remain
    competitive.


 


    Competition for key technical personnel in high-technology
    industries is intense. We believe that our future success
    depends in large part on our continued ability to hire,
    assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified
    engineers and other highly-skilled personnel needed to compete
    and develop successful new products. We may not be as successful
    as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and
    utilizing these highly-skilled personnel. In particular, we may
    have more difficulty attracting or retaining highly-skilled
    personnel during periods of poor operating performance.


 


    The unfavorable outcome of litigation pending or future
    litigation could materially impact the Company.


 


    Our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by
    unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation. See
    “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” There can be no
    assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation. In
    addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation and these
    costs could negatively impact our financial results.


 


    We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and
    safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws.


 


    Our operations and the products we manufacture
    and/or sell
    are subject to a wide range of global laws. Compliance with
    existing or future laws could subject us to future costs or
    liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our
    ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, and generally
    impact our financial performance. Some of these laws relate to
    the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to hazardous
    substances. In the United States, laws often require parties to
    fund remedial studies or action regardless of fault. Motorola
    continues to incur disposal costs and has ongoing remediation
    obligations. Changes to U.S. environmental laws or our
    discovery of additional obligations under these laws could have
    a negative impact on Motorola.


 


    Over the last several years, laws focused on: the energy
    efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of
    both electronic products and packaging; and reducing or
    eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products
    have expanded significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility
    features of electronic products, standardization of connectors
    and power supplies, sound levels of music playing devices, and
    other aspects are also proliferating.


 


    These laws impact our products and make it more expensive to
    manufacture and sell product. It may also be difficult to comply
    with the laws in a timely way and we may not have compliant
    products available in the quantities requested by our customers,
    thereby impacting our sales and profitability.


 


    We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate
    increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction
    or elimination of certain hazardous constituents from products,
    increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional
    accessibility.




Table of Contents





    25



 


    We may provide financing and financial guarantees to our
    customers, some of which may be for significant amounts.


 


    The competitive environment in which we operate may require us
    to provide long-term customer financing to a customer in order
    to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may include
    all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and
    services. In some circumstances, these loans, leases and
    extended payment terms can be very large. We also provide
    revolving, short-term financing to certain customers and
    distributors that purchase our equipment. We may also assist
    customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources
    and may also provide financial guarantees on behalf of our
    customers. Our success, particularly in our infrastructure
    businesses, may be dependent, in part, upon our ability to
    provide customer financing on competitive terms and on our
    customers’ creditworthiness.


 


    While we have generally been able to place a portion of our
    customer financings with third-party lenders, a portion of these
    financings are supported directly by us. There can be higher
    risks of default associated with some of these financings,
    particularly when provided to
    start-up
    operations such as local network providers, customers in
    developing countries, or customers in specific
    financing-intensive areas of the industry (such as 3G wireless
    operators). Should customers fail to meet their obligations on
    new or existing loans, losses could be incurred and such losses
    could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, our
    sales to such customers or distributors could be reduced in the
    event of real or perceived issues about the credit quality of
    the customer or distributor.


 


    We are exposed to risks under large multi-year system
    contracts that may negatively impact our business.


 


    We enter into large multi-year system contracts with large
    customers. This exposes us to risks, including: (i) the
    technological risks of such contracts, especially when the
    contracts involve new technology, and (ii) financial risks
    under these contracts, including the estimates inherent in
    projecting costs associated with large contracts and the related
    impact on operating results. We are also facing increasing
    competition from traditional system integrators and the defense
    industry as system contracts become larger and more complicated.
    Political developments also can impact the nature and timing of
    these large contracts.


 


    It is important that we are able to obtain many different
    types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance
    we are forced to retain the risk.


 


    The Company has many types of insurance coverage and also
    self-insures for some risks and obligations. The insurance
    market was disrupted after the events of September 11, 2001
    and the 2005 hurricanes. While the cost and availability of most
    insurance has stabilized, there are still certain types and
    levels of insurance that remain unavailable. Natural disasters
    and certain risks arising from securities claims and public
    liability are potential self-insured events that could
    negatively impact our financial performance.


 


    Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the
    growth of the wireless communications industry or reduce
    barriers to entry for new competitors.


 


    Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The
    allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and
    other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to
    wireless services. The growth of the wireless and personal
    communications industry may be affected: (i) by regulations
    relating to the access to allocated spectrum for wireless
    communication users, especially in urban areas, (ii) if adequate
    frequencies are not allocated, or (iii) if new technologies are
    not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently
    allocated for such use. Industry growth has been and may
    continue to be affected by the cost of new licenses required to
    use frequencies and any related frequency relocation costs.


 


    The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing
    new wireless communications technologies to be developed and
    offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network
    systems, such as WiFi, mesh technologies and wide area network
    systems, such as WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also
    deregulated portions of their available spectrum to allow
    deployment of these and other technologies, which can be offered
    without spectrum license costs. Deregulation may introduce new
    competition and new opportunities for Motorola and our customers.


 


    Changes in government policies and laws or economic
    conditions may adversely affect our financial results.


 


    Our results may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and
    fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of
    U.S. and
    non-U.S. governments,
    agencies and similar organizations. Our results may also be
    affected by social and economic conditions, which impact our
    operations, including in emerging markets in Asia, India, Latin
    America and Eastern Europe, and in markets subject to ongoing
    political hostilities and war, including the Middle East.




Table of Contents





    26



 


    In addition, the laws and regulations that apply directly to
    access to, or commerce on, the Internet are still evolving. We
    could be adversely affected by any such regulation in any
    country where we operate. The adoption of such measures could
    decrease demand for our products and at the same time increase
    the cost of selling such products.


 


    Consolidations in both the cable and telecommunication
    industries may adversely impact our business.


 


    The cable and telecommunication industries have experienced
    consolidation and this trend is expected to continue according
    to industry estimates. Industry consolidation could result in
    delays of purchases or in the selection of new suppliers by the
    merged companies. This could adversely effect equipment
    suppliers like Motorola and our competitors. Due to continuing
    consolidation within the cable and telecommunications industries
    worldwide, a small number of operators own a majority of cable
    television systems and account for a significant portion of the
    capital spending made by cable telecommunications systems
    operators.


 


    Recent FCC regulations requiring separation of security
    functionality from set-tops could negatively impact our sales of
    set-tops.


 


    Historically, reception of digital television programming from a
    cable broadband network has required a set-top with security
    technology. As a result, sourcing of these set-tops was
    traditionally limited to a few cable network manufacturers,
    including Motorola. FCC regulations requiring separation of
    security functionality from set-tops that are aimed to increase
    competition and encourage the sale of set-tops in the retail
    market became effective for most customers on July 1, 2007.
    Traditionally, cable service providers sold or leased the
    set-top to their customer. As the retail market develops for
    set-tops and televisions capable of accepting the security
    modules, sales of our set-tops may be negatively impacted.


 


    We rely on complex information technology systems and
    networks to operate our business. Any significant system or
    network disruption could have a material adverse impact on our
    operations, sales and operating results.


 


    We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex
    information technology systems and networks some of which are
    within Motorola and some are outsourced. All information
    technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or
    interruption from a variety of sources, including but not
    limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts,
    natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication
    failures. There also may be system or network disruptions if new
    or upgraded business management systems are defective or are not
    installed properly. We have implemented various measures to
    manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but
    a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our
    operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur
    additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these
    disruptions or security breaches.


 


    Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile.


 


    Our share price has been volatile due, in part, to generally
    volatile securities markets, and the volatility in the
    telecommunications and technology companies’ securities
    markets in particular. Factors other than our financial results
    that may affect our share price include, but are not limited to,
    market expectations of our performance, capital spending plans
    of our customers, and the level of perceived growth in the
    industries in which we participate.


 


    The level of returns on pension and retirement plan assets
    could affect our earnings in future periods.


 


    The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by
    the performance of the financial markets, particularly the
    equity markets, and interest rates. Funding obligations are
    determined under government regulations and are measured each
    year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific
    date. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term
    returns that are expected under the governmental funding
    calculations we could be required to make larger contributions.
    The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very
    volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution
    requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods
    of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact our
    contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment,
    the likelihood of required contributions in the future increases.


 


    The outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of
    our income tax returns by the IRS could impact our financial
    results.


 


    We are subject to continued examination of our income tax
    returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax
    authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse
    outcomes resulting from these examinations to




Table of Contents





    27




    determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There
    can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing
    examinations will not have an adverse effect on future operating
    results.


 


    We face risks related to ongoing patent-related disputes
    between Qualcomm and Broadcom.


 


    Motorola is a purchaser of CDMA EV-DO baseband processor chips
    and chipsets from Qualcomm Incorporated (“Qualcomm”),
    and we recently announced an intention to design certain of
    Qualcomm’s W-CDMA chipsets into certain of our 3G handsets.
    Qualcomm and Broadcom Corporation (“Broadcom”) are
    engaged in several patent-related legal actions. In certain of
    these actions, Broadcom is seeking orders to ban the importation
    into the U.S. of Qualcomm’s infringing EV-DO and
    W-CDMA baseband processor chipsets and certain
    “downstream” products that contain them (including
    Motorola handsets)
    and/or limit
    Qualcomm’s ability to provide certain services and products
    in the U.S. relating to such infringing chipsets. A final
    outcome adverse to Qualcomm in any of the patent-related legal
    actions could have a material adverse impact on Motorola’s
    performance by making it difficult, more expensive or impossible
    for Motorola to make
    and/or
    import products destined for the U.S. market that use
    certain infringing Qualcomm chipsets. While we continue to work
    with Qualcomm and others on contingency plans relating to these
    cases, there is no guarantee that such plans will prove
    successful or avoid further legal challenge.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B