Item 1A of this annual
    report on
    Form 10-K
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, which describe
    risks and factors that could cause results to differ materially
    from those projected in those forward-looking statements.


 


    We caution the reader that the above list of risks and
    factors that may affect results addressed in the forward-looking
    statements may not be exhaustive. Other sections of this annual
    report on
    Form 10-K
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and other
    documents incorporated by reference may describe additional
    risks or factors that could adversely impact our business and
    financial performance. We operate in a continually changing
    business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to
    time. Management cannot predict these new risk factors, nor can
    it assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our
    businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of
    factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from
    those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly,
    forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a
    prediction of actual results.




    
    3



Table of Contents





 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 


    We are a leading global supplier of precision instruments and
    services. We have strong leadership positions in all of our
    businesses and believe we hold global number-one market
    positions in a majority of them. Specifically, we are the
    largest provider of weighing instruments for use in laboratory,
    industrial and food retailing applications. We are also a
    leading provider of analytical instruments for use in life
    science, reaction engineering and real-time analytic systems
    used in drug and chemical compound development and process
    analytics instruments used for in-line measurement in production
    processes. In addition, we are the largest supplier of
    end-of-line
    inspection systems used in production and packaging for food,
    pharmaceutical and other industries.


 


    Our business is geographically diversified, with net sales in
    2009 derived 41% from Europe, 35% from North and South America
    and 24% from Asia and other countries. Our customer base is also
    diversified by industry and by individual customer.


 


    Mettler-Toledo International Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware
    corporation in 1991 and became a publicly traded company with
    its initial public offering in 1997.


 



    Business
    Segments


 


    We have five reportable segments: U.S. Operations, Swiss
    Operations, Western European Operations, Chinese Operations and
    Other. See Note 17 to the audited consolidated financial
    statements and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under
    “Results of Operations — by Operating
    Segment” included herein for detailed results by segment
    and geographic region.


 


    We manufacture a wide variety of precision instruments and
    provide value-added services to our customers. Our principal
    products and principal services are set forth below. We have
    followed this description of our products and services with
    descriptions of our customers and distribution, sales and
    service, research and development, manufacturing and certain
    other matters. These descriptions apply to substantially all of
    our products and related segments.


 



    Laboratory
    Instruments


 


    We make a wide variety of precision laboratory instruments,
    including laboratory balances, pipettes, titrators, thermal
    analysis systems and other analytical instruments. The
    laboratory instruments business accounted for approximately 46%
    of our net sales in 2009 and 44% in both 2008 and 2007.


 



    Laboratory
    Balances


 


    Our laboratory balances have weighing ranges from one
    ten-millionth of a gram up to 64 kilograms. To cover a wide
    range of customer needs and price points, we market our balances
    in a range of product tiers offering different levels of
    functionality. Based on the same technology platform, we also
    manufacture mass comparators, which are used by weights and
    measures regulators as well as laboratories to ensure the
    accuracy of reference weights. Laboratory balances are primarily
    used in the pharmaceutical, food, chemical, cosmetics and other
    industries.


 


    Recently, we introduced Quantos, an automated powder dosing
    solution for small sample sizes, which is controlled and
    monitored by the balance. The first step in sample preparation
    for analytical methods is precise weighing of substances, which
    has traditionally been done by hand using a spatula. The Quantos
    dosing system offers automated measuring performance of 200
    grams to 0.005 milligrams.


 



    Pipettes


 


    Pipettes are used in laboratories for dispensing small volumes
    of liquids. We operate our pipette business with the Rainin
    brand name. Rainin develops, manufactures and distributes
    advanced pipettes, tips and accessories, including single- and
    multi-channel manual and electronic pipettes. Rainin maintains
    service centers in the key markets where customers periodically
    send their pipettes for certified recalibrations. Rainin’s
    principal end markets are pharmaceutical, biotech and academia.




    
    4



Table of Contents






    Analytical
    Instruments


 


    Titrators measure the chemical composition of samples and are
    used in environmental and research laboratories as well as in
    quality control labs in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage
    and other industries. Our high-end titrators are multi-tasking
    models, which can perform two determinations simultaneously on
    multiple vessels. Our offering includes robotics to automate
    routine work in quality control applications.


 


    Thermal analysis systems measure material properties as a
    function of temperature, such as weight, dimension, energy flow
    and viscoelastic properties. Thermal analysis systems are used
    in nearly every industry, but primarily in the plastics and
    polymer industries and increasingly in the pharmaceutical
    industry.


 


    pH meters measure acidity in laboratory samples. We also sell
    density and refractometry instruments, which measure chemical
    concentrations in solutions. In addition, we manufacture and
    sell moisture analyzers, which precisely determine the moisture
    content of a sample by utilizing an infrared dryer to evaporate
    moisture.


 



    Laboratory
    Software


 


    LabX, our PC-based laboratory software platform, manages and
    analyzes data generated by our balances, titrators, pH meters,
    moisture analyzers and other analytical instruments. LabX
    provides full network capability; has efficient, intuitive
    protocols; and enables customers to collect and archive data in
    compliance with the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration’s traceability requirements for
    electronically stored data (also known as 21 CFR
    Part 11).


 



    Automated
    Chemistry Solutions


 


    Our current automated chemistry solutions focus on selected
    applications in the chemical and drug discovery process. Our
    automated lab reactors and in situ analysis systems are
    considered integral to the process development and
    scale-up
    activities of our customers. Our on-line measurement
    technologies based on infrared and laser light scattering
    enables customers to monitor chemical reactions and
    crystallization processes in real time in the lab and plant. We
    believe that our portfolio of integrated technologies can bring
    significant efficiencies to the development process, enabling
    our customers to bring new chemicals and drugs to market faster.


 



    Process
    Analytics


 


    Our process analytics business provides instruments for the
    in-line measurement of liquid parameters used primarily in the
    production process of pharmaceutical, biotech, beverage,
    microelectronics, chemical and refining companies. Approximately
    half of our process analytics sales are to the pharmaceutical
    and biotech markets, where our customers need fast and secure
    scale-up and
    production that meets the validation processes required for GMP
    (Good Manufacturing Processes) and other regulatory standards.
    We are a leading solution provider for liquid analytical
    measurement to control and optimize production processes. Our
    solutions include sensor technology for measuring pH, dissolved
    oxygen, carbon dioxide, conductivity, turbidity, ozone and total
    organic carbons and automated systems for calibration and
    cleaning of measurement points. Intelligent sensor diagnostics
    capabilities enable improved asset management solutions for our
    customers to reduce process downtime and maintenance costs. Our
    instruments offer leading multi-parameter capabilities and
    plant-wide control system integration, which are key for
    integrated measurement of multiple parameters to secure
    production quality and efficiency. With a worldwide network of
    specialists, we support customers in critical process
    applications, compliance and systems integration questions.


 



    Industrial
    Instruments


 


    We manufacture numerous industrial weighing instruments and
    related terminals and offer dedicated software solutions for the
    pharmaceutical, chemical, food and other industries. In
    addition, we manufacture metal detection and other
    end-of-line
    inspection systems used in production and packaging. We supply
    automatic identification and data capture solutions, which
    integrate in-motion weighing, dimensioning and identification
    technologies for transport, shipping and logistics customers. We
    also offer heavy industrial scales and related software. The
    industrial instruments business accounted for approximately 42%
    of our net sales in 2009 and 43% in both 2008 and 2007.




    
    5



Table of Contents






    Industrial
    Weighing Instruments


 


    We offer a comprehensive line of industrial scales and balances,
    such as bench scales and floor scales, for weighing loads from a
    few grams to several thousand kilograms in applications ranging
    from measuring materials in chemical production to weighing
    packages. Our products are used in a wide range of applications,
    such as counting applications and in formulating and mixing
    ingredients.


 



    Industrial
    Terminals


 


    Our industrial scale terminals collect data and integrate it
    into manufacturing processes, helping to automate them. Our
    terminals allow users to remotely download programs or access
    setup data and can minimize downtime through predictive rather
    than reactive maintenance.


 



    Transportation
    and Logistics


 


    We are a leading global supplier of automatic identification and
    data capture solutions, which integrate in-motion weighing,
    dimensioning and identification technologies. With these
    solutions, customers can measure the weight and cubic volume of
    packages for appropriate billing, logistics and quality control.
    Our solutions also integrate into customers’ information
    systems.


 



    Vehicle Scale
    Systems


 


    Our primary heavy industrial products are scales for weighing
    trucks or railcars (i.e., weighing bulk goods as they enter or
    leave a factory or at a toll station). Heavy industrial scales
    are capable of measuring weights up to 500 tons and permit
    accurate weighing under extreme environmental conditions. We
    also offer advanced computer software that can be used with our
    heavy industrial scales to facilitate a broad range of customer
    solutions and provides a complete system for managing vehicle
    transaction processing.


 



    Industrial
    Software


 


    We offer software that can be used with our industrial
    instruments. Examples include FreeWeigh.Net, statistical quality
    control software, Formweigh.Net, our formulation/batching
    software and OverDrive, which supports the operation of vehicle
    scales. FreeWeigh.Net and Formweigh.Net provide full network
    capability and enable customers to collect and archive data in
    compliance with 21 CFR Part 11.


 



    Product
    Inspection


 


    Increasing safety and consumer protection requirements are
    driving the need for more sophisticated
    end-of-line
    inspection systems (e.g., for use in food processing and
    packaging, pharmaceutical and other industries). We are a
    leading global provider of metal detectors, x-ray visioning
    equipment and checkweighers that are used in these industries.
    Metal detectors are most commonly used to detect fine particles
    of metal that may be contained in raw materials or may be
    generated by the manufacturing process itself. X-ray-based
    vision inspection helps detect non-metallic contamination, such
    as glass, stones and pits, which enter the manufacturing process
    for similar reasons. Our x-ray systems can also detect metal in
    metallized containers and can be used for mass control.
    Checkweighers are used to control the filling content of
    packaged goods such as food, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics. Both
    x-ray and metal detection systems may be used together with
    checkweighers as components of integrated packaging lines. We
    also provide vision inspection solutions that provide in-line
    inspection of package quality and content and enable our
    customers to implement traceability and serialization tracking,
    which are needs for food and beverage, consumer goods and
    pharmaceutical companies. FreeWeigh.Net is our statistical and
    quality control software that optimizes package filling,
    monitors weight-related data and integrates it in real time into
    customers’ enterprise resource planning
    and/or
    process control systems.


 



    Retail Weighing
    Solutions


 


    Supermarkets, hypermarkets and other food retail businesses make
    use of multiple weighing and food labeling solutions for
    handling fresh goods (such as meats, vegetables, fruits and
    cheeses). We offer stand-alone scales for basic counter weighing
    and pricing, price finding and printing. In addition, we offer
    networked scales and software, which can integrate backroom,
    counter, self-service and checkout functions and can incorporate
    fresh goods item data into a supermarket’s overall food
    item and inventory management





    
    6



Table of Contents





    system. Customer benefits are in the areas of pricing,
    merchandising, inventory management and regulatory compliance.
    Our instruments have been expanded to allow in-store marketing
    which permits customers to make more decisions at the point of
    sale. The retail business accounted for approximately 12% of our
    net sales in 2009 and 13% in both 2008 and 2007.


 



    Retail
    Software


 


    Our subsidiary SofTechnics provides retail software for in-store
    item and inventory management solutions. SofTechnics’
    offerings complement our retail weighing solutions to food
    retailers by providing the full scope of real-time item
    management. Retailers can then match local store inventory
    levels with local customer demand. Our instruments have been
    expanded to allow in-store marketing which permits customers to
    make more decisions at the point of sale.


 



    Customers and
    Distribution


 


    Our principal customers include companies in the following key
    end markets: the life science industry (pharmaceutical and
    biotech companies, as well as independent research
    organizations); food and beverage producers; food retailers;
    chemical, specialty chemicals and cosmetics companies; the
    transportation and logistics industry; the metals industry; the
    electronics industry; and the academic community.


 


    Our products are sold through a variety of distribution
    channels. Generally, more technically sophisticated products are
    sold through our direct sales force, while less complicated
    products are sold through indirect channels. Our sales through
    direct channels exceed our sales through indirect channels. A
    significant portion of our sales in the Americas is generated
    through the indirect channels, including sales of our
    “Ohaus” branded products. Ohaus branded products
    target markets, such as the educational market, in which
    customers are interested in lower cost, a more limited set of
    features and less comprehensive support and service.


 


    We have a diversified customer base, with no single customer
    accounting for more than 1% of 2009 net sales.


 



    Sales and
    Service


 



    Market
    Organizations


 


    We maintain geographically focused market organizations around
    the world that are responsible for all aspects of our sales and
    service. The market organizations are customer-focused, with an
    emphasis on building and maintaining value-added relationships
    with customers in our target market segments. Each market
    organization has the ability to leverage best practices from
    other units while maintaining the flexibility to adapt its
    marketing and service efforts to account for different cultural
    and economic conditions. Market organizations also work closely
    with our producing organizations (described below) by providing
    feedback on manufacturing and product development initiatives,
    new product and application ideas and information about key
    market segments.


 


    We have one of the largest and broadest global sales and service
    organizations among precision instrument manufacturers. At
    December 31, 2009, our sales and services group consisted
    of approximately 5,300 employees in sales, marketing and
    customer service (including related administration) and
    post-sales technical service, located in 35 countries. This
    field organization has the capability to provide service and
    support to our customers and distributors in major markets
    across the globe. This is important because our customers
    increasingly seek to do business with a consistent global
    approach.


 



    Service


 


    Our service business remains successful with a focus on repair
    services as well as further expansion of our offerings to
    include value-added services for a range of market needs,
    including regulatory compliance qualification, calibration,
    certification and preventative maintenance. We have a unique
    offering to our pharmaceutical customers in promoting use of our
    instruments in compliance with FDA regulations, and we can
    provide these services regardless of the customer’s
    location around the world. This global service network is also
    an important factor in our ability to expand in emerging
    markets. We estimate that we have the largest installed base of
    weighing instruments in the world. Service (representing service
    contracts, repairs





    
    7



Table of Contents





    and replacement parts) accounted for approximately 25% of our
    net sales in 2009, 22% in 2008 and 23% in 2007. A significant
    portion of this amount is derived from the sale of replacement
    parts.


 


    Beyond revenue opportunities, we believe service is a key part
    of our solution offering and helps significantly in customer
    retention. The close relationships and frequent contact with our
    large customer base provide us with sales opportunities and
    innovative product and application ideas.


 



    Research and
    Development and Manufacturing


 



    Producing
    Organizations


 


    Our research, product development and manufacturing efforts are
    organized into a number of producing organizations. Our focused
    producing organizations help reduce product development time and
    costs, improve customer focus and maintain technological
    leadership. The producing organizations work together to share
    ideas and best practices, and there is a close interface and
    coordinated customer interaction among marketing organizations
    and producing organizations.


 



    Research and
    Development


 


    We continue to invest in product innovation to provide
    technologically advanced products to our customers for existing
    and new applications. Over the last three years, we have
    invested $284.3 million in research and development
    ($89.7 million in 2009, $102.3 million in 2008 and
    $92.4 million in 2007). In 2009, we spent approximately
    5.2% of net sales on research and development. Our research and
    development efforts fall into two categories:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    technology advancements, which generate new products and
    increase the value of our products. These advancements may be in
    the form of enhanced or new functionality, new applications for
    our technologies, more accurate or reliable measurement,
    additional software capability or automation through robotics or
    other means, which allow us to design products more specific to
    the needs of the industries we serve, and




 



     
        • 

    
    cost reductions, which reduce the manufacturing cost of our
    products through better overall design.





 


    We devote a substantial proportion of our research and
    development budget to software development. This includes
    software to process the signals captured by the sensors of our
    instruments, application-specific software and software that
    connects our solutions into customers’ existing IT systems.
    We closely integrate research and development with marketing,
    manufacturing and product engineering. We have approximately
    1,000 employees in research and development and product
    engineering in countries around the globe.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    We are a worldwide manufacturer, with facilities principally
    located in China, Germany, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and
    the United States. Laboratory instruments are produced mainly in
    Switzerland and to a lesser extent in the United States and
    China, while our remaining products are manufactured worldwide.
    We emphasize product quality in our manufacturing operations,
    and most of our products require very strict tolerances and
    exact specifications. We use an extensive quality control system
    that is integrated into each step of the manufacturing process.
    All major manufacturing facilities have achieved ISO 9001
    certification. We believe that our manufacturing capacity is
    sufficient to meet our present and currently anticipated demand.


 


    We generally manufacture only critical components, which are
    components that contain proprietary technology. When outside
    manufacturing is more efficient, we contract with other
    manufacturers for certain nonproprietary components. We use a
    wide range of suppliers. We believe our supply arrangements are
    adequate and that there are no material constraints on the
    sources and availability of materials. From time to time we may
    rely on a single supplier for all of our requirements of a
    particular component. Supply arrangements for electronic
    components are generally made globally.


 



    Backlog;
    Seasonality


 


    Our manufacturing turnaround time is generally short, which
    permits us to manufacture orders to fill for most of our
    products. Backlog is generally a function of requested customer
    delivery dates and is typically no longer than one to two months.




    
    8



Table of Contents





    Our business has historically experienced a slight amount of
    seasonal variation, particularly the high-end laboratory
    instruments business. Traditionally, sales in the first quarter
    are slightly lower than, and sales in the fourth quarter are
    slightly higher than, sales in the second and third quarters.
    Fourth quarter sales have historically generated approximately
    26% to 30% of our net sales. This trend has a somewhat greater
    effect on income from operations than on net sales because fixed
    costs are spread evenly across all quarters.


 



    Employees


 


    Our total workforce including employees and temporary personnel
    as of December 31, 2009, was approximately 10,400
    throughout the world, including approximately 4,100 in Europe,
    3,000 in North and South America and 3,300 in Asia and other
    countries.


 


    We believe our employee relations are good, and we have not
    suffered any material employee work stoppage or strike during
    the last five years. Labor unions do not represent a meaningful
    number of our employees.


 



    Blue Ocean
    Program


 


    “Blue Ocean” refers to our program to establish a new
    global operating model, with standardized, automated and
    integrated processes, with high levels of global data
    transparency. It will encompass a new enterprise architecture,
    with a global, single instance ERP system. Within our IT systems
    we are moving toward integrated, homogeneous applications and
    common data structures. We will also largely standardize our key
    business processes. The implementation of the systems and
    processes will proceed on a staggered basis over a several year
    period with the initial go-live rollout occurring in early 2010.
    We expect capitalized project costs in the first phase to exceed
    $100 million, and expect our annual capital expenditures
    will continue to be approximately $60 million until Blue
    Ocean is completed. These amounts may change based upon
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We expect the return on
    this investment when complete to include reduced operating costs
    and working capital requirements.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    We hold over 3,500 patents and trademarks (including pending
    applications), primarily in the United States, Switzerland,
    Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, France, Japan, China, South
    Korea, Brazil and India. Our products generally incorporate a
    wide variety of technological innovations, some of which are
    protected by patents of various durations. Products are
    generally not protected as a whole by individual patents, and as
    a result, no one patent or group of related patents is material
    to our business. We have numerous trademarks, including the
    Mettler-Toledo name and logo, which are material to our
    business. We regularly protect against infringement of our
    intellectual property.


 



    Regulation


 


    Our products are subject to various regulatory standards and
    approvals by weights and measures regulatory authorities. All of
    our electrical components are subject to electrical safety
    standards. We believe that we are in compliance in all material
    respects with applicable regulations.


 


    Approvals are required to ensure our instruments do not
    impermissibly influence other instruments and are themselves not
    affected by other instruments. In addition, some of our products
    are used in “legal for trade” applications, in which
    prices based on weight are calculated and for which specific
    weights and measures approvals are required. Although there are
    a large number of regulatory agencies across our markets, there
    is an increasing trend toward harmonization of standards, and
    weights and measures regulation is harmonized across the
    European Union.


 


    Our products may also be subject to special requirements
    depending on the end-user and market. For example, laboratory
    customers are typically subject to Good Laboratory Practices
    (GLP), industrial customers to Good Manufacturing Practices
    (GMP), pharmaceutical customers to U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA) regulations, and customers in food
    processing industries may be subject to Hazard Analysis and
    Critical Control Point (HACCP) regulations. Products used in
    hazardous environments may also be subject to special
    requirements.




    
    9



Table of Contents






    Environmental
    Matters


 


    We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the
    jurisdictions in which we operate. We own or lease a number of
    properties and manufacturing facilities around the world. Like
    many of our competitors, we have incurred, and will continue to
    incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in
    complying with such laws and regulations.


 


    We are currently involved in, or have potential liability with
    respect to, the remediation of past contamination in certain of
    our facilities. Our former subsidiary Mettler-Toledo Hi-Speed,
    Inc. (“Hi-Speed”) was one of two private parties
    ordered to perform certain ground water contamination monitoring
    under an administrative consent order that the New Jersey
    Department of Environmental Protection (“NJDEP”)
    signed on June 13, 1988 with respect to certain property in
    Landing, New Jersey. GEI International Corporation
    (“GEI”) is the other ordered party. GEI has failed to
    fulfill its obligations under the NJDEP consent order, and NJDEP
    has agreed with Hi-Speed that the residual ground water
    contaminants can be monitored through the establishment of a
    Classification Exception Area and concurrent Well Restriction
    Area for the site. The NJDEP does not view these vehicles as
    remedial measures, but rather as “institutional
    controls” that must be adequately maintained and
    periodically evaluated. We estimate that the costs of compliance
    associated with monitoring ground water contamination levels at
    the site will be approximately $0.5 million in the coming
    years.


 


    In addition, certain of our present and former facilities have
    or had been in operation for many decades and, over such time,
    some of these facilities may have used substances or generated
    and disposed of wastes which are or may be considered hazardous.
    It is possible that these sites, as well as disposal sites owned
    by third parties to which we have sent wastes, may in the future
    be identified and become the subject of remediation. Although we
    believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable
    environmental requirements and, to date, we have not incurred
    material expenditures in connection with environmental matters,
    it is possible that we could become subject to additional
    environmental liabilities in the future that could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.


 



    Competition


 


    Our markets are highly competitive. Many of the markets in which
    we compete are fragmented both geographically and by
    application, particularly the industrial and food retailing
    markets. As a result, we face numerous regional or specialized
    competitors, many of which are well established in their
    markets. For example, some of our competitors are divisions of
    larger companies with potentially greater financial and other
    resources than our own. In addition, some of our competitors are
    domiciled in emerging markets and may have a lower cost
    structure than ours. We are confronted with new competitors in
    emerging markets who, although relatively small in size today,
    could become larger companies in their home markets. Given the
    sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets,
    and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets,
    emerging market competitors could become more significant global
    competitors. Taken together, the competitive forces present in
    our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product
    lines and geographic markets.


 


    We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and
    performance of their products and to introduce new products with
    competitive prices. Although we believe that we have
    technological and other competitive advantages over many of our
    competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these
    advantages. These advantages include our worldwide market
    leadership positions; our global brand and reputation; our track
    record of technological innovation; our comprehensive,
    high-quality solution offering; our global sales and service
    offering; our large installed base of weighing instruments; and
    the diversification of our revenue base by geographic region,
    product range and customer. To remain competitive, we must
    continue to invest in research and development, sales and
    marketing and customer service and support. We cannot be sure
    that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these
    investments or that we will be successful in identifying,
    developing and maintaining any competitive advantages.


 


    We believe the principal competitive factors in developed
    markets for purchasing decisions are the product itself,
    application support, service support and price. In emerging
    markets, where there is greater demand for less sophisticated
    products, price is a more important factor than in developed
    markets.





    
    10



Table of Contents





    Competition in the U.S. laboratory market is also
    influenced by the presence of large distributors that sell not
    only our products but those of our competitors as well.


 



    Company Website
    and Information


 


    Our website can be found on the Internet at www.mt.com.
    The website contains information about us and our operations.
    Copies of each of our filings with the SEC on
    Form 10-K,
    Form 10-Q,
    Form 8-K
    and Schedule 14A and all amendments to those reports can be
    viewed and downloaded free of charge when they are filed with
    the SEC by accessing www.mt.com, clicking on About Us,
    Investor Relations and then clicking on SEC Filings.
    These filings may also be read and copied at the SEC’s
    Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the
    Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains a website at
    http://www.sec.gov
    that contains reports, proxy and information statements and
    other information regarding issuers that file electronically
    with the SEC.


 


    Our website also contains copies of the following documents that
    can be downloaded free of charge:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Corporate Governance Guidelines




 



     
        • 

    
    Audit Committee Charter




 



     
        • 

    
    Compensation Committee Charter




 



     
        • 

    
    Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter




 



     
        • 

    
    Code of Conduct





 


    Any of the above documents and any of our reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Form 10-Q,
    Form 8-K
    and Schedule 14A and all amendments to those reports can
    also be obtained in print, free of charge, by sending a written
    request to our Investor Relations Department:


 


    Investor Relations



    Mettler-Toledo International Inc.



    1900 Polaris Parkway



    Columbus, OH 43240 U.S.A.



    Phone: +1 614 438 4748



    Fax: +1 614 438 4646



    E-mail:
    mary.finnegan@mt.com




    
    11



Table of Contents






 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Factors Affecting
    Our Future Operating Results


 



    The majority of
    our business is derived from companies in developed countries.
    The current economic downturns or recessions in these countries
    may continue to adversely affect our operating
    results.


 


    Although the percentage of our sales coming from emerging
    markets is growing, the majority of our business is still
    derived from companies in developed countries. Because our
    customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures in
    difficult economic times, economic downturns or recessions in
    developed countries adversely affect our operating results.
    During 2009 we have experienced significant decreases and delays
    in customer expenditures, which may continue and possibly
    worsen. Customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by
    competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after
    economic conditions improve. These conditions would reduce our
    revenues and profitability.


 



    We are subject to
    certain risks associated with our international operations and
    fluctuating conditions in emerging markets.


 


    We conduct business in many countries, including emerging
    markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, and these
    operations represent a significant portion of our sales and
    earnings. For example, our Chinese operations account for
    $232.6 million of sales to external customers and
    $69.4 million of segment profit. In addition to the
    currency risks discussed below, international operations pose
    other substantial risks and problems for us. For instance,
    various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or
    alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. In
    addition, we may encounter one or more of the following
    obstacles or risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    tariffs and trade barriers;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing local operations
    and/or
    mandatory salary increases for local employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local
    customers and distributors;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in protecting intellectual property;




 



     
        • 

    
    nationalization of private enterprises may result in the
    confiscation of assets as we hold significant assets around the
    world in the form of property, plant and equipment, inventory
    and accounts receivable, as well as $40.1 million of cash
    at December 31, 2009 in our Chinese subsidiaries;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions on investments
    and/or
    limitations regarding foreign ownership;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or
    increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other
    payments by subsidiaries; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions,
    including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no
    productivity growth.





 


    We must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the
    conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies.
    For example, converting earnings from our operations in China
    into other currencies and repatriating these funds require
    governmental approvals. If we cannot comply with these or other
    applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in
    utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of
    China.


 


    Economic conditions in emerging markets deteriorated
    significantly during 2009 and experienced recessionary trends,
    particularly in Eastern Europe. Certain emerging markets have
    also experienced severe currency devaluations and inflationary
    prices. Economic problems in individual markets can also spread
    to other economies, adding to the adverse conditions we may face
    in emerging markets. We remain committed to emerging markets,
    particularly those in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe.
    However, we expect fluctuating economic conditions may continue
    to affect our results of operations in these markets for the
    foreseeable future.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    We operate in
    highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve
    operating margins, gain market share and maintain a
    technological advantage.


 


    Our markets are highly competitive. Many of the markets in which
    we compete are fragmented both geographically and by
    application, particularly the industrial and food retailing
    markets. As a result, we face numerous regional or specialized
    competitors, many of which are well established in their
    markets. In addition, some of our competitors are divisions of
    larger companies with potentially greater financial and other
    resources than our own. Some of our competitors are domiciled or
    operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure
    than ours. We are confronted with new competitors in emerging
    markets who, although relatively small in size today, could
    become larger companies in their home markets. Given the
    sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets,
    and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets,
    emerging market competitors could become more significant global
    competitors. Taken together, the competitive forces present in
    our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product
    lines and geographic markets. We expect our competitors to
    continue to improve the design and performance of their products
    and to introduce new products with competitive prices. Although
    we believe that we have certain technological and other
    advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize
    and maintain these advantages.


 



    Our product
    development efforts may not produce commercially viable products
    in a timely manner.


 


    We must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely
    manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete
    over time, which would harm our operating results. To remain
    competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in
    research and development, sales and marketing and customer
    service and support. We cannot be sure that we will have
    sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. In
    developing new products, we may be required to make substantial
    investments before we can determine their commercial viability.
    As a result, we may not be successful in developing new products
    and we may never realize the benefits of our research and
    development activities.


 



    Our ability to
    deliver products and services may be disrupted.


 


    An interruption in our business due to events such as natural
    disasters, pandemics or other health crises, fires, explosions
    or issues with the supply chain may cause us to temporarily be
    unable to deliver products or services to our customers. It may
    be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these
    risks are covered by insurance policies. More importantly,
    customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us
    even if we resolve the interruption.


 



    A widespread
    outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively
    affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to
    meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in
    reduced demand from our customers.


 


    A number of countries have recently experienced outbreaks of the
    H1N1 influenza (swine flu). A number of countries in the Asia
    Pacific region have also experienced outbreaks of SARS
    and/or avian
    influenza (bird flu) in recent years. Despite the implementation
    of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. As
    a result of such outbreaks, businesses can be shut down and
    individuals can become ill or quarantined. Outbreaks of
    infectious diseases such as these, particularly in North
    America, Europe, China or other locations significant to our
    operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations, business or prospects. If our
    operations are curtailed because of health issues, we may need
    to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and
    these alternate sources may be more expensive. Alternate sources
    may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our
    customers, each of which would affect our results of operations.
    In addition, a curtailment of our product design operations
    could result in delays in the development of new products.
    Further, if our customers’ businesses are affected by
    health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases from us,
    which could adversely affect our results of operations.




    
    13



Table of Contents






    We are vulnerable
    to system failures, which could harm our business.


 


    We rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions,
    to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services,
    support our customers, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make
    payments. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption
    from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures,
    terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer
    denial-of-service
    attacks and other events. When we upgrade or change systems, we
    may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced
    functionality. A significant number of our systems are not
    redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient
    for every eventuality. Despite any precautions we may take, such
    problems could result in, among other consequences,
    interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation
    and financial condition. We do not carry business interruption
    insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result
    from interruptions in our services as a result of system
    failures.


 


    We also are in the process of implementing our Blue Ocean
    program, a program to globalize our business processes and
    information technology systems that includes the implementation
    of a Company-wide enterprise resource planning system. The
    implementation of this program will proceed on a staggered basis
    over a several year period with the initial go-live rollout
    occurring in early 2010. If the implementation of any unit is
    flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and
    customer-facing activities which could harm our reputation and
    financial condition, lose data, experience reduced functionality
    or have delays in reporting financial information. It may take
    us longer to implement the Blue Ocean program than we have
    planned for, and the project may cost us more than we have
    estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability
    to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. In addition, the
    implementation of Blue Ocean will increase our reliance on a
    single information technology system which would have greater
    consequences should we experience a system disruption.


 



    A prolonged
    downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical,
    food, food retailing and chemical industries could adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    Our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food
    and beverage and chemical industries. Consolidation in the
    pharmaceutical and chemical industries hurt our sales in prior
    years. A prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation
    in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating
    results. In addition, the capital spending policies of our
    customers in these industries are based on a variety of factors
    we cannot control, including the resources available for
    purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various
    types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures.
    Any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would
    cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability.


 



    We may face risks
    associated with future acquisitions.


 


    We may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines,
    technologies or businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks,
    including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired
    operations, technologies and products; diversion of
    management’s attention from other business concerns; and
    potential departures of key employees of the acquired company.
    If we successfully identify acquisitions in the future,
    completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our
    stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our
    debt and contingent liabilities and additional amortization
    expenses related to intangible assets. Any of these
    acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse affect
    on our profitability.


 


    Larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments
    as businesses they will consider entering, which could change
    the competitive dynamics of these markets. In addition, we may
    not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate
    potential acquisitions in the future. However, even if we can do
    so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a
    positive impact on our business or operating results.




    
    14



Table of Contents






    If we cannot
    protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or
    misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating
    results could be harmed.


 


    Our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents
    on our technology, maintain our trademarks and protect our trade
    secrets. Our patents may not provide complete protection, and
    competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by
    our patents. Our patents may also be challenged by third parties
    and invalidated or narrowed. Competitors sometimes seek to take
    advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create
    customer confusion or weaken our brand. Although we take
    measures to protect confidential information, improper use or
    disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur.


 


    We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property
    rights of others. The cost of any litigation could affect our
    profitability regardless of the outcome, and management
    attention could be diverted. If we are unsuccessful in such
    litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing
    activity
    and/or
    obtain a license. If we fail to obtain a required license, we
    may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result
    in a decline in our revenues.


 



    Departures of key
    employees could impair our operations.


 


    We generally have employment contracts with each of our key
    employees. Our executive officers own shares of our common stock
    and/or have
    options to purchase additional shares. Nevertheless, such
    individuals could leave the Company. If any key employees
    stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed.
    Important R&D personnel may leave and join competitors,
    which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development
    projects. We have no key man life insurance policies with
    respect to any of our senior executives.


 



    We may be
    adversely affected by environmental laws and
    regulations.


 


    We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations,
    including those relating to air emissions, wastewater
    discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous
    wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the
    use and disposal of hazardous substances.


 


    We incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and
    regulations. We are currently involved in, or have potential
    liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination
    in various facilities. In addition, some of our facilities are
    or have been in operation for many decades and may have used
    substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are
    hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. These
    sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste
    may in the future be identified as contaminated and require
    remediation. Accordingly, it is possible that we could become
    subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future
    that may harm our results of operations or financial condition.


 



    We may be
    adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of
    governmental agencies or by the adoption of new
    regulations.


 


    Our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies.
    These regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating
    to our products, from design and development, to product safety,
    labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. If
    we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations
    are adopted that substantially change existing practice or
    impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease
    their manufacture and distribution. In addition, we could be
    subject to fines or criminal prosecution.


 



    We may experience
    impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, our consolidated balance sheet
    included goodwill of $441.0 million and other intangible
    assets of $105.3 million.


 


    Our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other
    intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period
    amortization expense and possible impairment expense. The
    determination of the





    
    15



Table of Contents





    value of such intangible assets requires management to make
    estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial
    statements.


 


    In accordance with U.S. GAAP, our goodwill and
    indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are
    evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more
    frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that
    an asset might be impaired. The evaluation is based on valuation
    models that estimate fair value based on expected future cash
    flows and profitability projections. In preparing the valuation
    models we consider a number of factors, including operating
    results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows,
    and transactions and market data. There are inherent
    uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in
    applying them to the impairment analyses. The significant
    estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include
    sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth,
    effective tax rates and discount rates. Our assessments to date
    have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets.


 


    Should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should
    we incur
    lower-than-expected
    operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged
    economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that
    requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units,
    possibly prior to the required annual assessment. These types of
    events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges
    for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the
    fair value estimate declines below the carrying value.


 


    Our amortization expense related to intangible assets with
    finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their
    useful lives change.


 



    Unanticipated
    changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax
    liabilities could impact our profitability.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
    various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and
    international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of
    expenses among different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates
    could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by
    jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the
    valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and material
    adjustments from tax audits.


 


    In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which
    are predominantly in the U.S., is dependent upon our ability to
    generate future taxable income in the U.S. In addition, the
    amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in
    various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing
    tax authority could affect our profitability.


 



    Currency
    fluctuations affect our operating profits.


 


    Because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating
    income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates. Swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a
    much greater percentage of our total operating expenses than
    Swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our total net sales.
    In part, this is because most of our manufacturing costs in
    Switzerland relate to products that are sold outside
    Switzerland. Moreover, a substantial percentage of our research
    and development expenses and general and administrative expenses
    are incurred in Switzerland. Therefore, if the Swiss franc
    strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies
    (e.g., the U.S. dollar, the euro, other major
    European currencies, the Chinese yuan and the Japanese yen), our
    operating profit is reduced. We also have significantly more
    sales in European currencies (other than the Swiss franc) than
    we have expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European
    currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar and the Swiss
    franc, it also decreases our operating profits. Accordingly, the
    Swiss franc exchange rate to the euro is an important cross-rate
    that we monitor. In recent years, we have seen higher volatility
    in exchange rates generally than in the past, and the Swiss
    franc has strengthened against the euro. We estimate that a 1%
    strengthening of the Swiss franc against the euro would result
    in a decrease in our earnings before tax of $1.1 million to
    $1.4 million on an annual basis. In addition to the Swiss
    franc and major European currencies, we also conduct business in
    many geographies throughout the world, including Asia Pacific,
    Eastern Europe,





    
    16



Table of Contents





    Latin America and Canada. Fluctuations in these currency
    exchange rates against the U.S. dollar can also affect our
    operating results. In addition to the effects of exchange rate
    movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate
    due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the
    U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc. Based on our outstanding
    debt at December 31, 2009, we estimate that a 10% weakening
    of the U.S. dollar against the currencies in which our debt
    is denominated would result in an increase of approximately
    $7.1 million in the reported U.S. dollar value of the
    debt.


 



    We have
    substantial debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which
    could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may
    otherwise restrict our activities.


 


    We have substantial debt and we may incur substantial additional
    debt in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we had total
    indebtedness of approximately $208.5 million, net of cash
    of $85.0 million. We are also permitted by the terms of our
    debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness,
    subject to the restrictions therein.


 


    The existence and magnitude of our debt could have important
    consequences. For example, it could make it more difficult for
    us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments;
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to
    payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of
    cash flow available to fund working capital, capital
    expenditures, product development and other corporate
    requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse
    economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw
    material costs; limit our ability to respond to business
    opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds,
    which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other
    restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these
    covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result
    in an event of default under our debt instruments.


 


    In the current difficult environment, our creditors can be
    expected to strictly enforce the terms of our debt instruments.
    Although we believe we are currently in compliance with all
    requirements under the agreements governing our debt, if we fail
    to comply in the future with a requirement, our access to our
    credit facility and ability to borrow further may be limited. In
    such circumstances, we may not be able to refinance our existing
    debt or only be able to do so at significantly higher costs.


 



    The agreements
    governing our debt impose restrictions on our
    business.


 


    The indenture and note purchase agreement governing our senior
    notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain
    covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. These
    restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and
    may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business
    opportunities as they arise. The restrictions these covenants
    place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens
    and consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all
    of our assets. Our credit facility and the note purchase
    agreement governing our senior notes also require us to meet
    certain financial ratios.


 


    Our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by
    events beyond our control, including prevailing economic,
    financial and industry conditions, and are subject to the risks
    in this section. The breach of any of these covenants or
    restrictions could result in a default under the indenture or
    note purchase agreement governing the senior notes
    and/or under
    our credit facility. An event of default under the agreements
    governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare
    all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately
    due and payable. Acceleration of our other indebtedness may
    cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior
    notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes.


 



    The lenders under
    our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding
    commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing
    capacity.


 


    We have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the
    Company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to
    $950 million. Our credit facility is provided by a group of
    20 financial institutions, who individually have between 1% and
    11% of the total funding commitment. At December 31, 2009,
    we had borrowings of $91.1 million outstanding under our
    credit facility. Our ability to borrow further funds under our
    credit facility is subject to the various lenders’
    financial condition and ability to make funds available.





    
    17



Table of Contents





    Even though the financial institutions are contractually
    obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders
    encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders
    may be unable to meet their obligations. This could result in
    the Company being unable to borrow the full $950 million.


 



    We make from time
    to time forward-looking statements, and actual events or results
    may differ materially from these statements because assumptions
    we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our
    industries or other factors.


 


    We from time to time provide forward-looking statements both in
    our filings with the SEC and orally in connection with our
    quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated
    earnings per share. These statements are only predictions.
    Actual events or results may differ materially from these
    statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due
    to market conditions in our industries or other factors. We
    refer you to the factors discussed under the captions
    “Factors affecting our future operating results” in
    the “Business” section and the “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” section of this annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    which describe risks and factors that could cause results to
    differ materially from those projected in those forward-looking
    statements. We operate in a continually changing business
    environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.
    Management cannot predict these new risk factors, nor can it
    assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our
    businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of
    factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from
    those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly,
    forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a
    prediction of actual results.


 


    In providing guidance on our future earnings our management
    evaluates our budgets, our strategic plan and certain factors
    relating to our business. This evaluation requires management to
    make several key assumptions relating to both external and
    internal factors. Some of the key external assumptions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the outlook for our end markets and the global economy;




 



     
        • 

    
    impact of external factors on our competition;




 



     
        • 

    
    financial position of our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the estimated costs of purchasing materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments in personnel costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    rates for currency exchange, particularly between the Swiss
    franc and the euro.





 


    Some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time.
    For example, although no one customer accounts for more than 1%
    of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced
    significant deteriorations in their financial positions
    concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of
    operations.


 


    Some of our key internal assumptions include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to implement our business strategy;




 



     
        • 

    
    effectiveness of our marketing programs such as our Spinnaker
    initiatives;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and
    services;




 



     
        • 

    
    continued growth in our sales in emerging markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the effectiveness of our cost saving initiatives, including our
    restructuring activities.





 


    These internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over
    time. For example, with respect to our ability to realize our
    planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in
    core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets,
    price tends to be a more significant factor in customers’
    decisions to purchase our products. Furthermore, we can have no
    assurance that our cost reduction programs will





    
    18



Table of Contents





    generate adequate cost savings. Additionally, it may become
    necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in
    additional restructuring costs.


 


    We believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent
    for planning purposes. However, should any of these assumptions
    prove to be incorrect, or should we incur
    lower-than-expected
    operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results
    different than our projections.


 



    Our ability to
    generate cash depends on factors beyond our control.


 


    Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned
    capital expenditures and research and development efforts will
    depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to
    an extent, is subject to general economic, financial,
    competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors,
    including those described in this section, that are beyond our
    control.


 


    We cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash
    flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available
    to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to
    enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs.
    We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on
    or before maturity. We cannot ensure that we will be able to
    refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the
    senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all.




    
    19



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    Item 1B