Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Factors affecting
    our future operating results


 



    We are subject to
    certain risks associated with our international operations and
    fluctuating conditions in emerging markets.


 


    We conduct business in many countries, including emerging
    markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe and these
    operations represent a significant potion of our sales and
    earnings. For example our Chinese Operations account for
    $132.7 million of sales to external customers and
    $45.2 million of segment profit. In addition to the
    currency risks discussed below, international operations pose
    other substantial risks and problems for us. For instance,
    various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or
    alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. In
    addition, we may encounter one or more of the following
    obstacles or risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    tariffs and trade barriers;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing local operations,
    and/or
    mandatory salary increases for local employees;



 


     
        • 

    
    credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local
    customers and distributors;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulties in protecting intellectual property;



 


     
        • 

    
    nationalization of private enterprises may result in the
    confiscation of assets as we hold significant assets around the
    world in the form of property, plant and equipment, inventory
    and accounts receivable, as well as $55 million of cash at
    December 31, 2006 in our Chinese subsidiaries;



 


     
        • 

    
    restrictions on investments
    and/or
    limitations regarding foreign ownership;



 


     
        • 

    
    adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of
    withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by
    subsidiaries; and



 


     
        • 

    
    other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions,
    including hyper-inflationary conditions, or periods of low or no
    productivity growth.





 


    We must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the
    conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies.
    For example, converting earnings from our operations in China
    into other currencies and repatriating these funds require
    governmental approvals. If we cannot comply with these or other
    applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in
    utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of
    China.


 


    Economic conditions in emerging markets have from time to time
    deteriorated significantly, and some emerging markets are
    experiencing recessionary trends, severe currency devaluations
    and inflationary prices. Moreover, economic problems in
    individual markets can spread to other economies, adding to the
    adverse conditions we face in emerging markets. We remain
    committed to emerging markets, particularly those in Asia, Latin
    America and Eastern Europe. However, we expect the fluctuating
    economic conditions will affect our results of operations in
    these markets for the foreseeable future.


 



    We operate in
    highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve
    operating margins, gain market share and maintain a
    technological advantage.


 


    Our markets are highly competitive. Weighing and analytical
    instruments markets are also fragmented both geographically and
    by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing
    markets. As a result, we face numerous regional or specialized
    competitors, many of whom are well established in their markets.
    In addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger
    companies with potentially greater financial and other resources
    than our company. Taken together, the competitive forces present
    in our markets can impair our operating margins in certain
    product lines and geographic markets. We expect our competitors
    to continue to improve the design and performance of their
    products and to introduce new products with



    
    11



Table of Contents




    competitive prices. Although we believe that we have certain
    technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may
    not be able to realize and maintain these advantages.


 



    Our product
    development efforts may not produce commercially viable products
    in a timely manner.


 


    We must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely
    manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete
    over time, which would harm our operating results. To remain
    competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in
    research and development, sales and marketing, and customer
    service and support. We cannot be sure that we will have
    sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. In
    developing new products, we may be required to make substantial
    investments before we can determine their commercial viability.
    As a result, we may not be successful in developing new products
    and we may never realize the benefits of our research and
    development activities.


 



    Our ability to
    deliver products and services may be disrupted.


 


    An interruption in our business due to acts such as natural
    disasters, fires, explosions, or issues with the supply chain
    may cause us to temporarily be unable to deliver products or
    services to our customers. It may be expensive to resolve these
    issues, even though we hold certain insurance. More importantly,
    customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us
    even if we resolve the interruption.


 



    A prolonged
    downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical,
    food, food retailing and chemicals industries could adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    Our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food
    and beverage and chemical industries. Consolidation in the
    pharmaceutical and chemicals industries hurt our sales in prior
    years. A prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in any
    of these industries could adversely affect our operating
    results. In addition, the capital spending policies of our
    customers in these industries are based on a variety of factors
    we cannot control, including the resources available for
    purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various
    types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures.
    Any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would
    cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability.


 



    We may face risks
    associated with future acquisitions.


 


    We may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines,
    technologies or businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks,
    including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired
    operations, technologies and products; diversion of
    management’s attention from other business concerns; and
    potential departures of key employees of the acquired company.
    If we successfully identify acquisitions in the future,
    completing such acquisitions may result in: new issuances of our
    stock that may be dilutive to current owners; increases in our
    debt and contingent liabilities; and additional amortization
    expenses related to intangible assets. Any of these
    acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse affect
    on our profitability.


 


    Larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments
    as businesses they will consider entering, which could change
    the competitive dynamics of these markets. In addition, we may
    not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate
    potential acquisitions in the future. However, even if we can do
    so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a
    positive impact on our business or operating results.


 



    If we cannot
    protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or
    misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating
    results could be harmed.


 


    Our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents
    on our technology and to protect our trade secrets. Our patents
    may not provide complete protection, and competitors may develop
    similar products that are not covered by our patents. Our
    patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated
    or narrowed. Although we take measures to protect confidential
    information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may
    still occur.



    
    12



Table of Contents



 


    We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property
    rights of others. The cost of any litigation could affect our
    profitability regardless of the outcome, and management
    attention could be diverted. If we are unsuccessful in such
    litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing
    activity
    and/or
    obtain a license. If we fail to obtain a required license, we
    may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result
    in a decline in our revenues.


 



    Departures of key
    employees could impair our operations.


 


    We have employment contracts with each of our key employees. In
    addition, our key employees own shares of our common stock
    and/or have
    options to purchase additional shares. Nevertheless, such
    individuals could leave the Company. If any key employees
    stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. We have
    no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our
    senior executives.


 



    We may be
    adversely affected by environmental laws and
    regulations.


 


    We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations,
    including those relating to: air emissions; wastewater
    discharges; the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous
    wastes; and the remediation of contamination associated with the
    use and disposal of hazardous substances.


 


    We incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and
    regulations. We are currently involved in, or have potential
    liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination
    in various facilities. In addition, some of our facilities are
    or have been in operation for many decades and may have used
    substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are
    hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. These
    sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste
    may in the future be identified as contaminated and require
    remediation. Accordingly, it is possible that we could become
    subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future
    that may harm our results of operations or financial condition.


 



    We may be
    adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of
    governmental agencies.


 


    Our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies.
    These regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating
    to our products, from design and development, to labeling,
    manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. If we fail to
    comply with these regulations, we may have to recall products
    and cease their manufacture and distribution. In addition, we
    could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution.


 



    We may experience
    impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, our consolidated balance sheet
    included goodwill of $432.9 million and other intangible
    assets of $102.8 million.


 


    Our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other
    intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period
    amortization expense and possible impairment expense that we
    will incur. The determination of the value of such intangible
    assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect our consolidated financial statements.


 


    In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), our
    goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not
    amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the
    fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. The
    evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value
    based on expected future cash flows and profitability
    projections. In preparing the valuation models we consider a
    number of factors, including operating results, business plans,
    economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and
    market place data. There are inherent uncertainties related to
    these factors and our judgment in applying them to the
    impairment analyses. The significant estimates and assumptions
    within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable
    cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates and discount
    rates. Our assessments to date have indicated that there has
    been no impairment of these assets.



    
    13



Table of Contents



 


    Should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should
    we incur lower than expected operating performance or cash
    flows, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new
    fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to
    the required annual assessment. These types of events and
    resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for
    goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the
    fair value estimate declines below the carrying value.


 


    Our amortization expense related to intangible assets with
    finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their
    useful lives change.


 



    Unanticipated
    changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax
    liabilities could impact our profitability.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
    various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and
    international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of
    expenses among different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates
    could be adversely affected by: changes in the mix of earnings
    by jurisdiction; changes in tax laws or tax rates; changes in
    the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; and
    material adjustments from tax audits.


 


    In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which
    are predominantly in the U.S., is dependent upon our ability to
    generate future taxable income in the U.S. In addition, the
    amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in
    various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing
    tax authority could affect our profitability.


 



    Currency
    fluctuations may affect our operating profits.


 


    Because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating
    income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates. Swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a
    much greater percentage of our operating expenses than Swiss
    franc-denominated sales represent of our net sales. In part,
    this is because most of our manufacturing costs in Switzerland
    relate to products that are sold outside Switzerland. Moreover,
    a substantial percentage of our research and development
    expenses and general and administrative expenses are incurred in
    Switzerland. Therefore, if the Swiss franc strengthens against
    all or most of our major trading currencies (e.g., the
    U.S. dollar, the euro, other major European currencies and
    the Japanese yen), our operating profit is reduced. We also have
    significantly more sales in European currencies (other than the
    Swiss franc) than we have expenses in those currencies.
    Therefore, when European currencies weaken against the
    U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc, it also decreases our
    operating profits. Accordingly, the Swiss franc exchange rate to
    the euro is an important cross-rate monitored by the Company. We
    estimate that a 1% strengthening of the Swiss franc against the
    euro would result in a decrease in our earnings before tax of
    approximately $1.0 million on an annual basis. In addition
    to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits,
    our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates,
    particularly between the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc.
    Based on our outstanding debt at December 31, 2006, we
    estimate that a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar against
    the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in
    an increase of approximately $22.9 million in the reported
    U.S. dollar value of the debt.


 



    We have
    substantial debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which
    could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may
    otherwise restrict our activities.


 


    We have substantial debt and we may incur substantial additional
    debt in the future. As of December 31, 2006, we had total
    indebtedness of approximately $204.4 million, net of cash
    of $151.3 million. We are also permitted by the terms of
    our debt instruments to incur substantial additional
    indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein.


 


    Our debt could have important consequences. For example, it
    could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations
    under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial
    portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which
    would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working
    capital, capital expenditures, product development and other
    corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general
    adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in
    raw material costs;



    
    14



Table of Contents




    limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit
    our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary;
    and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants,
    which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure
    is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default
    under our debt.


 



    The agreements
    governing our debt impose restrictions on our
    business.


 


    The indenture governing our senior notes and the agreements
    governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various
    restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our
    ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to
    take advantage of potential business opportunities as they
    arise. The restrictions these covenants place on us include
    limitations on our ability to: enter into sale and leaseback
    arrangements; incur liens; and consolidate, merge, sell or lease
    all or substantially all of our assets. Our credit facility also
    requires us to meet certain financial ratios.


 


    Our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by
    events beyond our control, including prevailing economic,
    financial and industry conditions, and are subject to the risks
    in this section. The breach of any of these covenants or
    restrictions could result in a default under the indenture
    governing the senior notes
    and/or under
    our credit facility. An event of default under our credit
    facility would permit our lenders to declare all amounts
    borrowed from them to be immediately due and payable.
    Acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable
    to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the
    principal amount of the senior notes.


 



    Our ability to
    generate cash depends on factors beyond our control.


 


    Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned
    capital expenditures and research and development efforts will
    depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to
    an extent, is subject to general economic, financial,
    competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors,
    including those described in this section, that are beyond our
    control.


 


    We cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash
    flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available
    to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to
    enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs.
    We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on
    or before maturity. We cannot ensure that we will be able to
    refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the
    senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all.


 



    CEO and CFO
    Certifications


 


    Our CEO submits an annual written affirmation to the New York
    Stock Exchange (NYSE) certifying the Company’s compliance
    with NYSE listing rules. The most recent annual affirmation was
    submitted in 2006.


 


    Our CEO and CFO also provide certifications pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in connection
    with our quarterly and annual financial statement filings with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission. The certifications
    relating to this annual report are attached as
    Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B