Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Factors Affecting
    Our Future Operating Results


 



    The majority of
    our business is derived from companies in developed countries.
    The current economic downturns or recessions in these countries
    can be expected to adversely affect our operating
    results.


 


    Although the percentage of our sales coming from emerging
    markets is growing, the majority of our business is still
    derived from companies in developed countries. Because our
    customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures in
    difficult economic times, economic downturns or recessions in
    developed countries would likely adversely affect our operating
    results. Given the current economic uncertainty, we are starting
    to see both decreases and delays in customer expenditures, and
    we expect these to continue and possibly worsen. Customers may
    also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not
    resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions
    improve. These conditions would reduce our revenues and
    profitability.


 



    We are subject to
    certain risks associated with our international operations and
    fluctuating conditions in emerging markets.


 


    We conduct business in many countries, including emerging
    markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, and these
    operations represent a significant portion of our sales and
    earnings. For example, our Chinese operations account for
    $228.9 million of sales to external customers and
    $59.0 million of segment profit. In addition to the
    currency risks discussed below, international operations pose
    other substantial risks and problems for us. For instance,
    various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or
    alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. In
    addition, we may encounter one or more of the following
    obstacles or risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    tariffs and trade barriers;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing local operations
    and/or
    mandatory salary increases for local employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local
    customers and distributors;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in protecting intellectual property;




 



     
        • 

    
    nationalization of private enterprises may result in the
    confiscation of assets as we hold significant assets around the
    world in the form of property, plant and equipment, inventory
    and accounts receivable, as well as $52.9 million of cash
    at December 31, 2008 in our Chinese subsidiaries;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions on investments
    and/or
    limitations regarding foreign ownership;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or
    increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other
    payments by subsidiaries; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions,
    including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no
    productivity growth.





 


    We must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the
    conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies.
    For example, converting earnings from our operations in China
    into other currencies and repatriating these funds require
    governmental approvals. If we cannot comply with these or other
    applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in
    utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of
    China.


 


    Economic conditions in emerging markets have from time to time
    deteriorated significantly, and some emerging markets are
    currently experiencing recessionary trends, severe currency
    devaluations and inflationary prices. Moreover, economic
    problems in individual markets can spread to other economies,
    adding to the adverse conditions we may face in emerging
    markets. Even where economies are currently growing, such as
    China, we are already seeing significant slowdowns compared with
    historical growth rates, and believe economic conditions in
    these markets will decline further. We remain committed to
    emerging markets,



    
    12



Table of Contents




    particularly those in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe.
    However, we expect the fluctuating economic conditions will
    affect our results of operations in these markets for the
    foreseeable future.


 



    We operate in
    highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve
    operating margins, gain market share and maintain a
    technological advantage.


 


    Our markets are highly competitive. Many of the markets in which
    we compete are fragmented both geographically and by
    application, particularly the industrial and food retailing
    markets. As a result, we face numerous regional or specialized
    competitors, many of which are well established in their
    markets. In addition, some of our competitors are divisions of
    larger companies with potentially greater financial and other
    resources than our Company. Some of our competitors are
    domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower
    cost structure than ours. We are confronted with new competitors
    in emerging markets who, although relatively small in size
    today, could become larger companies in their home markets.
    Given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging
    markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed
    markets, emerging market competitors could become more
    significant global competitors. Taken together, the competitive
    forces present in our markets can impair our operating margins
    in certain product lines and geographic markets. We expect our
    competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of
    their products and to introduce new products with competitive
    prices. Although we believe that we have certain technological
    and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to
    realize and maintain these advantages.


 



    Our product
    development efforts may not produce commercially viable products
    in a timely manner.


 


    We must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely
    manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete
    over time, which would harm our operating results. To remain
    competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in
    research and development, sales and marketing and customer
    service and support. We cannot be sure that we will have
    sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. In
    developing new products, we may be required to make substantial
    investments before we can determine their commercial viability.
    As a result, we may not be successful in developing new products
    and we may never realize the benefits of our research and
    development activities.


 



    Our ability to
    deliver products and services may be disrupted.


 


    An interruption in our business due to events such as natural
    disasters, pandemics or other health crises, fires, explosions
    or issues with the supply chain may cause us to temporarily be
    unable to deliver products or services to our customers. It may
    be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these
    risks are covered by insurance policies. More importantly,
    customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us
    even if we resolve the interruption.


 



    A widespread
    outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively
    affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to
    meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in
    reduced demand from our customers.


 


    A number of countries in the Asia Pacific region have
    experienced outbreaks of SARS
    and/or avian
    influenza (bird flu) in recent years. As a result of such an
    outbreak, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become
    ill or quarantined. Outbreaks of infectious diseases such as
    these, particularly in North America, Europe, China or other
    locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect
    general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations,
    business or prospects. If our operations are curtailed because
    of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of
    supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be
    more expensive. Alternate sources may not be available or may
    result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which
    would affect our results of operations. In addition, a
    curtailment of our product design operations could result in
    delays in the development of new products. Further, if our
    customers’ businesses are affected by health issues, they
    might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely
    affect our results of operations.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    We are vulnerable
    to system failures, which could harm our business.


 


    We rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions,
    to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services,
    support our customers, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make
    payments. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption
    from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures,
    terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service
    attacks and other events. When we upgrade or change systems, we
    may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced
    functionality. A significant number of our systems are not
    redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient
    for every eventuality. Despite any precautions we may take, such
    problems could result in, among other consequences,
    interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation
    and financial condition. We do not carry business interruption
    insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result
    from interruptions in our services as a result of system
    failures.


 


    We also recently initiated our “Blue Ocean” program, a
    program to standardize our global business processes and
    information technology systems that includes the implementation
    of a Company-wide enterprise resource planning system. The
    implementation of this program will proceed on a staggered basis
    over a several-year period with the initial go-live rollouts
    expected to occur during 2010. If the implementation of any unit
    is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and
    customer-facing activities which could harm our reputation and
    financial condition, lose data, experience reduced functionality
    or have delays in reporting financial information. It may take
    us longer to implement the Blue Ocean program than we have
    planned for, and the project may cost us more than we have
    estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability
    to generate cost savings or other efficiencies.


 



    A prolonged
    downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical,
    food, food retailing and chemical industries could adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    Our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food
    and beverage and chemical industries. Consolidation in the
    pharmaceutical and chemical industries hurt our sales in prior
    years. A prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation
    in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating
    results, and some industries are already experiencing
    significant economic declines such as the chemical industry. In
    addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in
    these industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot
    control, including the resources available for purchasing
    equipment, the spending priorities among various types of
    equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures. Any
    decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would
    cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability.


 



    We may face risks
    associated with future acquisitions.


 


    We may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines,
    technologies or businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks,
    including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired
    operations, technologies and products; diversion of
    management’s attention from other business concerns; and
    potential departures of key employees of the acquired company.
    If we successfully identify acquisitions in the future,
    completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our
    stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our
    debt and contingent liabilities and additional amortization
    expenses related to intangible assets. Any of these
    acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse affect
    on our profitability.


 


    Larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments
    as businesses they will consider entering, which could change
    the competitive dynamics of these markets. In addition, we may
    not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate
    potential acquisitions in the future. However, even if we can do
    so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a
    positive impact on our business or operating results.


 



    If we cannot
    protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or
    misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating
    results could be harmed.


 


    Our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents
    on our technology, maintain our trademarks and protect our trade
    secrets. Our patents may not provide complete protection, and
    competitors



    
    14



Table of Contents




    may develop similar products that are not covered by our
    patents. Our patents may also be challenged by third parties and
    invalidated or narrowed. Competitors sometimes seek to take
    advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create
    customer confusion or weaken our brand. Although we take
    measures to protect confidential information, improper use or
    disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur.


 


    We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property
    rights of others. The cost of any litigation could affect our
    profitability regardless of the outcome, and management
    attention could be diverted. If we are unsuccessful in such
    litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing
    activity
    and/or
    obtain a license. If we fail to obtain a required license, we
    may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result
    in a decline in our revenues.


 



    Departures of key
    employees could impair our operations.


 


    We generally have employment contracts with each of our key
    employees. Our executive officers own shares of our common stock
    and/or have
    options to purchase additional shares. Nevertheless, such
    individuals could leave the Company. If any key employees
    stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed.
    Important R&D personnel may leave and join competitors,
    which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development
    projects. We have no key man life insurance policies with
    respect to any of our senior executives.


 



    We may be
    adversely affected by environmental laws and
    regulations.


 


    We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations,
    including those relating to air emissions, wastewater
    discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous
    wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the
    use and disposal of hazardous substances.


 


    We incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and
    regulations. We are currently involved in, or have potential
    liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination
    in various facilities. In addition, some of our facilities are
    or have been in operation for many decades and may have used
    substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are
    hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. These
    sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste
    may in the future be identified as contaminated and require
    remediation. Accordingly, it is possible that we could become
    subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future
    that may harm our results of operations or financial condition.


 



    We may be
    adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of
    governmental agencies or by the adoption of new
    regulations.


 


    Our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies.
    These regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating
    to our products, from design and development, to product safety,
    labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. If
    we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations
    are adopted that substantially change existing practice or
    impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease
    their manufacture and distribution. In addition, we could be
    subject to fines or criminal prosecution.


 



    We may experience
    impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, our consolidated balance sheet
    included goodwill of $424.4 million and other intangible
    assets of $96.3 million.


 


    Our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other
    intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period
    amortization expense and possible impairment expense that we
    might incur. The determination of the value of such intangible
    assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect our consolidated financial statements.


 


    In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), our
    goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not
    amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the
    fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    The evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair
    value based on expected future cash flows and profitability
    projections. In preparing the valuation models we consider a
    number of factors, including operating results, business plans,
    economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and
    market place data. There are inherent uncertainties related to
    these factors and our judgment in applying them to the
    impairment analyses. The significant estimates and assumptions
    within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable
    cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates and discount
    rates. Our assessments to date have indicated that there has
    been no impairment of these assets.


 


    Should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should
    we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash
    flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may
    experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value
    assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the
    required annual assessment. These types of events and resulting
    analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and
    other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value
    estimate declines below the carrying value.


 


    Our amortization expense related to intangible assets with
    finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their
    useful lives change.


 



    Unanticipated
    changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax
    liabilities could impact our profitability.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
    various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and
    international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of
    expenses among different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates
    could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by
    jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the
    valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and material
    adjustments from tax audits.


 


    In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which
    are predominantly in the U.S., is dependent upon our ability to
    generate future taxable income in the U.S. In addition, the
    amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in
    various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing
    tax authority could affect our profitability.


 



    Currency
    fluctuations affect our operating profits.


 


    Because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating
    income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates. Swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a
    much greater percentage of our total operating expenses than
    Swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our total net sales.
    In part, this is because most of our manufacturing costs in
    Switzerland relate to products that are sold outside
    Switzerland. Moreover, a substantial percentage of our research
    and development expenses and general and administrative expenses
    are incurred in Switzerland. Therefore, if the Swiss franc
    strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies
    (e.g., the U.S. dollar, the euro, other major
    European currencies, the Chinese yuan and the Japanese yen), our
    operating profit is reduced. We also have significantly more
    sales in European currencies (other than the Swiss franc) than
    we have expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European
    currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar and the Swiss
    franc, it also decreases our operating profits. Accordingly, the
    Swiss franc exchange rate to the euro is an important cross-rate
    monitored by the Company. In recent months, we have seen
    substantially higher volatility in exchange rates generally than
    in the past, and the Swiss franc has strengthened significantly
    against the euro. We estimate that a 1% strengthening of the
    Swiss franc against the euro would result in a decrease in our
    earnings before tax of $1.0 million to $1.4 million on
    an annual basis. In addition to the Swiss franc and major
    European currencies, we also conduct business in many
    geographies throughout the world, including Asia Pacific,
    Eastern Europe, Latin America and Canada. Fluctuations in these
    currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar can also
    affect our operating results. In addition to the effects of
    exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels
    can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly
    between the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc. Based on our
    outstanding debt at December 31, 2008, we estimate that a
    10% weakening of the U.S. dollar against the currencies in
    which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of
    approximately $5.0 million in the reported U.S. dollar
    value of the debt.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    We have
    substantial debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which
    could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may
    otherwise restrict our activities.


 


    We have substantial debt and we may incur substantial additional
    debt in the future. As of December 31, 2008, we had total
    indebtedness of approximately $376.0 million, net of cash
    of $78.1 million. We are also permitted by the terms of our
    debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness,
    subject to the restrictions therein.


 


    Our debt could have important consequences. For example, it
    could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations
    under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial
    portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which
    would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working
    capital, capital expenditures, product development and other
    corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general
    adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in
    raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business
    opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds,
    which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other
    restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these
    covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result
    in an event of default under our debt.


 


    In the current difficult environment, banks can be expected to
    strictly enforce the terms of our credit agreement. Although we
    believe we are currently in compliance with all credit agreement
    requirements, if we fail to comply in the future with a
    requirement, our access to the facility and ability to borrow
    further may be limited. In such circumstances, we may not be
    able to refinance our existing debt or only be able to do so at
    significantly higher costs.


 



    The agreements
    governing our debt impose restrictions on our
    business.


 


    The indenture governing our senior notes and the agreements
    governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various
    restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our
    ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to
    take advantage of potential business opportunities as they
    arise. The restrictions these covenants place on us include
    limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate,
    merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. Our
    credit facility also requires us to meet certain financial
    ratios.


 


    Our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by
    events beyond our control, including prevailing economic,
    financial and industry conditions, and are subject to the risks
    in this section. The breach of any of these covenants or
    restrictions could result in a default under the indenture
    governing the senior notes
    and/or under
    our credit facility. An event of default under our credit
    facility would permit our lenders to declare all amounts
    borrowed from them to be immediately due and payable.
    Acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable
    to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the
    principal amount of the senior notes.


 



    We make from time
    to time forward-looking statements, and actual events or results
    may differ materially from these statements because assumptions
    we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our
    industries or other
    factors.
    


 


    We from time to time provide forward-looking statements both in
    our filings with the SEC and orally in connection with our
    quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated
    earnings per share. These statements are only predictions.
    Actual events or results may differ materially from these
    statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due
    to market conditions in our industries or other factors. We
    refer you to the factors discussed under the captions
    “Factors affecting our future operating results” in
    the “Business” section and the “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” section of this annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    which describe risks and factors that could cause results to
    differ materially from those projected in those forward-looking
    statements. We operate in a continually changing business
    environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.
    Management cannot predict these new risk factors, nor can it
    assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our
    businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of
    factors, may cause actual results to differ



    
    17



Table of Contents




    materially from those projected in any forward-looking
    statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not
    be relied upon as a prediction of actual results.


 


    In providing guidance on our future earnings, our management
    evaluates our budgets, our strategic plan and certain factors
    relating to our business. This evaluation requires management to
    make several key assumptions relating to both external and
    internal factors. Some of the key external assumptions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the outlook for our end markets and the global economy;




 



     
        • 

    
    impact of external factors on our competition;




 



     
        • 

    
    economies in emerging markets will slow from the growth we had
    in 2008;




 



     
        • 

    
    financial position of our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the estimated costs of purchasing materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments in personnel costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    rates for currency exchange, particularly between the Swiss
    franc and the euro.





 


    Some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time.
    For example, although no one customer accounts for more than 1%
    of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced
    significant deteriorations in their financial positions
    concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of
    operations.


 


    Some of our key internal assumptions include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to implement our business strategy;




 



     
        • 

    
    effectiveness of our marketing programs such as our Spinnaker
    initiatives;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and
    services;




 



     
        • 

    
    continued growth in our sales in emerging markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the effectiveness of our cost saving initiatives, including our
    restructuring activities.





 


    These internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over
    time. For example, with respect to our ability to realize our
    planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in
    core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets,
    price tends to be a more significant factor in customers’
    decisions to purchase our products. Furthermore, we can have no
    assurance that our cost reduction programs will be effective or
    that we will be able to execute them in the estimated time
    frames. Additionally, although we have included certain
    restructuring costs in our forecast, it may become necessary to
    take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional
    restructuring costs.


 


    We believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent
    for planning purposes. However, should any of these assumptions
    prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected
    operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results
    different than our projections.


 



    Our ability to
    generate cash depends on factors beyond our control.


 


    Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned
    capital expenditures and research and development efforts will
    depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to
    an extent, is subject to general economic, financial,
    competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors,
    including those described in this section, that are beyond our
    control.


 


    We cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash
    flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available
    to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to
    enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs.
    We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on
    or before maturity. We cannot ensure that we will be able to
    refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the
    senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all.



    
    18



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1B