. Risk Factors.") 7Patents and LicensesIn recent years, we have been recognized as a leader in per capita and quality of patents issued.  As of September 3, 2015, we owned approximately 16,800 U.S. patents and 4,200 foreign patents.  In addition, we have thousands of U.S. and foreign patent applications pending.  Our patents have various terms expiring through 2034.We have a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements and have from time to time licensed or sold our intellectual property to third parties.  Some of these license agreements require us to make one-time or periodic payments while others have resulted in us receiving payments.  We may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future and we may enter into additional sales or licenses of intellectual property and partnering arrangements.  We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms.EmployeesAs of September 3, 2015, we had approximately 31,800 employees.Environmental ComplianceGovernment regulations impose various environmental controls on raw materials and discharges, emissions, and solid wastes from our manufacturing processes.  In 2015, our wafer fabrication facilities continued to conform to the requirements of ISO 14001 certification.  To continue certification, we must meet annual requirements in environmental policy, compliance, planning, management, structure and responsibility, training, communication, document control, operational control, emergency preparedness and response, record keeping, and management review.  While we have not experienced any material adverse effects to our operations from environmental regulations, changes in the regulations could necessitate additional capital expenditures, modification of our operations, or other compliance actions.Directors and Executive Officers of the RegistrantOur executive officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors and our directors are elected annually by our shareholders.  Any directors appointed by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board serve until the next election by the shareholders.  All officers and directors serve until their successors are duly chosen or elected and qualified, except in the case of earlier death, resignation, or removal.As of September 3, 2015, the following executive officers and directors were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.Name Age PositionMark W. Adams 51 PresidentApril S. Arnzen 44 Vice President, Human ResourcesScott J. DeBoer 49 Vice President, Research & DevelopmentD. Mark Durcan 54 Director and Chief Executive OfficerErnest E. Maddock 57 Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, FinanceJoel L. Poppen 51 Vice President, Legal Affairs, General Counsel, and Corporate SecretaryBrian M. Shirley 46 Vice President, Memory Technology and SolutionsSteven L. Thorsen, Jr. 50 Vice President, Worldwide SalesRobert L. Bailey 58 DirectorRichard M. Beyer 66 DirectorPatrick J. Byrne 54 DirectorD. Warren A. East 53 DirectorMercedes Johnson 61 DirectorLawrence N. Mondry 55 DirectorRobert E. Switz 68 Chairman 8Mark W. Adams joined us in June 2006 and served as our Vice President of Digital Media and Vice President of Worldwide Sales before being appointed our President in February 2012.  Mr. Adams also served as our interim Chief Financial Officer from March 2015 through May 2015.  From January 2006, until he joined us, Mr. Adams was the Chief Operating Officer of Lexar Media, Inc.  Mr. Adams served as the Vice President of Sales and Marketing for Creative Labs, Inc. from December 2002 to January 2006.  From March 2000 to September 2002, Mr. Adams was the Chief Executive Officer of Coresma, Inc.  Mr. Adams currently serves as a member of the Board of Directors for Cadence Design Systems, Inc.  Mr. Adams holds a BA in Economics from Boston College and an MBA from Harvard Business School.April S. Arnzen joined us in December 1996 and has served in various leadership positions since that time.  Ms. Arnzen was appointed our Vice President, Human Resources in January 2015.  Ms. Arnzen holds a BS in Human Resource Management and Marketing from the University of Idaho.Scott J. DeBoer joined us in February 1995 and has served in various leadership positions since that time.  Dr. DeBoer became an officer in May 2007 and, in January 2013, he was appointed our Vice President, Research & Development.  Dr. DeBoer holds a PhD in Electrical Engineering and an MS in Physics from Iowa State University.  He completed his undergraduate degree at Hastings College.D. Mark Durcan joined us in June 1984 and has served in various positions since that time.  Mr. Durcan was appointed our Chief Operating Officer in February 2006, President in June 2007, and Director and Chief Executive Officer in February 2012.  Mr. Durcan has been an officer since 1996.  Mr. Durcan is a member of the Board of Directors of AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.  Mr. Durcan holds a BS and MChE in Chemical Engineering from Rice University. Ernest E. Maddock joined us in June 2015 as our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance.  From April 2013 until he joined us, Mr. Maddock served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Riverbed Technology.  From October 2008 to April 2013, Mr. Maddock served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Lam Research Corporation after serving as Lam's Vice President of Global Operations from October 2003 to September 2008.  Mr. Maddock currently serves as a member of the Board of Directors for Intersil Corporation.  Mr. Maddock holds a BS in Industrial Management from the Georgia Institute of Technology and an MBA from Georgia State University.Joel L. Poppen joined us in October 1995 and has held various leadership positions since that time.  He was appointed to his current position in December 2013.  Mr. Poppen holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Illinois and a JD from the Duke University School of Law.Brian M. Shirley joined us in August 1992 and has served in various leadership positions since that time.  Mr. Shirley became Vice President of Memory in February 2006, Vice President of DRAM Solutions in June 2010 and has served as Vice President, Memory Technology and Solutions since April 2014.  Mr. Shirley holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.Steven L. Thorsen, Jr. joined us in September 1988 and has served in various leadership positions since that time including Vice President and Chief Procurement Officer.  Mr. Thorsen became Vice President, Worldwide Sales in April 2012.  Mr. Thorsen holds a BA in Business Administration from Washington State University.Robert L. Bailey was the Chairman of the Board of Directors of PMC-Sierra, Inc. from 2005 until May 2011 and also served as PMC's Chairman from February 2000 until February 2003.  Mr. Bailey served as a director of PMC from October 1996 to May 2011.  He also served as the Chief Executive Officer of PMC from July 1997 until May 2008.  PMC is a leading provider of broadband communication and semiconductor storage solutions for the next-generation Internet.  Mr. Bailey holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Bridgeport and an MBA from the University of Dallas.  Mr. Bailey has served on our Board of Directors since 2007.Richard M. Beyer was Chairman and CEO of Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. from 2008 through June 2012 and served as a director with Freescale until April 2013.  Prior to Freescale, Mr. Beyer was President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Intersil Corporation from 2002 to 2008.  He has also previously served in executive management roles at FVC.com, VLSI Technology, and National Semiconductor Corporation.  He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Dialog Semiconductor and Analog Devices, Inc.  Mr. Beyer served three years as an officer in the United States Marine Corps.  He holds a BA and an MA in Russian from Georgetown University and an MBA in Marketing and International Business from Columbia University Graduate School of Business.  Mr. Beyer has served on our Board of Directors since 2013. 9Patrick J. Byrne has served as the President of Tektronix, a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation, since July 2014.  Mr. Byrne was Vice President of Strategy and Business Development and Chief Technical Officer of Danaher from November 2012 to July 2014.  Danaher designs, manufactures, and markets innovative products and services to professional, medical, industrial, and commercial customers.  Prior to that, Mr. Byrne served as Director, President and Chief Executive Officer of Intermec, Inc. from 2007 to May 2012.  Mr. Byrne was with Agilent Technologies, Inc. from 1999 to 2007 and served in various management positions.  Mr. Byrne holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley, and an MS in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.  Mr. Byrne has served on our Board of Directors since 2011.D. Warren A. East has served as CEO of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc since July 2015.  Mr. East was the CEO of ARM Holdings PLC from October 2001 to July 2013.  He originally joined ARM in 1994, and served in various roles prior to being appointed CEO.  He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Rolls-Royce plc.  Mr. East is a chartered engineer, Distinguished Fellow of the British Computer Society, Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology, Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, and a Companion of the Chartered Management Institute.  Mr. East holds a BA BSc(Eng) and an MBA MEng in Engineering Science from Oxford University and an MBA and honorary doctorate from Cranfield University.  Mr. East has served on our Board of Directors since 2013.Mercedes Johnson was the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Avago Technologies Limited, a supplier of analog interface components for communications, industrial and consumer applications, from December 2005 to August 2008.  She also served as the Senior Vice President, Finance, of Lam Research Corporation from June 2004 to January 2005 and as Lam's Chief Financial Officer from May 1997 to May 2004.  Ms. Johnson holds a degree in Accounting from the University of Buenos Aires and currently serves on the Board of Directors for Intersil Corporation, Juniper Networks, Inc., and Teradyne, Inc.  Ms. Johnson is the Chairman of the Board's Audit Committee and has served on our Board of Directors since 2005.Lawrence N. Mondry was the Chief Executive Officer of Apollo Brands, a consumer products portfolio company, from February 2014 to February 2015.  Mr. Mondry was the Chief Executive Officer of Flexi Compras Corporation, a rent-to-own retailer, from June 2013 to February 2014.  Mr. Mondry was the President and Chief Executive Officer of CSK Auto Corporation, a specialty retailer of automotive aftermarket parts, from August 2007 to July 2008.  Prior to his appointment at CSK, Mr. Mondry served as the Chief Executive Officer of CompUSA Inc. from November 2003 to May 2006.  Mr. Mondry joined CompUSA in 1990.  Mr. Mondry holds a BA degree from Boston University.  Mr. Mondry is the Chairman of the Board's Compensation Committee and Governance Committee and has served on our Board of Directors since 2005.Robert E. Switz was the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ADC Telecommunications, Inc., a supplier of network infrastructure products and services from August 2003 until December 2010, when Tyco Electronics Ltd. acquired ADC.  Mr. Switz joined ADC in 1994 and throughout his career there held numerous leadership positions.  Mr. Switz holds an MBA from the University of Bridgeport and a BS in Business Administration from Quinnipiac University.  Mr. Switz also serves on the Board of Directors for Broadcom Corporation, GT Advanced Technologies, and Gigamon Inc.  Mr. Switz was appointed Chairman of the Board in 2012 and has served on our Board of Directors since 2006.There are no family relationships between any of our directors or executive officers.Additional InformationMicron, Lexar, Crucial, SpecTek, Elpida, JumpDrive, any associated logos, and all other Micron trademarks are the property of Micron.  3D XPoint is a trademark of Intel in the U.S. and/or other countries.  Other product names or trademarks that are not owned by Micron are for identification purposes only and may be the registered or unregistered trademarks of their respective owners. 10ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORSIn addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us.We have experienced dramatic declines in average selling prices for our semiconductor memory products which have adversely affected our business.If average selling prices for our memory products decrease faster than we can decrease per gigabit costs, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  We have experienced significant decreases in our average selling prices per gigabit in previous years as noted in the table below and may continue to experience such decreases in the future.  In some prior periods, average selling prices for our memory products have been below our manufacturing costs and we may experience such circumstances in the future.  DRAM Trade NAND Flash*       (percentage change in average selling prices)2015 from 2014 (11)% (17)%2014 from 2013 6 % (23)%2013 from 2012 (11)% (18)%2012 from 2011 (45)% (55)%2011 from 2010 (39)% (12)%* Trade NAND Flash excludes sales to Intel from IMFT.    We may be unable to maintain or improve gross margins.Our gross margins are dependent upon continuing decreases in per gigabit manufacturing costs achieved through improvements in our manufacturing processes and product designs, including, but not limited to, process line-width, architecture, number of mask layers, number of fabrication steps, and yield.  In future periods, we may be unable to reduce our per gigabit manufacturing costs at sufficient levels to maintain or improve gross margins.  Factors that may limit our ability to reduce costs include, but are not limited to, strategic product diversification decisions affecting product mix, the increasing complexity of manufacturing processes, difficulty in transitioning to smaller line-width process technologies, technological barriers, and changes in process technologies or products that may require relatively larger die sizes.  Per gigabit manufacturing costs may also be affected by the relatively smaller production quantities and shorter product lifecycles of certain specialty memory products.The semiconductor memory industry is highly competitive.We face intense competition in the semiconductor memory market from a number of companies, including Intel; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.; SanDisk Corporation; SK Hynix Inc.; and Toshiba Corporation.  Some of our competitors are large corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to invest in technology, capitalize on growth opportunities, and withstand downturns in the semiconductor markets in which we compete.  Consolidation of industry competitors could put us at a competitive disadvantage.  In addition, some governments, such as China, have provided, and may continue to provide, significant financial assistance to some of our competitors or to new entrants.  Our competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, reduce die size, and minimize mask levels in their product designs.  Transitions to smaller line-width process technologies and product and process improvements have resulted in significant increases in the worldwide supply of semiconductor memory.  Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory also result from semiconductor memory fab capacity expansions, either by way of new facilities, increased capacity utilization, or reallocation of other semiconductor production to semiconductor memory production.  Our competitors may increase capital expenditures resulting in future increases in worldwide supply.  In recent periods, we and some of our competitors have begun construction on or announced plans to build new fabrication facilities.  Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory, if not accompanied by commensurate increases in demand, would lead to further declines in average selling prices for our products and would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 11Debt obligations could adversely affect our financial condition.In recent periods, our debt levels have increased due to the capital intensive nature of our business, business acquisitions, and restructuring of our capital structure.  As of September 3, 2015, we had debt with a carrying value of $7.34 billion.  In addition, the conversion value in excess of principal amount for our convertible notes outstanding as of September 3, 2015 was $553 million.  In 2015, we paid $1.43 billion to repurchase and settle conversion obligations for convertible notes with a principal amount of $489 million.  In 2014, we paid $2.30 billion to repurchase and settle conversion obligations for convertible notes with a principal amount of $1.09 billion.  As of September 3, 2015, we had (1) revolving credit facilities available that provide for up to $842 million of additional financing and (2) a term loan agreement available to obtain financing collateralized by certain property, plant, and equipment in the amount of 6.90 billion New Taiwan dollars or an equivalent amount in U.S. dollars (approximately $213 million as of September 3, 2015), of which we drew $40 million in 2015.  The availability of these revolving and other facilities is subject to certain conditions, including outstanding balances of trade receivables; inventories; collateralization of certain property, plant, and equipment; and other conditions.  Events and circumstances may occur which would cause us to not be able to satisfy these applicable drawdown conditions and utilize these facilities.  We have in the past and expect in the future to continue to incur additional debt to finance our capital investments, business acquisitions, and restructuring of our capital structure.Our debt obligations could adversely impact us.  For example, these obligations could:•require us to use a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on debt, which will reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, R&D expenditures, and other business activities;•continue to dilute our earnings per share as a result of the conversion provisions in our convertible notes;•require us to continue to pay cash amounts substantially in excess of the principal amounts upon settlement of our convertible notes to minimize dilution of our earnings per share; •limit our future ability to raise funds for capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions or business opportunities, R&D, and other general corporate requirements;•adversely impact our credit rating, which could increase future borrowing costs; and•increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and semiconductor memory industry conditions.Our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flows in the future.  This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control.  There can be no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that additional capital will be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our debt payment obligations and to fund other liquidity needs.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital.  If we were unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may be unable to meet our debt payment obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing necessary to fund our operations, make scheduled debt payments, and make adequate capital investments.Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on the volume of semiconductor memory sold, average selling prices, and manufacturing costs.  To develop new product and process technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies, and maintain product quality, we must make significant capital investments in manufacturing technology, capital equipment, facilities, R&D, and product and process technology.  We estimate that cash expenditures in 2016 for property, plant, and equipment will be approximately $5.3 billion to $5.8 billion.  Investments in capital expenditures for 2015 were $4.12 billion.  In addition, as a result of the MMJ acquisition and our capacity expansion in Singapore, we expect our future capital spending will be higher than our historical levels.  As of September 3, 2015, we had cash and marketable investments of $5.63 billion, which included $748 million held by the MMJ Group and $134 million held by IMFT, none of which is generally available to finance our other operations. 12As a result of the Japan Proceedings, for so long as such proceedings are continuing, the MMJ Companies and their subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions on dividends, loans, and advances.  The plans of reorganization of the MMJ Companies prohibit the MMJ Companies from paying dividends, including any cash dividends, to us and require that excess earnings be used in their businesses or to fund the MMJ Companies' installment payments.  These prohibitions would also effectively prevent the subsidiaries of the MMJ Companies from paying cash dividends to us in respect of the shares of such subsidiaries owned by the MMJ Companies, as any such dividends would have to be first paid to the MMJ Companies which are prohibited from repaying those amounts to us as dividends under the plans of reorganization.  In addition, pursuant to an order of the Japan Court, the MMJ Companies cannot make loans or advances, other than certain ordinary course advances, to us without the consent of the Japan Court.  Moreover, loans or advances by subsidiaries of the MMJ Companies may be considered outside of the ordinary course of business and subject to approval of the legal trustees and Japan Court.  As a result, the assets of the MMJ Companies and their subsidiaries, while available to satisfy the MMJ Companies' installment payments and the other obligations, capital expenditures, and other operating needs of the MMJ Companies and their subsidiaries, are not available for use by us in our other operations.  Furthermore, certain uses of the assets of the MMJ Group, including investments in certain capital expenditures and in MMT, may require consent of MMJ's trustees and/or the Japan Court.In the past we have utilized external sources of financing when needed.  As a result of our debt levels, expected debt amortization and general economic conditions, it may be difficult for us to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows, use cash held by MMJ to fund its capital expenditures, access capital markets or find other sources of financing to fund our operations, make debt payments, and make adequate capital investments to remain competitive in terms of technology development and cost efficiency.  Our inability to do the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial conditions.The acquisition of our ownership interest in Inotera from Qimonda has been challenged by the administrator of the insolvency proceedings for Qimonda.On January 20, 2011, Dr. Michael Jaffé, administrator for Qimonda insolvency proceedings, filed suit against Micron and Micron Semiconductor B.V., our Netherlands subsidiary ("Micron B.V."), in the District Court of Munich, Civil Chamber.  The complaint seeks to void under Section 133 of the German Insolvency Act a share purchase agreement between Micron B.V. and Qimonda signed in fall 2008 pursuant to which Micron B.V. purchased substantially all of Qimonda's shares of Inotera Memories, Inc. (the "Inotera Shares"), representing approximately 55% of our total shares in Inotera as of September 3, 2015, and seeks an order requiring us to re-transfer those shares to the Qimonda estate.  The complaint also seeks, among other things, to recover damages for the alleged value of the joint venture relationship with Inotera and to terminate under Sections 103 or 133 of the German Insolvency Code a patent cross-license between us and Qimonda entered into at the same time as the share purchase agreement.Following a series of hearings with pleadings, arguments, and witnesses on behalf of the Qimonda estate, on March 13, 2014, the Court issued judgments:  (1) ordering Micron B.V. to pay approximately $1 million in respect of certain Inotera shares sold in connection with the original share purchase; (2) ordering Micron B.V. to disclose certain information with respect to any Inotera Shares sold by it to third parties; (3) ordering Micron B.V. to disclose the benefits derived by it from ownership of the Inotera Shares, including in particular, any profits distributed on such shares and all other benefits; (4) denying Qimonda’s claims against Micron for any damages relating to the joint venture relationship with Inotera; and (5) determining that Qimonda's obligations under the patent cross-license agreement are canceled.  In addition, the Court issued interlocutory judgments ordering, among other things:  (1) that Micron B.V. transfer to the Qimonda estate the Inotera Shares still owned by it and pay to the Qimonda estate compensation in an amount to be specified for any Inotera Shares sold to third parties; and (2) that Micron B.V. pay the Qimonda estate as compensation an amount to be specified for benefits derived by it from ownership of the Inotera Shares.  The interlocutory judgments have no immediate, enforceable effect on us, and, accordingly, we expect to be able to continue to operate with full control of the Inotera Shares subject to further developments in the case.  We have filed a notice of appeal, and the parties have submitted briefs to the appeals court.  The next hearing on the matter has not yet been scheduled.We are unable to predict the outcome of the matter and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss.  The final resolution of this lawsuit could result in the loss of the Inotera shares or monetary damages, unspecified damages based on the benefits derived by Micron B.V. from the ownership of the Inotera Shares, and/or the termination of the patent cross-license, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, or financial condition.  As of September 3, 2015, the Inotera Shares had a carrying value for purposes of our financial reporting of $683 million and a market value of $846 million. 13Our future success depends on our ability to develop and produce competitive new memory technologies.Our key semiconductor memory technologies of DRAM, NAND Flash, and NOR Flash face technological barriers to continue to meet long-term customer needs.  These barriers include potential limitations on the ability to shrink products in order to reduce costs, meet higher density requirements, and improve power consumption and reliability.  To meet these requirements, we expect that new memory technologies will be developed by the semiconductor memory industry.  Our competitors are working to develop new memory technologies that may offer performance and/or cost advantages to our existing memory technologies and render existing technologies obsolete.  Accordingly, our future success may depend on our ability to develop and produce viable and competitive new memory technologies.  There can be no assurance of the following:•that we will be successful in developing competitive new semiconductor memory technologies;•that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture new products;•that we will be able to successfully market these technologies; and•that margins generated from sales of these products will allow us to recover costs of development efforts.In the fourth quarter of 2015, we announced the development of new 3D XPoint technology, which is an entirely new class of non-volatile memory.  There is no assurance that our efforts to develop and market this new product technology will be successful.  If our efforts to develop new semiconductor memory technologies are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations, or financial condition may be materially adversely affected.New product development may be unsuccessful.We are developing new products, including system-level memory products, that complement our traditional memory products or leverage their underlying design or process technology.  We have made significant investments in product and process technologies and anticipate expending significant resources for new semiconductor product development over the next several years.  The process to develop DRAM, NAND Flash, NOR Flash, and certain specialty memory products, requires us to demonstrate advanced functionality and performance, many times well in advance of a planned ramp of production, in order to secure design wins with our customers.  There can be no assurance of the following:•that our product development efforts will be successful;•that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture new products;•that we will be able to successfully market these products; or•that margins generated from sales of these products will allow us to recover costs of development efforts.If our efforts to develop new products are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations, or financial condition may be materially adversely affected.Products that fail to meet specifications, are defective, or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us.Products that do not meet specifications or that contain, or are perceived by our customers to contain, defects or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.  From time to time we experience problems with nonconforming, defective or incompatible products after we have shipped such products.  In recent periods we have further diversified and expanded our product offerings which could potentially increase the chance that one or more of our products could fail to meet specifications in a particular application.  As a result of these problems we could be adversely affected in several ways, including the following:•we may be required to compensate customers for costs incurred or damages caused by defective or incompatible product or replace products;•we could incur a decrease in revenue or adjustment to pricing commensurate with the reimbursement of such costs or alleged damages; and•we may encounter adverse publicity, which could cause a decrease in sales of our products. 14A determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others or entering into a license agreement covering such intellectual property could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.As is typical in the semiconductor and other high technology industries, from time to time others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our products or manufacturing processes infringe their intellectual property rights.  We are unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against us.  A determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, or entering a license agreement covering such intellectual property, could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes.  Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.  (See "Part II. Financial Information – Item 8. Financial Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Contingencies.")We have a number of intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require us to make one time or periodic payments.  We may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future.  We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms.Our joint ventures and strategic relationships involve numerous risks.We have entered into strategic relationships to manufacture products and develop new manufacturing process technologies and products.  These relationships include our IMFT joint venture with Intel, our Inotera joint venture with Nanya, and our MP Mask joint venture with Photronics.  These joint ventures and strategic relationships are subject to various risks that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations.  These risks include the following:•our interests could diverge from our partners or we may not be able to agree with partners on ongoing manufacturing and operational activities, or on the amount, timing, or nature of further investments in our joint venture;•our joint venture partners' products may compete with our products;•we may experience difficulties in transferring technology to joint ventures;•we may experience difficulties and delays in ramping production at joint ventures;•our control over the operations of our joint ventures is limited;•we may recognize losses from our equity method investments;•due to financial constraints, our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their commitments to us or our joint ventures and may pose credit risks for our transactions with them;•due to differing business models or long-term business goals, our partners may decide not to join us in funding capital investment in our joint ventures, which may result in higher levels of cash expenditures by us;•cash flows may be inadequate to fund increased capital requirements;•we may experience difficulties or delays in collecting amounts due to us from our joint ventures and partners;•the terms of our partnering arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable; and•changes in tax, legal, or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our partners.If our joint ventures and strategic relationships are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations, or financial condition may be materially adversely affected.If our manufacturing process is disrupted, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.We manufacture products using highly complex processes that require technologically advanced equipment and continuous modification to improve yields and performance.  Difficulties in the manufacturing process or the effects from a shift in product mix can reduce yields or disrupt production and may increase our per gigabit manufacturing costs.  We maintain operations and continuously implement new product and process technology at our manufacturing operations which are widely dispersed in multiple locations in several countries including the U.S., Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, Malaysia, and China.  Additionally, our control over operations at IMFT, Inotera, MP Mask, and Tera Probe is limited by our agreements with our partners.  From time to time, we have experienced disruptions in our manufacturing process as a result of power outages, improperly functioning equipment, equipment failures, earthquakes, or other environmental events.  If production at a fabrication facility is disrupted for any reason, manufacturing yields may be adversely affected or we may be unable to meet our customers' requirements and they may purchase products from other suppliers.  This could result in a significant increase in manufacturing costs, loss of revenues, or damage to customer relationships, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 15The operations of the MMJ Companies are subject to continued oversight by the Japan Court during the pendency of the corporate reorganization proceedings.Because the plans of reorganization of the MMJ Companies provide for ongoing payments to creditors following the closing of our acquisition of MMJ, the Japan Proceedings are continuing, and the MMJ Companies remain subject to the oversight of the Japan Court and of the trustees (including a trustee designated by us, who we refer to as the business trustee, and a trustee designated by the Japan Court, who we refer to as the legal trustee), pending completion of the Japan Proceedings.  The Japan Proceedings and oversight of the Japan Court are expected to continue until the final creditor payment is made under the MMJ Companies' plans of reorganization, which is scheduled to occur in December 2019, but may occur on a later date to the extent any claims of creditors remain unfixed on the final scheduled installment payment date.  Although we may be able to petition the court to terminate the Japan Proceedings once two-thirds of all payments under the plans of reorganization are made, there can be no assurance that the Japan Court will grant any such petition.During the pendency of the Japan Proceedings, the MMJ Companies are obligated to provide periodic financial reports to the Japan Court and may be required to obtain the consent of the Japan Court prior to taking a number of significant actions relating to their businesses, including transferring or disposing of, or acquiring, certain material assets, incurring or guaranteeing material indebtedness, settling disputes, or entering into certain material agreements.  The consent of the legal trustee may also be required for matters that would likely have a material impact on the operations or assets of the MMJ Companies and their subsidiaries or for transfers of material assets, to the extent the matters or transfers would reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect execution of the plans of reorganization of the MMJ Companies.  Accordingly, during the pendency of the Japan Proceedings, our ability to effectively integrate the MMJ Companies as part of our global operations or to cause the MMJ Companies to take certain actions that we deem advisable for their businesses could be adversely affected if the Japan Court or the legal trustee is unwilling to consent to various actions that we may wish to take with respect to the MMJ Companies.Our Inotera supply agreements involves numerous risks.Since January 2013, we have purchased all of Inotera's DRAM output at a price reflecting a discount from market prices for our comparable components under a supply agreement.  In the second quarter of 2015, we executed a supply agreement, to be effective beginning on January 1, 2016 (the "2016 Supply Agreement"), which will replace the current agreement.  Under the 2016 Supply Agreement, the price for DRAM products sold to us will be based on a formula that equally shares margin between Inotera and us.  The 2016 Supply Agreement has an initial two-year term, followed by a three-year wind-down period, and contemplates negotiations in late 2016 with respect to a two-year extension, and annual negotiations thereafter with respect to successive one-year extensions.  Upon termination of the initial two-year term of the 2016 Supply Agreement, or any extensions, we would purchase DRAM from Inotera during the wind-down period.  Our share of Inotera's capacity would decline over the wind-down period.  Our Inotera supply agreements involve numerous risks including the following:•higher costs for supply obtained under the Inotera supply agreements as compared to our wholly-owned facilities;•difficulties and delays in ramping production at Inotera;•difficulties in transferring technology to Inotera; and•difficulties in coming to an agreement with Nanya regarding major corporate decisions, such as capital expenditures or capital structure.In 2015 and in 2014, our cost of products purchased from Inotera was significantly higher than our cost of similar products manufactured in our wholly-owned facilities, due to the pricing formula of the current agreement and strong market conditions.  For 2015, we purchased $2.37 billion of DRAM products from Inotera and our supply from Inotera accounted for 35% of our aggregate DRAM gigabit production.  If our supply of DRAM from Inotera is impacted, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 16Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Across our global operations, there are transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (our reporting currency), primarily the British pound, euro, shekel, Singapore dollar, New Taiwan dollar, yen, and yuan.  We recorded net losses from changes in currency exchange rates of $27 million for 2015, $28 million for 2014, and $229 million for 2013.  Based on our foreign currency exposures from monetary assets and liabilities, offset by balance sheet hedges, we estimate that a 10% adverse change in exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar would result in losses of approximately $3 million as of September 3, 2015.  In addition, a significant portion of our manufacturing costs are denominated in foreign currencies.  Exchange rates for some of these currencies against the U.S. dollar, particularly the yen, have been volatile in recent periods.  If these currencies strengthen against the U.S. dollar, our manufacturing costs could significantly increase.  In the event that exchange rates for the U.S. dollar adversely change against our foreign currency exposures, our results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.We may make future acquisitions and/or alliances, which involve numerous risks.Acquisitions and the formation or operation of alliances, such as joint ventures and other partnering arrangements, involve numerous risks including the following:•integrating the operations, technologies, and products of acquired or newly formed entities into our operations;•increasing capital expenditures to upgrade and maintain facilities;•increased debt levels;•the assumption of unknown or underestimated liabilities;•the use of cash to finance a transaction, which may reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, R&D expenditures, and other business activities;•diverting management's attention from daily operations;•managing larger or more complex operations and facilities and employees in separate and diverse geographic areas; •hiring and retaining key employees;•requirements imposed by governmental authorities in connection with the regulatory review of a transaction, which may include, among other things, divestitures or restrictions on the conduct of our business or the acquired business;•inability to realize synergies or other expected benefits;•failure to maintain customer, vendor, and other relationships;•inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired company's internal financial controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and/or environmental, health and safety, anti-corruption, human resource, or other policies or practices; and•impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill as a result of changing business conditions, technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired business.In previous years, supply of memory products has significantly exceeded customer demand resulting in significant declines in average selling prices for DRAM, NAND Flash, and NOR Flash products.  Resulting operating losses have led to the deterioration in the financial condition of a number of industry participants, including the liquidation of Qimonda and the 2012 bankruptcy filing by Elpida (now known as MMJ).  These types of proceedings often lead to court-directed processes involving the sale of related businesses or assets.  We believe the global memory industry is experiencing a period of consolidation as a result of these market conditions and other factors, and we may engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions and similar opportunities arising out of these industry conditions.  To the extent we are successful in completing any such transactions, we could be subject to some or all of the risks described above, including the risks pertaining to funding, assumption of liabilities, integration challenges, and increases in debt that may accompany such transactions.  Acquisitions of, or alliances with, high-technology companies are inherently risky and may not be successful and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Breaches of our network security could expose us to losses.We manage and store on our network systems various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations.  We also process, store, and transmit large amounts of data relating to our customers and employees, including sensitive personal information.  Unauthorized users may be able to gain access to our network system and steal proprietary information, compromise confidential information, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns.  These parties may also be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that disrupt our operations and create security vulnerabilities.  Attacks on our network systems could result in significant losses and damage our reputation with customers, and could expose us to litigation if the confidential information of our customers, suppliers, or employees is compromised. 17Compliance with regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.Increased focus on environmental protection and social responsibility initiatives led to the passage of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act") and its implementing Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.  The Dodd-Frank Act imposes supply chain diligence and disclosure requirements for certain manufacturers of products containing specific minerals that may originate in or near the Democratic Republic of the Congo (the "DRC") and finance or benefit local armed groups.  These "conflict minerals" are commonly found in materials used in the manufacture of semiconductors.  The implementation of these new regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of these materials.  This in turn may affect our ability to obtain materials necessary for the manufacture of our products in sufficient quantities and may affect related material pricing.  Some of our customers may elect to disqualify us as a supplier or reduce purchases from us if we are unable to verify that our products are DRC conflict free.We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure.We operate in a number of locations outside the U.S., including in Singapore, and, to a lesser extent, Taiwan, where we have tax incentive agreements that are, in part, conditional upon meeting certain business operations and employment thresholds.  Our domestic and international taxes are dependent upon the distribution of our earnings among these different jurisdictions.  Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liabilities in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including challenges by tax authorities to our tax structure, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, failure to meet performance obligations with respect to tax incentive agreements, and changes in tax laws and regulations.  We file income tax returns with the U.S. federal government, various U.S. states, and various other jurisdictions throughout the world.  Our U.S. federal and state tax returns remain open to examination for 2011 through 2015.  In addition, tax returns open to examination in multiple other taxing jurisdictions range from the years 2007 to 2015.  The results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.We may not utilize all of our net deferred tax assets.We have substantial deferred tax assets, which include, among others, net operating loss and credit carryforwards.  As of September 3, 2015, our U.S. federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, including uncertain tax benefits, were $4.02 billion and $2.05 billion, respectively, which, if not utilized, will expire at various dates from 2016 through 2035.  As of September 3, 2015, our foreign net operating loss carryforwards were $5.15 billion, including $3.81 billion pertaining to Japan, which, if not utilized, substantially all will expire at various dates from 2017 through 2025.  As of September 3, 2015, we had valuation allowances of $1.16 billion and $710 million against our net deferred tax assets in the U.S. and Japan, respectively.The limited availability of raw materials, supplies, or capital equipment could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Our operations require raw materials, and in certain cases, third party services, that meet exacting standards.  We generally have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials and services.  However, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials and services that meet our standards.  In some cases, materials, components, or services are provided by a single supplier.  Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials or components such as silicon wafers, controllers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, photoresist, lead frames, and molding compound.  Shortages may occur from time to time in the future.  We and/or our suppliers could be affected by laws and regulations enacted in response to concerns regarding climate change, which could increase the cost and limit the supply of our raw materials.  In addition, disruptions in transportation lines could delay our receipt of raw materials.  Lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past.  If our supply of raw materials or services is disrupted or our lead times extended, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 18Our operations are dependent on our ability to procure advanced semiconductor manufacturing equipment that enables the transition to lower cost manufacturing processes.  For certain key types of equipment, including photolithography tools, we are sometimes dependent on a single supplier.  From time to time we have experienced difficulties in obtaining some equipment on a timely basis due to the supplier's limited capacity.  Our inability to obtain this equipment timely could adversely affect our ability to transition to next generation manufacturing processes and reduce costs.  Delays in obtaining equipment could also impede our ability to ramp production at new facilities and increase our overall costs of the ramp.  If we are unable to obtain advanced semiconductor manufacturing equipment in a timely manner, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.A downturn in the worldwide economy may harm our business.Downturns in the worldwide economy have harmed our business in the past and future downturns could also adversely affect our business.  Adverse economic conditions affect demand for devices that incorporate our products, such as personal computers, mobile devices, solid-state drives, and servers.  Reduced demand for these products could result in significant decreases in our average selling prices and product sales.  A deterioration of current conditions in worldwide credit markets could limit our ability to obtain external financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures.  In addition, we may experience losses on our holdings of cash and investments due to failures of financial institutions and other parties.  Difficult economic conditions may also result in a higher rate of loss on our accounts receivables due to credit defaults.  As a result, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Our results of operations could be affected by natural disasters and other events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. We have manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to natural occurrences such as severe weather and geological events including earthquakes or tsunamis that could disrupt operations.  In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in such locations.  A natural disaster, fire, explosion, or other event that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or the operations of our customers or suppliers, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We face risks associated with our international sales and operations that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Sales to customers outside the United States approximated 84% of our consolidated net sales for 2015.  In addition, a substantial portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside the United States.  In particular, a significant portion of our manufacturing operations are concentrated in Singapore, Taiwan, and Japan.  Our international sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks, including:•export and import duties, changes to import and export regulations, customs regulations and processes, and restrictions on the transfer of funds;•compliance with U.S. and international laws involving international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export and import laws, and similar rules and regulations;•protection of intellectual property;•political and economic instability;•problems with the transportation or delivery of our products;•issues arising from cultural or language differences and labor unrest;•longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;•compliance with trade, technical standards, and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions;•contractual and regulatory limitations on our ability to maintain flexibility with our staffing levels;•disruptions to our manufacturing operations as a result of actions imposed by foreign governments;•changes in economic policies of foreign governments; and•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations.These factors may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 19We are subject to counterparty default risks. We have numerous arrangements with financial institutions that subject us to counterparty default risks, including cash deposits, investments, capped-call contracts on our stock, and derivative instruments.  As a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these arrangements will default on its performance obligations.  A counterparty may not comply with their contractual commitments which could then lead to their defaulting on their obligations with little or no notice to us, which could limit our ability to take action to mitigate our exposure.  Additionally, our ability to mitigate our exposures may be constrained by the terms of our contractual arrangements or because market conditions prevent us from taking effective action.  If one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty's default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable laws governing the bankruptcy proceeding.  In the event of such default, we could incur significant losses, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, or financial condition.ITEM 1B