Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  All period references are to the Company’s
fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated.

Corporate Information

Micron Technology,
Inc., and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to collectively as the “Company”),
a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 1978.  The Company’s executive offices are located
at 8000 South Federal Way, Boise, Idaho 83716-9632 and its telephone number is
(208) 368-4000.  Information about the
Company is available on the internet at www.micron.com.  Copies of the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well
as any amendments to these reports, are available through the Company’s website
as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Also available on the Company’s website are
its:  Corporate Governance Guidelines,
Governance Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Audit Committee
Charter and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.  Any amendments or waivers of the Company’s
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will also be posted on the Company’s
website at www.micron.com within four business days of the amendment or
waiver.  Copies of these documents are
available to shareholders upon request. 
Information contained or referenced on the Company’s website is not
incorporated by reference and does not form a part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.  In February 2006, the Company’s
Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was
not aware of any violation by the Company of the NYSE’s Corporate Governance
Listing Standards.

Overview

The Company is an industry leading, global manufacturer and marketer of
semiconductor devices, principally DRAM and NAND Flash memory and CMOS image
sensors.  The Company’s products are
offered in a wide variety of package and configuration options, architectures
and performance characteristics tailored to meet application and customer
needs.  Individual devices take advantage
of the Company’s advanced silicon processing technology and manufacturing
expertise.  The Company aims to
continually introduce new generations of products that offer lower costs per
unit and improved performance characteristics. 
The Company operates in two segments, Memory and Imaging.

Memory:  The
Memory segment’s primary products are DRAM and NAND Flash, which are key
components used in a broad array of electronic applications, including personal
computers, workstations, network servers, mobile phones, flash memory cards,
USB storage devices, MP3 players and other consumer electronics products.  The Company sells primarily to original
equipment manufacturers, distributors and retailers located around the world.

In 2006, the Company took several steps towards establishing a
significant presence in the NAND Flash market. 
In January 2006, the Company partnered with Intel Corporation (“Intel”)
to form a NAND Flash manufacturing joint venture, IM Flash Technologies, LLC (“IMFT”),
which is a consolidated subsidiary of the Company.  IMFT initiated an accelerated build-out and
production ramp at two 300mm wafer fabrication facilities that are expected to
greatly increase the Company’s production of NAND Flash in 2007.  Furthering its efforts to increase its share
of the NAND market, in June 2006, the Company acquired Lexar Media, Inc. (“Lexar”),
a designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of Flash memory products, in a
stock-for-stock merger.  The acquisition
of Lexar broadened the Company’s NAND product offering, enhanced the Company’s
retail presence and strengthened its portfolio of intellectual property.


 1 



   


 

Imaging: The Imaging segment’s primary products are CMOS
image sensors, which are key components used in a broad array of electronic
applications, including mobile phones, digital still cameras, webcams and other
consumer, security and automotive applications. 
The Company’s primary customers are camera module integrators located
around the world.  During 2006, the
Company introduced several new leading-edge Imaging products and significantly
increased its Imaging production, enabling it to become a market leader for
CMOS image sensors.

Products

Memory:  The
Company’s Memory segment has two primary product types:  DRAM and NAND Flash.  Sales of Memory products were 86%, 94% and
98% of the Company’s total net sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Dynamic Random Access Memory (“DRAM”):  DRAM
products are high-density, low-cost-per-bit, random access memory devices that
provide high-speed data storage and retrieval. 
DRAM products were 76%, 87% and 92% of the Company’s total net sales in
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  The
Company offers DRAM products with a variety of performance, pricing and other
characteristics.  In recent years, the Company
has significantly increased its production and sales of specialty memory
products such as pseudo-static RAM, Mobile DRAM and Reduced Latency DRAM.  Specialty memory products are generally
targeted for networking, server and mobile applications that require specific
performance characteristics such as low power and low latency.  The transition to specialty memory products
has reduced the Company’s concentration on standardized, high-volume products
sold for use as main memory in computers such as Double Data Rate Synchronous
DRAM (“DDR”) and DDR2.

DDR
and DDR2:  DDR
and DDR2 are standardized, high-density, high-volume, DRAM products that are
sold primarily for use as main system memory in computers.  DDR and DDR2 products offer high speed and
high bandwidth at a relatively low cost compared to other semiconductor memory
products.  DDR products were 26%, 44% and
57% of the Company’s total net sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  DDR2 products were 25% and 14% the Company’s
total net sales in 2006 and 2005, respectively. 
The Company expects that DDR and DDR2 products will continue to decrease
as a percentage of the Company’s total net sales in 2007 due to significant
increases in sales of the Company’s other products.

In response to
changes in the DRAM market, the Company has broadened its DDR and DDR2 product
offerings in recent years.  The Company
offers DDR products in 128 megabit (“Mb”), 256 Mb, 512 Mb and 1 gigabit (“Gb”)
densities.  The Company also offers 256
Mb, 512 Mb, 1 Gb and 2 Gb DDR2 products. 
The Company expects that these densities will be necessary to meet
future customer demands for a broad array of products.  The Company also offers its DDR and DDR2
products in multiple configurations, speeds and package types.  In September 2006, the Company began sampling
a 1 Gb DDR3 device.

Synchronous
DRAM (“SDRAM”):  In
2006 and 2005, SDRAM was primarily used in networking devices, servers,
consumer electronics, communications equipment and computer peripherals as well
as memory upgrades to legacy computers. 
Sales of SDRAM products were 16%, 20% and 31% of the Company’s total net
sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 
SDRAM sales have declined as personal computer manufacturers have
transitioned to DDR and DDR2 products. 
The decline has been partially offset by increased usage of SDRAM
products in other applications.  The Company offers 64 Mb, 128 Mb, 256 Mb and
512 Mb SDRAM products.

Pseudo-static
RAM (“PSRAM”):  PSRAM
products, marketed by the Company under the proprietary brand name CellularRAM™, are DRAM products with an SRAM-like
interface.  PSRAM combines the minimal
power consumption of SRAM with a much lower cost-per-bit to provide an
economical alternative to SRAM.  PSRAM
products are used primarily in cellular phone applications.  The Company offers PSRAM products in 16 Mb,
32 Mb, 64 Mb and 128 Mb densities.  The
Company is the market leader in sales of PSRAM products.  Sales of PSRAM products were 8% and 7% of the
Company’s total net sales in 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Mobile
DRAM:  Mobile DRAM
products are specialty DRAM memory devices designed for applications that
demand minimal power consumption, such as personal digital assistants (PDAs),
smart phones, GPS devices, digital still cameras and other handheld electronic
devices.  The Company sells SDRAM and DDR
mobile memory products in 64 Mb, 128 Mb, 256 Mb and 512 Mb densities.  The Company’s mobile DRAM products feature
its proprietary Endur-IC™ technology, which the Company believes provides
distinct advantages to its customers in terms of low power, high quality and
high reliability.


 2 



   


 

Reduced
Latency DRAM (“RLDRAM”): 
RLDRAM products are low-latency DRAM memory devices with high clock
rates targeted at network applications. 
The Company offers RLDRAM in 256 Mb and 288 Mb densities and expects to
begin shipping 576 Mb densities in 2007.

NAND
Flash Memory:  Flash memory products are electrically
re-writeable, non-volatile semiconductor devices that retain memory content
when power is turned off.  The Company’s
Flash efforts are concentrated on NAND Flash (“NAND”) devices which use
semiconductor technology similar to DRAM. 
NAND is ideal for mass-storage devices due to its faster erase
and write times, higher density, and lower cost per bit than NOR Flash, which
is the primary competing Flash architecture. 
The
market for NAND products has grown rapidly and the Company expects it to
continue to grow due to demand for removable and embedded storage devices.  Removable storage devices such as USB and
Flash memory cards are used with applications such as personal computers,
digital still cameras, MP3 players and mobile phones.  Embedded NAND-based storage devices are also
utilized in mobile phones and other personal and consumer applications.

NAND and DRAM
share common manufacturing processes, enabling the Company
to leverage its product and process technologies and manufacturing
infrastructure.  The Company’s NAND
designs feature a small cell structure that allows for higher densities for
demanding applications.  In 2006, the
Company offered NAND products in 1 Gb, 2 Gb, 4 Gb and 8 Gb densities and plans
to introduce 16 Gb densities in 2007.  In
2006, the Company’s products were manufactured primarily using 72nm and 90nm
line-width process technology and began sampling products manufactured using
50nm line-width process technology.  In
addition, in 2006, the Company began sampling Multi-Level Cell (“MLC”) NAND
products, which double the bit density compared to single level cell
products.  NAND sales were 6% of the
Company’s total net sales in 2006.  The
Company expects sales of NAND to increase significantly in 2007 and 2008 as it
ramps production from two 300mm facilities dedicated to NAND production and
recognizes sales by its Lexar subsidiary.

As a result of its
acquisition of Lexar, the Company began selling in the fourth quarter of 2006
high-performance digital media products and other flash-based storage products
through retail and original equipment manufacturing (OEM) channels.  The Company’s digital media products include
a variety of Flash memory cards with a range of speeds, capacities and
value-added features.  The Company’s
digital media products also include its JumpDrive™ products, which are
high-speed, portable USB flash drives for consumer applications that serve a
variety of uses, including floppy disk replacement, digital media accessories
and a variety of connectivity products that link media products to PCs and
other electronic host devices.  The
Company also licenses its patented controller technology to other companies.

The Company offers
Flash memory cards in all major media formats currently used by digital cameras
and other electronic host devices, including: 
CompactFlash, Memory Stick, Secure Digital Card and the xD Picture
Card.  Many of CompactFlash, Memory Stick
and Memory Stick PRO products sold by the Company incorporate its patented
controller technology.  Other products, including
Secure Digital Card Flash memory cards and some JumpDrive products, incorporate
third party controllers.  The Company
also resells Flash memory products that are purchased from suppliers.  The Company offers Flash memory cards in a
variety of speeds and capacities.  The
Company also offers more advanced features in some Flash media card products
that provide additional performance advantages, such as Write Acceleration, or
WA technology, the ActiveMemory™ System and LockTight™ CompactFlash.  The Company sells products under its Lexar™
brand and also manufactures products that are sold under other brand
names.  The Company has a multi-year
agreement with Eastman Kodak to sell digital media products under the Kodak
brand name.

Imaging: Complementary Metal-Oxide Semiconductor (“CMOS”)
image sensors are the primary product of the Company’s Imaging segment.  CMOS image sensors are semiconductor devices
that capture and process images into pictures or video for a variety of
consumer and industrial applications. 
The Company’s CMOS image sensors are used in products such as cellular
phone cameras, digital still cameras, pill cameras for medical use, and in
automotive and other emerging applications. 
The
Company offers image sensors in a range of pixel resolutions from its VGA
(video graphics array) products to its higher resolution 3.1-megapixel
products.  The Company has begun sampling
a 5-megapixel sensor designed for use in digital still cameras and camera
phones that it expects to begin shipping in commercial volumes in 2007.  In 2006, the Company introduced an
8-megapixel sensor featuring a leading-edge pixel size of 1.75 square
microns.  Image sensors are sold either as
individual components or combined with integrated circuitry to create complete
camera system-on-a-chip (“SOC”) solutions.

The Company’s CMOS
image sensors incorporating its DigitalClarity™ technology offered many advantages over other
CMOS image sensors and charge-coupled device (“CCD”) sensors in 2006, which
enabled the Company to become the leader in CMOS image sensor market
share.  The Company’s DigitalClarity™
technology features “active pixels” enabling better sensor performance that
produces higher-quality images at faster frame rates.  The Company’s low-leakage DRAM processes are
particularly well-suited for the manufacture of CMOS image sensors.  The Company’s CMOS image sensors consume
substantially less power than CCD devices, a critical advantage in
battery-dependent portable device applications where most


 3 



   


 

image sensors are used.  By combining all camera functions on a single
chip, from the capture of photons to the output of digital bits, CMOS image
sensors reduce the part-count of a digital camera system, which in turn
increases reliability, eases miniaturization, and enables on-chip programming
of frame size, windowing, exposure and other camera parameters.  The Company’s CMOS image sensors are also
capable of producing high-quality images in low-light conditions.  In 2006, the Company’s CMOS image sensors’
active-pixel design architecture enabled the Company to achieve CMOS imager
performance that was comparable to high-end CCD sensors and better than that of
its competitor’s CMOS image sensors.

Sales of Imaging
products were 14%, 6% and 2% of the Company’s total net sales in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively.  The Company expects
its sales of CMOS image sensors to continue to grow in 2007 due to strong
demand and increases in the allocation of manufacturing capacity.  The overall market for image sensors is
expected to increase significantly over the next several years due to the
growth forecasted for applications such as phone cameras and digital still
cameras.  Additionally, CMOS image
sensors are expected to capture an increasing percentage of the overall image
sensor market.

Manufacturing

The Company’s
manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, Italy, Japan, Puerto
Rico and Singapore.  The Company’s
manufacturing facilities generally operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per
week.  Semiconductor manufacturing is extremely
capital intensive, requiring large investments in sophisticated facilities and
equipment.  Most semiconductor equipment
must be replaced every three to five years with increasingly advanced
equipment.

The Company’s process for manufacturing semiconductor products is
complex, involving a number of precise steps, including wafer fabrication,
assembly and test.  Efficient production
of semiconductor products requires utilization of advanced semiconductor
manufacturing techniques and effective deployment of these techniques across
multiple facilities.  The primary
determinants of manufacturing cost are die size, number of mask layers, number
of fabrication steps and number of good die produced on each wafer.  Other factors that contribute to manufacturing
costs are wafer size, cost and sophistication of manufacturing equipment,
equipment utilization, process complexity, cost of raw materials, labor
productivity, package type and cleanliness of the manufacturing environment.  The Company is continuously enhancing
production processes, reducing die sizes and transitioning to higher density
products.  In 2006, the Company
manufactured most of its DRAM products using
its 95 nanometer (“nm”) and 110nm line-width process technology and began
transferring production to 78nm line-width process technology.  The Company expects to continue to transfer
more of its DRAM production to 78nm and lower line-width process technology in
2007.  In 2006, the Company
manufactured most of its NAND Flash memory products using its 72nm and 90nm line-width process
technology.  The Company expects to begin
transferring its NAND production to 50nm line-width process technology in 2007.

Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment to
minimize dust and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants.  Despite stringent manufacturing controls,
dust particles, equipment errors, minute impurities in materials, defects in
photomasks and circuit design marginalities or defects can lead to wafers being
scrapped and individual circuits being nonfunctional.  Success of the Company’s manufacturing
operations depends largely on minimizing defects and thereby maximizing yield
of high-quality circuits.  In this
regard, the Company employs rigorous quality controls throughout the
manufacturing, screening and testing processes. 
The Company is able to recover many nonstandard devices by testing and
grading them to their highest level of functionality.

After fabrication, silicon wafers are separated into individual die.  The Company sells semiconductor products in
both packaged and unpackaged (i.e. “bare die”) forms.  For packaged products, functional die are
sorted, connected to external leads and encapsulated in plastic packages.  The Company assembles products in a variety
of packages, including TSOP (thin small outline package), TQFP (thin quad flat
package) and FBGA (fine pitch ball grid array).  Bare die products address
customer requirements for smaller form factors and higher memory densities and
provide superior flexibility.  Bare die
products are used in packaging technologies such as systems-in-a-package (SIPs)
and multi-chip packages (MCPs), which reduce the board area required.

The Company tests its products at various stages in the manufacturing
process, performs high temperature burn-in on finished products and conducts
numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production
flow.  In addition, the Company uses its
proprietary AMBYX™ line of intelligent test and burn-in systems to perform
simultaneous circuit tests of DRAM die during the burn-in process, capturing
quality and reliability data and reducing testing time and cost.


 4 



   


 

The Company assembles a significant portion of its memory products into
memory modules.  Memory modules consist
of an array of memory components attached to printed circuit boards (“PCBs”)
that insert directly into computer systems or other electronic devices.  The Company’s Lexar subsidiary contracts with
an independent foundry and assembly and testing organizations to manufacture flash
media products such as memory cards and USB devices.

In 2006, the
Company significantly increased its 300mm wafer production.  In 2007, the Company plans to continue
increasing its 300mm wafer manufacturing capacity as its IMFT subsidiary ramps
NAND Flash production at two 300mm facilities and the Company’s consolidated
TECH joint venture converts its DRAM production to 300mm wafers.

In recent years
the Company has produced an increasingly broad portfolio of products, which
enhances the Company’s ability to allocate resources to its most profitable
products but increases the complexity of the manufacturing process.  Although new product lines such as NAND
Flash, CMOS image sensors and specialty memory can be manufactured using
processes that are very similar to the processes for the Company’s predominant
DRAM products, frequent conversions to new products and the allocation of
manufacturing capacity to more complex, smaller-volume parts can affect the
Company’s cost efficiency.  The Company’s
ability to competitively manufacture many of these products on existing 200mm
lines extends the useful life of this equipment.

IM Flash Technologies,
LLC (“IMFT”): 
IMFT, which began operations on January 6, 2006, is a joint venture
between the Company and Intel.  IMFT
manufactures NAND Flash memory products pursuant to NAND Flash designs
developed by the Company and Intel and licensed to the Company.  The parties share the output of IMFT
generally in proportion to their investment in IMFT.  The Company owned a 51% interest in IMFT at
August 31, 2006.  IMFT’s financial
results are included in the consolidated financial statements of the
Company.  (See “Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements —
Joint Ventures — IM Flash Technologies, LLC.”)

TECH Semiconductor
Singapore Pte. Ltd. (“TECH”):  TECH is a memory
manufacturing joint venture in Singapore among Micron Technology, Inc., the
Singapore Economic Development Board, Canon Inc. and Hewlett-Packard
Company.  The Company owned an
approximate 43% interest in TECH at August 31, 2006.  TECH’s semiconductor manufacturing facilities
use the Company’s product and process technology.  Subject to specific terms and conditions, the
Company has agreed to purchase all of the products manufactured by TECH.  TECH supplied approximately 25%, 25% and 30%
of the total megabits of memory produced by the Company in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  TECH’s financial results
were included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company beginning
in the third quarter of 2006.  (See “Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Joint
Ventures — TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.”)

MP
Mask Technology Center, LLC (“MP Mask”):   In the third quarter
of 2006, the Company formed a joint venture, MP Mask, with Photronics, Inc. (“Photronics”)
to produce photomasks for leading-edge and advanced next generation
semiconductors.  The Company contributed
its then existing reticle manufacturing operation to the venture and sold a
49.99% interest in MP Mask to Photronics. 
The Company and Photronics also entered into supply arrangements wherein
the Company is expected to purchase a substantial majority of the reticles
produced by MP Mask.  The financial
results of MP Mask are included in the consolidated financial results of the
Company.

Availability of Raw Materials

The Company’s
production processes require raw materials that meet exacting standards,
including several that are customized for, or unique to, the Company.  The Company generally has multiple sources of
supply; however, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering
certain raw materials that meet the Company’s standards.  Various factors could reduce the availability
of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, lead
frames, molding compound and other materials. 
In addition, any transportation problems could delay the Company’s
receipt of raw materials.  Although raw
materials shortages or transportation problems have not interrupted the Company’s
operations in the past, shortages may occur from time to time in the
future.  Also, lead times for the supply
of raw materials have been extended in the past.  If the Company’s supply of raw materials is
interrupted, or lead times are extended, results of operations could be
adversely affected.


 5 



   


 

Marketing and
Customers

The Company’s products
are sold into computing and consumer, networking and telecommunications, and
imaging markets.  Approximately 70% of
the Company’s net sales for 2006 were to the computing market, including
desktop PCs, notebooks, servers and workstations.  Sales to Hewlett-Packard Company exceeded 10%
of the Company’s net sales in 2006. 
Sales to both Hewlett-Packard Company and Dell Computer Corporation
exceeded 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2005 and 2004, and aggregated 23%
and 27% of the Company’s net sales in 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The Company
markets its semiconductor products primarily through its own direct sales
force.  The Company maintains inventory
at locations in close proximity to certain key customers to facilitate rapid
delivery of product shipments.  The
Company’s products are also offered through independent sales representatives
and distributors.  Lexar sells NAND Flash
memory through retail and OEM channels and Crucial Technology offers its
products through the Company’s web-based customer direct sales division.  The Company’s products are offered under the
Micron, Lexar, SpecTek and Crucial brand names, and under other private
labels.  The Company maintains sales
offices in all of its primary markets around the world.  Independent sales representatives obtain
orders subject to final acceptance by the Company and are compensated on a
commission basis.  The Company makes
shipments against these orders directly to the customer.  Distributors carry the Company’s products in
inventory and typically sell a variety of other semiconductor products,
including competitors’ products.

The Company offers
products designed to meet the diverse needs of computing, server, automotive,
networking, security, commercial/industrial, consumer electronics, medical and
mobile applications.  Many of the Company’s
customers require a thorough review or qualification of semiconductor products,
which may take several months.  As the
Company further diversifies its product lines and reduces the die sizes of
existing products, more products become subject to qualification which may
delay volume introduction of specific devices by the Company.

Backlog

Volatile industry
conditions make customers reluctant to enter into long-term, fixed-price
contracts.  Accordingly, new order
volumes for the Company’s semiconductor products fluctuate significantly.  Orders are typically accepted with acknowledgment
that the terms may be adjusted to reflect market conditions at the date of
shipment.  Customers can change delivery
schedules or cancel orders without significant penalty.  For these reasons, the Company does not
believe that its order backlog as of any particular date is a reliable
indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period.

Product
Warranty

Because the design
and manufacturing process for semiconductor products is highly complex, it is
possible that the Company may produce products that do not comply with customer
specifications, contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end
uses.  In accordance with industry practice, the Company generally
provides a limited warranty that its products are in compliance with Company
specifications existing at the time of delivery.  Under the Company’s
general terms and conditions of sale, liability for certain failures of product
during a stated warranty period is usually limited to repair or replacement of
defective items or return of, or a credit with respect to, amounts paid for
such items.  Under certain circumstances the Company may provide more
extensive limited warranty coverage and general legal principles may impose
more extensive liability than that provided under the Company’s general terms
and conditions.

Competition

The Company faces
intense competition in the semiconductor memory markets from a number of
companies, including Elpida Memory, Inc.; Hynix Semiconductor Inc.; Qimonda AG
ADS; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd; SanDisk Corporation; Toshiba Corporation and
emerging companies in Taiwan and China. 
Some of the Company’s competitors are large corporations or
conglomerates that may have greater resources to withstand downturns in the
semiconductor markets in which the Company competes, invest in technology and
capitalize on growth opportunities.  The
Company’s competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, reduce
die size and minimize mask levels in their product designs.  These factors have significantly increased
worldwide supply and put downward pressure on prices.


 6 



   


 

The Company faces
competition in the image sensor market from a number of suppliers of CMOS image
sensors including MagnaChip Semiconductor Ltd.; OmniVision Technologies, Inc.;
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd; Sony Corporation; STMicroelectronics NV; Toshiba
Corporation and from a number of suppliers of CCD image sensors including
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd.; Sharp Corporation and Sony
Corporation.  In recent periods, a number
of new companies have entered the CMOS image sensor market.  Competitors include many large domestic and
international companies that may have greater presence in key markets, better
access to certain customer bases, greater name recognition and more established
strategic and financial relationships than the Company.

Research and Development

To compete in the semiconductor memory industry, the
Company must continue to develop technologically advanced products and
processes.  The Company believes that
expansion of its semiconductor product offerings is necessary to meet expected
market demand for specific memory and imaging solutions.  The Company has several product design
centers around the world, the largest located at its corporate headquarters in
Boise, Idaho.  In addition, the Company
develops leading edge photolithography mask technology at its MP Mask joint
venture facility in Boise.

Research and
development (“R&D”) expenses vary primarily with the number of development
wafers processed, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and
process development, and personnel costs. 
Because of the lead times necessary to manufacture its products, the
Company typically begins to process wafers before completion of performance and
reliability testing.  The Company deems
development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed
and tested for performance and reliability. 
R&D expenses can vary significantly depending on the timing of
product qualification.  The Company and
Intel share R&D process and design costs for NAND Flash equally.  Product development costs are recorded as
R&D expense.

The Company’s
process technology R&D efforts are focused primarily on development of
successively smaller line-width process technologies which are designed to
facilitate the Company’s transition to next generation memory products and CMOS
image sensors.  Additional process
technology R&D efforts focus on specialty memory products (including PSRAM,
mobile SDRAM and reduced latency DRAM) and new manufacturing materials.  Product design and development efforts are
concentrated on the Company’s 1 Gb and 2 Gb DDR, DDR2 and DDR3 products as well
as high density and mobile NAND Flash memory (including multi-level cell
technology), CMOS image sensors and specialty memory products.  The Company’s R&D expenses were $656
million, $604 million and $755 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Geographic Information

Sales to customers
outside the United States totaled $3.6 billion for 2006 and included $1.0
billion in sales to China, $719 million in sales to Europe, $494 million in
sales to Japan and $1.1 billion in sales to the rest of the Asia Pacific
region, excluding China and Japan. 
International sales totaled $3.2 billion for 2005 and $2.6 billion for
2004.  As of August 31, 2006, the Company
had net property, plant and equipment of $4.4 billion in the United States,
$867 million in Singapore, $269 million in Japan, $318 million in Italy and $12
million in other countries.

Patents and Licenses

In recent years,
the Company has been recognized as a leader in volume and quality of patents
issued.  As of August 31, 2006, the
Company owned approximately 14,500 U.S. patents and 1,500 foreign patents.  In addition, the Company has numerous U.S.
and foreign patent applications pending. 
The Company’s patents have terms expiring through 2025.

The Company has a
number of patent and intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require the
Company to make one time or periodic payments. 
The Company may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew
existing license agreements in the future. 
The Company is unable to predict whether these license agreements can be
obtained or renewed on acceptable terms.

 


 7









   

 

Employees

As of August 31, 2006,
the Company had approximately 23,500 employees, including approximately 14,100
in the United States, 5,500 in Singapore, 2,000 in Italy, 1,400 in Japan and
300 in the United Kingdom.  The Company’s
employees include 2,400 employees in its TECH joint venture that are located in
Singapore and 800 employees in its IMFT joint venture that are located in the
United States.  The Company added
approximately 300 employees from its acquisition of Lexar Media, Inc. in the
fourth quarter of 2006.  The Company’s
employees in Italy are represented by labor organizations that have entered
into national and local labor contracts with the Company.  The Company’s employment levels can vary
depending on market conditions and the level of the Company’s production,
research and product and process development. 
Many of the Company’s employees are highly skilled, and the Company’s
continued success depends in part upon its ability to attract and retain such
employees.  The loss of key Company personnel
could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of
operations or financial condition.

Environmental Compliance

Government
regulations impose various environmental controls on raw materials and
discharges, emissions and solid wastes from the Company’s manufacturing
processes.  In 2006, the Company’s wafer
fabrication facilities continued to conform to the requirements of ISO 14001
certification.  To continue
certification, the Company met annual requirements in environmental policy,
compliance, planning, management, structure and responsibility, training,
communication, document control, operational control, emergency preparedness
and response, record keeping and management review.  While the Company has not experienced any
materially adverse effects on its operations from environmental regulations,
changes in the regulations could necessitate additional capital expenditures,
modification of operations or other compliance actions.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant

Officers of the
Company are appointed annually by the Board of Directors.  Directors of the Company are elected annually
by the shareholders of the Company.  Any
directors appointed by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board
serve until the next election by the shareholders.  All officers and directors serve until their
successors are duly chosen or elected and qualified, except in the case of
earlier death, resignation or removal.

As of August 31,
2006, the following executive officers and directors of the Company were
subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Position
  
 
 
  
  Mark W. Adams
  
  
   
  
  
  42
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President of Digital Media Products
  
 
 
  
  Steven R. Appleton
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
  
 
 
  
  Kipp A. Bedard
  
  
   
  
  
  47
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President of Investor Relations
  
 
 
  
  Jan du Preez
  
  
   
  
  
  49
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President of Memory Marketing
  
 
 
  
  D. Mark Durcan 
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
  
  Chief Operating Officer 
  
 
 
  
  Robert J. Gove
  
  
   
  
  
  53
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President of Imaging Group
  
 
 
  
  Jay L. Hawkins
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President of Operations
  
 
 
  
  Roderic W. Lewis
  
  
   
  
  
  51
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and
  Corporate Secretary
  
 
 
  
  Michael W. Sadler
  
  
   
  
  
  49
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President of Worldwide Sales
  
 
 
  
  Brian J. Shields
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President of Worldwide Wafer Fabrication
  
 
 
  
  Brian M. Shirley
  
  
   
  
  
  37
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President Memory
  
 
 
  
  Wilbur G. Stover, Jr.
  
  
   
  
  
  53
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial
  Officer
  
 
 
  
  Teruaki Aoki
  
  
   
  
  
  65
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
 
 
  
  James W. Bagley
  
  
   
  
  
  67
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
 
 
  
  Mercedes Johnson
  
  
   
  
  
  52
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
 
 
  
  Robert A. Lothrop
  
  
   
  
  
  80
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
 
 
  
  Lawrence N. Mondry
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
 
 
  
  Gordon C. Smith
  
  
   
  
  
  77
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
 
 
  
  Robert E. Switz
  
  
   
  
  
  60
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
 
 
  
  William P. Weber
  
  
   
  
  
  66
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
 


 


 8 



   


 

Mark W.
Adams joined the Company in June 2006.  From January 2006 until he joined the
Company, Mr. Adams was the Chief Operating Officer of Lexar Media, Inc.  Mr. Adams served as the Vice President of
Sales and Marketing for Creative Labs, Inc. from December 2002 to January
2006.  From March 2000 to September 2002,
Mr. Adams was the Chief Executive Officer of Coresma, Inc.  Mr. Adams holds a BA in Economics from Boston
College and an MBA from Harvard Business School.

Steven R.
Appleton joined the Company in February 1983 and has served
in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Appleton first became an officer of the
Company in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions with the
Company since that time.  From April 1991
until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Appleton has served on the Company’s
Board of Directors.  Since September
1994, Mr. Appleton has served as the Chief Executive Officer, President and
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company.  Mr. Appleton is a member of the Board of
Directors of National Semiconductor Corporation.  Mr. Appleton holds a BA in Business Management
from Boise State University.

Kipp A.
Bedard joined the Company in November 1983 and has served in
various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Bedard first became an officer of the
Company in April 1990 and has served in various officer positions since that
time.  Since January 1994, Mr. Bedard has
served as Vice President of Investor Relations for the Company.  Mr. Bedard holds a BBA in Accounting from
Boise State University.

Jan
du Preez joined the Company in June 2002 as an officer and
has served in various officer positions since that time.  Mr. du Preez served as the President of
Infineon Technologies North America Corporation from August 2000 until he
joined the Company in June 2002.  From
October 1996 through July 2000, Mr. du Preez served as the Vice President of
Memory Products Group for Infineon Technologies North America Corporation
(formerly Siemens Semiconductors).  Mr.
du Preez holds Bachelors Degrees in Public Administration and Business
Economics from the University of Pretoria and a Masters Degree in Commerce from
Rand University.

D. Mark
Durcan joined the Company in June 1984 and has served in
various technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries since that
time.  Mr. Durcan was appointed Chief
Operating Officer in February 2006.  Mr.
Durcan has been an officer of the Company since 1996.  Mr. Durcan holds a BS and MChE in Chemical
Engineering from Rice University.

Robert
J. Gove joined the Company in March 1999 as Senior Director
of Engineering and has served in various positions with the Company.  In March 2002, he was appointed Vice
President of Imaging.  Prior to joining
the Company, Dr. Gove served as Vice President, Engineering, of Equator
Technologies, Inc.  Dr. Gove holds a BS
in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and an MS in
Electrical Engineering and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern
Methodist University.

Jay L.
Hawkins joined the Company in March 1984 and has served in
various manufacturing positions for the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Hawkins served as Vice President,
Manufacturing Administration from February 1996 through June 1997, at which
time he became Vice President of Operations. 
Mr. Hawkins holds a BBA in Marketing from Boise State University.

Roderic
W. Lewis joined the Company in August 1991 and has served in
various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Lewis has served as Vice President of
Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 1996.  Mr. Lewis holds a BA in Economics and Asian
Studies from Brigham Young University and a JD from Columbia University School
of Law.

Michael
W. Sadler joined the Company in September 1992 as a Regional Sales Manager and has held various
sales and marketing positions since that time. 
Mr. Sadler became an officer of the Company in July 1997 and has served
as Vice President of Worldwide Sales since November 2001.  Mr. Sadler holds a BS in Information Systems
and an MBA from the University of Santa Clara.

Brian J. Shields
joined the Company in November 1996 and has served in various operational
positions with the Company.  Mr. Shields
first became an officer of the Company in March 2003.

Brian M. Shirley
joined the Company in August 1992 and has served in various technical positions
with the Company.  Mr. Shirley became an
officer of the Company in February 2006. 
Mr. Shirley holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from Stanford
University.


 9 



   


 

Wilbur G.
Stover, Jr. joined the Company in June 1989 and has served in
various financial positions with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Since September 1994, Mr. Stover has served
as the Company’s Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Stover holds a BA in Business
Administration from Washington State University.

Teruaki
Aoki is President of Sony University and Managing Director of
Sony Foundation for Education.  Dr. Aoki
has been associated with Sony since 1970 and has held various executive
positions, including Senior Executive Vice President and Executive Officer of
Sony Corporation as well as President and Chief Operating Officer of Sony
Electronics, a U.S. subsidiary.  Dr. Aoki
holds a Ph.D. in Material Sciences from Northwestern University as well as a BS
in Applied Physics from the University of Tokyo.  He was elected as an IEEE Fellow in 2003 and
serves as Advisory Board Member of Kellogg School of Management of Northwestern
University.

James W.
Bagley became the Executive Chairman of Lam Research
Corporation (“Lam”), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, in
June 2005.  From August 1997 through June
2005, Mr. Bagley served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Lam.  Mr. Bagley is a member of the Board
of Directors of Teradyne, Inc.  He has
served on the Company’s Board of Directors since June 1996.  Mr. Bagley holds a MS and BS in Electrical
Engineering from Mississippi State University. 
Mr. Bagley serves as the presiding director of executive sessions of the
Company’s Board of Directors.

Mercedes
Johnson has served
as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Avago Technologies
Limited, a semiconductor company, since December 2005.  Prior to that, she served as the Senior
Vice President, Finance, of Lam from June 2004 to January 2005 and as Lam’s
Chief Financial Officer from May 1997 to May 2004.  Before joining Lam, Ms. Johnson spent 10
years with Applied Materials, Inc., where she served in various senior
financial management positions, including vice president and worldwide
operations controller.  Ms. Johnson holds
a degree in accounting from the University of Buenos Aires and currently serves
on the Board of Directors for Intersil Corporation.  Ms. Johnson is the Chairman of
the Board’s Audit Committee.

Robert A.
Lothrop served as Senior Vice President of J.R. Simplot
Company, an agribusiness company, from January 1986 until his retirement in
January 1991.  From August 1986 until
July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Lothrop has served on the Board of Directors
of the Company.  Mr. Lothrop holds a BS
in Engineering from the University of Idaho.

Lawrence
N. Mondry served as the Chief Executive Officer of CompUSA
Inc. from November 2003 to May 2006.  Mr.
Mondry joined CompUSA in 1990 as Senior Vice President and General Merchandise
Manager.  He was promoted to Executive
Vice President-Merchandising in 1993, and President and Chief Operating Officer
of CompUSA Stores in 2000.  Mr. Mondry
currently serves on the Board of Directors for Golfsmith, Inc.  Mr. Mondry is the Chairman of the Board’s
Compensation Committee.

Gordon C.
Smith has served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of SFG LLC, a holding company for agriculture operations and other investments,
since January 2005.  Mr. Smith has also
served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of G.C. Smith LLC since May
2000.  From July 1980 to March 1994, Mr.
Smith served in various management positions with J.R. Simplot Company,
including four years as President and Chief Executive Officer, and seven years
as Chief Financial Officer.  From
February 1982 until February 1984 and since September 1990, he has served on
the Company’s Board of Directors.  Mr.
Smith holds a BS in Accounting from Idaho State University.

Robert E.
Switz is currently President and CEO of ADC
Telecommunications, Inc., a supplier of network infrastructure products and
services.  Mr. Switz has been with ADC
since 1994 and prior to his current position, served ADC as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer. 
Mr. Switz holds an MBA from the University of Bridgeport as well as a
degree in marketing/economics from Quinnipiac University.  Mr. Switz also serves as a director on the
board of Broadcom Corporation.  Mr. Switz
is the Chairman of the Board’s Governance Committee.

William
P. Weber served in various capacities with Texas Instruments
Incorporated, a semiconductor manufacturing company, and its subsidiaries from
1962 until April 1998.  From December
1986 until December 1993, he served as the President of Texas Instruments’
worldwide semiconductor operations and from December 1993 until his retirement
in April 1998, he served as Vice Chairman of Texas Instruments
Incorporated.  He has served on the
Company’s Board of Directors since July 1998. 
Mr. Weber holds a BS in Engineering from Lamar University and a MS in
Engineering from Southern Methodist University.

There is no family
relationship between any director or executive officer of the Company.


 10 



   


 

Item 1A.  Risk
Factors

In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this
Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results
or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward- looking
statements made by or on behalf of the Company.

We
have experienced dramatic declines in average selling prices for our
semiconductor memory products which have adversely affected our business.

Per megabit average
selling prices for our semiconductor memory products decreased 34% in 2006 as
compared to 2005.  In recent years, we
have also experienced annual decreases in per megabit average selling prices for
our memory products including:  24% in
2005, 17% in 2003, 53% in 2002 and 60% in 2001. 
At times, average selling prices for our memory products have been below
our costs.  If average selling prices for
our memory products decrease faster than we can decrease per megabit costs, our
business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially
adversely affected.

Increased
worldwide semiconductor memory production or lack of demand for semiconductor
memory could lead to further declines in average selling prices.

The transitions to
smaller line-width process technologies and 300mm wafers in the industry have
resulted in significant increases in the worldwide supply of semiconductor
memory and will likely lead to future increases.  Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor
memory also result from semiconductor memory fab capacity expansions, either by
way of new facilities, increased capacity utilization or reallocation of other
semiconductor production to semiconductor memory production.  We and several of our competitors have
announced plans to increase production through construction of new facilities
or expansion of existing facilities. 
Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory, if not
accompanied with commensurate increases in demand, would lead to further
declines in average selling prices for our products and would materially
adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.

We
may be unable to reduce our per megabit manufacturing costs at the same rate as
we have in the past.

Historically, our
gross margin has benefited from decreases in per unit manufacturing costs
achieved through improvements in our manufacturing processes, including
reducing the die size of our existing products. 
In future periods, we may be unable to reduce our per unit manufacturing
costs or reduce these costs at historical rates due to strategic product
diversification decisions affecting product mix, the ever increasing complexity
of manufacturing processes, changes in process technologies or products which
inherently may require relatively larger die sizes.  Per unit manufacturing costs may also be
affected by the relatively smaller production quantities and shorter product
lifecycles of Imaging and certain specialty memory products.

Our
formation of IMFT and the resulting plans to significantly increase our NAND
Flash memory production has numerous risks.

On January 6, 2006, we
initiated operations of the IMFT joint venture with Intel and as a result we
plan to significantly increase our NAND Flash production in future
periods.  The IMFT agreement and our NAND
Flash strategy in general require substantial investment in capital
expenditures for equipment and new facilities. 
It also requires significant investments in research and development as
well as investments to grow and develop new operations at multiple sites.  These investments involve numerous
risks.  We are required to devote a
significant portion of our existing semiconductor manufacturing capacity to the
production of NAND Flash instead of the Company’s other products.  In conjunction with the IMFT agreement, we
entered into a contract with Apple Corporation to provide NAND Flash products
for an extended period of time at contractually determined prices.  We currently have a relatively small share of
the world-wide market for NAND Flash.

Our NAND Flash
investments and commitments involve numerous risks, and may include the
following:

·                  increasing our exposure to changes in
average selling prices for NAND Flash;

·                  difficulties in establishing new
production operations at multiple locations;

·                  increasing capital expenditures to
increase production capacity and modify existing processes to produce NAND
Flash;

·                  increasing debt to finance future
investments;


 11 



   


 

·                  diverting management’s attention from
DRAM and CMOS Image sensor operations;

·                  managing larger operations and
facilities and employees in separate geographic areas; and

·                  hiring and retaining key employees.

Our NAND Flash
strategy may not be successful and could materially adversely affect our
business, results of operations or financial condition.

The
future success of our Imaging business will be dependent on continued market
acceptance of our products and the development, introduction and marketing of
new Imaging products.

Our Imaging business has
grown rapidly in the recent periods. 
Sales of Imaging products increased substantially and represented 14% of
our net sales in 2006.  Our imaging
products have higher gross margins than the recent overall gross margins from
our memory products.  As we continue to
expand our imaging business, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
maintain these growth rates or gross margins. 
The continued success of our Imaging products will depend on a number of
factors, including:

·                  development of products that maintain
a technological advantage over the products of our competitors;

·                  accurate prediction of market
requirements and evolving standards, including pixel resolution, output
interface standards, power requirements, optical lens size, input standards and
other requirements;

·                  timely completion and introduction of
new Imaging products that satisfy customer requirements;

·                  timely achievement of design wins
with prospective customers, as manufacturers may be reluctant to change their
source of components due to the significant costs, time, effort and risk
associated with qualifying a new supplier; and

·                  efficient, cost-effective
manufacturing as we transition to new products and higher volumes.

We
may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and
make adequate capital investments.

Our cash flows from
operations depend primarily on the volume of semiconductor memory and CMOS
image sensors sold, average selling prices and per unit manufacturing
costs.  To develop new product and
process technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and
maintain product quality, we must make significant capital investments in
manufacturing technology, facilities and capital equipment, research and
development, and product and process technology.  Cash and investments of IMFT and TECH are
generally not available to finance our other operations.  In addition to cash provided by operations,
we have from time to time utilized external sources of financing.  Depending on general market and economic
conditions or other factors, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash
flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments.

The
semiconductor industry is highly competitive.

We face intense
competition in the semiconductor memory market from a number of companies,
including Elpida Memory, Inc.; Hynix Semiconductor Inc.; Qimonda AG ADS;
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.; SanDisk Corporation; Toshiba Corporation and
from emerging companies in Taiwan and China, who have announced plans to
significantly expand the scale of their operations.  Some of our competitors are large
corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to withstand
downturns in the semiconductor markets in which we compete, invest in technology
and capitalize on growth opportunities. 
Our competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields,
reduce die size and minimize mask levels in their product designs.  These factors have significantly increased
worldwide supply and put downward pressure on prices.


 12 



   


 

We face
competition in the image sensor market from a number of suppliers of CMOS image
sensors including MagnaChip Semiconductor Ltd.; OmniVision Technologies, Inc.;
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd; Sony Corporation; STMicroelectronics NV; Toshiba
Corporation and from a number of suppliers of CCD image sensors Matsushita
Electric Industrial Co., Ltd.; Sharp Corporation and Sony Corporation.  In recent periods, a number of new companies
have entered the CMOS image sensor market. 
Competitors include many large domestic and international companies that
have greater presence in key markets, better access to certain customer bases,
greater name recognition and more established strategic and financial
relationships than the Company.

We
may have difficulty integrating the operations of Lexar.

If we are unable
to successfully combine and integrate the Lexar operations, we may not be able
to realize many of the anticipated benefits of the merger, which could harm our
results of operations.  In order to
realize the benefits of the merger, we will need to timely integrate the
technology, operations, and personnel of Lexar. 
Integrating the two companies will be a complex, time-consuming and
expensive process that, even with proper planning and implementation, could
significantly disrupt the businesses of Micron and Lexar.  The challenges involved in this integration
include, combining product and service offerings, optimizing inventory
management over a broader distribution chain, and preserving customer, supplier
and other important relationships of both Micron and Lexar.  If we are not able to successfully integrate
our operations with those of Lexar, our results of operations could be
materially adversely affected.

Our
internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected by
material weaknesses in Lexar’s internal controls.

In Lexar’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005, and its Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2006, Lexar reported
material weaknesses with respect to its revenue recognition controls and
inventory accounting controls.  These
control deficiencies resulted in audit adjustments to revenues, accounts
receivable, cost of product revenues, deferred revenue, sales related accruals
and inventory in Lexar’s 2005 consolidated financial statements.  As a result of these material weaknesses,
Lexar concluded in its Annual Report and Quarterly Report that its control over
financial reporting was not effective as of the end of the periods covered by
the reports.  While prior to the close of
the merger Lexar continued to take steps to remediate these material
weaknesses, there can be no assurance that we will be able to completely
remediate these material weaknesses such that we will be able to conclude that
our internal control over financial reporting is effective.  We began consolidating the financial results
of Lexar on June 22, 2006; however, due to the recency of the acquisition, the internal
control over financial reporting relating to Lexar was exempt from testing and
evaluation as of August 31, 2006.  To the
extent we do not remediate the material weaknesses, the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting may be adversely affected.

Our
net operating loss carryforwards may be limited as a result of the merger.

Micron and Lexar
had net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes prior to
the merger and both entities had provided significant valuation allowances
against the tax benefit of such losses as well as certain tax credit
carryforwards.  Utilization of these net
operating losses and credit carryforwards are dependent upon us achieving
profitable results following the Lexar merger. 
As a consequence of the merger, as well as earlier issuances of common
stock consummated by both companies and business combinations by the Company,
utilization of the tax benefits of these carryforwards are subject to
limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.  The determination of the limitations is
complex and requires significant judgment and analysis of past
transactions.  Accordingly, some portion
or all of these carryforwards may not be available to offset any future taxable
income.

Our resellers receive
price protections which may have an adverse affect on our gross margins.

Nearly all of our Lexar
sales are made through resellers which traditionally have been provided price
protection.  In an environment of slower
demand and abundant supply of products, price declines and channel promotions
expenses are more likely to occur. 
Further, in this environment, high channel inventory may result in
substantial price protection charges. 
These price protection charges have the effect of reducing gross sales
and gross margin.  We expect to continue
to incur price protection charges for the foreseeable future due to competitive
pricing pressures and, as a result, our revenues and gross margins could be
adversely affected.


 13 



   


 

Changes in foreign
currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, results
of operations or financial condition.

Our financial statements
are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are reported in U.S.
dollars.  Across our multi-national
operations, there are transactions and balances denominated in other
currencies, primarily the yen and euro.  The Company estimates that, based on its
assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar as of
August 31, 2006, a 1% change in the exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar would
result in foreign currency gains or losses of approximately $1 million for the
yen and $1 million for the euro. 
In the event that the U.S. dollar weakens significantly compared to the
yen or euro, our results of operations or financial condition will be adversely
affected.

New
product development may be unsuccessful.

We are developing new
products that complement our traditional memory products or leverage their
underlying design or process technology. 
We have made significant investments in product and process technologies
and anticipate expending significant resources for new semiconductor product
development over the next several years. 
The process to develop NAND Flash, Imaging and certain specialty memory
products requires us to demonstrate advanced functionality and performance,
many times well in advance of a planned ramp of production, in order to secure
design wins with our customers.  There
can be no assurance that our product development efforts will be successful,
that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture these new products, that
we will be able to successfully market these products or that margins generated
from sales of these products will recover costs of development efforts.

An adverse determination
that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property
rights of others could materially adversely affect our business, results of
operations or financial condition.

As is typical in
the semiconductor and other high technology industries, from time to time,
others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our products or
manufacturing processes infringe their intellectual property rights.  In this regard, we are engaged in litigation
with Rambus, Inc. (“Rambus”) relating to certain of Rambus’ patents and certain
of our claims and defenses.  On August
28, 2000, we filed a complaint (subsequently amended) against Rambus in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware seeking monetary damages and
declaratory and injunctive relief.  Among
other things, our amended complaint alleges violation of federal antitrust
laws, breach of contract, fraud, deceptive trade practices, and negligent
misrepresentation.  The complaint also
seeks a declaratory judgment (a) that certain Rambus patents are not infringed
by us, are invalid, and/or are unenforceable, (b) that we have an implied
license to those patents, and (c) that Rambus is estopped from enforcing those
patents against us.  On February 15,
2001, Rambus filed an answer and counterclaim in Delaware denying that we are
entitled to relief, alleging infringement of the eight Rambus patents named in
our declaratory judgment claim, and seeking monetary damages and injunctive
relief.  A number of other suits are
pending in Europe alleging that certain of our SDRAM and DDR SDRAM products
infringe various of Rambus’ country counterparts to its European patent 525
068, including:  on September 1, 2000,
Rambus filed suit against Micron Semiconductor (Deutschland) GmbH in the
District Court of Mannheim, Germany; on September 22, 2000, Rambus filed a
complaint against us and Reptronic (a distributor of our products) in the Court
of First Instance of Paris, France; and on September 29, 2000, we filed suit
against Rambus in the Civil Court of Milan, Italy, alleging invalidity and non-infringement.  In addition, on December 29, 2000, we filed
suit against Rambus in the Civil Court of Avezzano, Italy, alleging invalidity
and non-infringement of the Italian counterpart to European patent 1 004 956.  Additionally, other suits are pending
alleging that certain of our DDR SDRAM products infringe Rambus’ country
counterparts to its European patent 1 022 642, including:  on August 10, 2001, Rambus filed suit against
us and Assitec (an electronics retailer) in the Civil Court of Pavia, Italy;
and on August 14, 2001, Rambus filed suit against Micron Semiconductor
(Deutschland) GmbH in the District Court of Mannheim, Germany.  In the European suits against us, Rambus is
seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief. 
Subsequent to the filing of the various European suits, the European
Patent Office declared Rambus’ 525 068 and 1 004 956 European patents invalid
and revoked the patents.  On January 13,
2006, Rambus filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California alleging infringement of eighteen Rambus
patents.  We also are engaged in
litigation with Tadahiro Ohmi (“Ohmi”). 
On June 2, 2005, Ohmi filed suit against us in the U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Texas (amended on August 31, 2005) alleging
infringement of a single Ohmi patent.  We
are also engaged in litigation with Mosaid Technologies, Inc. (“Mosaid”).  On July 24, 2006, we filed a declaratory
judgment action against Mosaid in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California seeking, among other things, a court determination that
fourteen Mosaid patents are invalid, not enforceable, and/or not
infringed.  On July 26, 2006, Mosaid
filed a lawsuit against us and others in the U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Texas alleging infringement of nine Mosaid patents.  On August 31, 2006, Mosaid filed an amended
complaint adding two additional Mosaid patents. 
On October 23, 2006, the California Court dismissed our declaratory
judgment suit based on lack of jurisdiction.


 14 



   


 

Among other
things, the above lawsuits pertain to certain of our SDRAM, DDR SDRAM, DDR2
SDRAM, RLDRAM, and image sensor products, which account for a significant
portion of our net sales.

  A court determination that our products or
manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others
could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material
changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes.  We are unable to predict the outcome of
assertions of infringement made against us. 
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations or financial condition.

We have a number
of patent and intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require us
to make one time or periodic payments. 
We may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing
license agreements in the future.  We are
unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed
on acceptable terms.

Allegations of
anticompetitive conduct.

On June 17, 2002,
we received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California seeking information regarding an investigation by the
Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) into possible
antitrust violations in the “Dynamic Random Access Memory” or “DRAM”
industry.  We are cooperating fully and
actively with the DOJ in its investigation of the DRAM industry.  Our cooperation is pursuant to the terms of
the DOJ’s Corporate Leniency Policy, which provides that in exchange for our
full, continuing and complete cooperation in the pending investigation, we will
not be subject to prosecution, fines or other penalties from the DOJ.

Subsequent to the
commencement of the DOJ investigation, a number of purported class action
lawsuits have been filed against us and other DRAM suppliers.  Eighteen cases have been filed in various
federal district courts (two of which have been dismissed) asserting claims on
behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that purchased DRAM
directly from various DRAM suppliers during the period from April 1, 1999
through at least June 30, 2002.  All of
the cases have been transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District
of California for consolidated proceedings. 
The complaints allege price-fixing in violation of federal antitrust
laws and seek treble monetary damages, costs, attorneys’ fees, and an
injunction against the allegedly unlawful conduct.  On June 5, 2006, the Court granted plaintiffs’
motion to certify the proposed class of direct purchasers.

Four cases have
been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities
that indirectly purchased DRAM and/or products containing DRAM from various
DRAM suppliers during the time period from April 1, 1999 through at least June
30, 2002.  The complaints allege price
fixing in violation of federal antitrust laws and various state antitrust and
unfair competition laws and seek treble monetary damages, restitution, costs,
interest and attorneys’ fees.  In
addition, at least sixty-two cases have been filed in various state and federal
courts (five of which have been dismissed) asserting claims on behalf of a
purported class of indirect purchasers of DRAM. 
Cases have been filed in the following states:  Arkansas, Arizona, California, Florida,
Hawaii, Iowa, Kansas, Massachusetts, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi,
Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New
Mexico, Nevada, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah,
Vermont, Virginia, Wisconsin, and West Virginia, and also in the District of
Columbia and Puerto Rico.  The complaints
purport to be on behalf of individuals and entities that indirectly purchased
DRAM and/or products containing DRAM in the respective jurisdictions during
various time periods ranging from 1999 through the filing date of the various
complaints.  The complaints allege
violations of various jurisdictions’ antitrust, consumer protection and/or
unfair competition laws relating to the sale and pricing of DRAM products and
seek treble monetary damages, restitution, costs, interest and attorneys’ fees.  A number of these cases have been removed to
federal court and transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California (San Francisco) for consolidated proceedings.

Additionally,
three cases have been filed in the following Canadian courts:  Superior Court, District of Montreal,
Province of Quebec; Ontario Superior Court of Justice, Ontario; and Supreme
Court of British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, British Columbia.  The substantive allegations in these cases
are similar to those asserted in the cases filed in the United States.

In addition,
various states, through their Attorneys General, have filed suit against us and
other DRAM manufacturers.  On July 14,
2006, the following states filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California:  Alaska, Arizona,
Arkansas, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois,
Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, North Carolina, North
Dakota, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Ohio, Oklahoma,
Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah,
Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, and Wisconsin.  The amended complaint, filed September 8,
2006, alleges, among other things, violations of the Sherman Act, Cartwright
Act, and certain other states’ consumer protection and antitrust laws and seeks
damages, and injunctive and other relief. 
Additionally, on July 13, 2006, the


 15 



   


 

State of New York filed a
similar suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York.  That case was subsequently
transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
for pre-trial purposes.

On October 11,
2006, we received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California seeking information regarding an investigation
by the DOJ into possible antitrust violations in the “Static Random Access
Memory” or “SRAM” industry.  We believe
that we are not a target of the investigation and we are cooperating fully and
actively with the DOJ in its investigation of the SRAM industry.

Subsequent to the
issuance of subpoenas to the SRAM industry, a number of purported class action
lawsuits have been filed against us and other SRAM suppliers.  Two cases have been filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California asserting claims on
behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that purchased SRAM
directly from various SRAM suppliers during the period from January 1, 1998
through December 31, 2005.  Additionally,
eight cases have been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California and one in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Tennessee asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of
individuals and entities that indirectly purchased SRAM and/or products
containing SRAM from various SRAM suppliers during the time period from January
1, 1998 through December 31, 2005.  The
complaints allege price fixing in violation of federal antitrust laws and state
antitrust and unfair competition laws and seek treble monetary damages,
restitution, costs, interest and attorneys’ fees.

On May 5, 2004,
Rambus filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California (San
Francisco County) against us and other DRAM suppliers.  The complaint alleges various causes of
action under California state law including conspiracy to restrict output and
fix prices on Rambus DRAM (“RDRAM”), and unfair competition.  The complaint seeks treble damages, punitive
damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and a permanent injunction enjoining the
defendants from the conduct alleged in the complaints.

We are unable to
predict the outcome of these lawsuits and investigations.  The final resolution of these alleged
violations of antitrust laws could result in significant liability and could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or
financial condition.

Allegations
of violations of securities laws.

On February 24,
2006, a putative class action complaint was filed against us and certain of our
officers in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho alleging claims
under Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. 
Four substantially similar complaints subsequently were filed in the
same Court.  The cases purport to be brought
on behalf of a class of purchasers of our stock during the period February 24,
2001 to February 13, 2003.  The five
lawsuits have been consolidated and a consolidated amended class action
complaint was filed on July 24, 2006. 
The complaint generally alleges violations of federal securities laws
based on, among other things, claimed misstatements or omissions regarding
alleged illegal price-fixing conduct. 
The complaint seeks unspecified damages, interest, attorneys’ fees,
costs, and expenses.

In addition, on
March 23, 2006 a shareholder derivative action was filed in the Fourth District
Court for the State of Idaho (Ada County), allegedly on behalf of and for our
benefit, against certain of our current and former officers and directors.  We were also named as a nominal defendant.  The complaint is based on the same allegations
of fact as in the securities class actions filed in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Idaho and alleges breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control,
gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and insider
trading.  The complaint seeks unspecified
damages, restitution, disgorgement of profits, equitable and injunctive relief,
attorneys’ fees, costs, and expenses. 
The complaint is derivative in nature and does not seek monetary damages
from us.  However, we may be required,
throughout the pendency of the action, to advance payment of legal fees and
costs incurred by the defendants.

In March 2006,
following our announcement of a definitive agreement to acquire Lexar Media,
Inc. (“Lexar”) in a stock-for-stock merger, four purported class action
complaints were filed in the Superior Court for the State of California
(Alameda County) on behalf of shareholders of Lexar against Lexar and its
directors.  Two of the complaints also
name us as a defendant.  The complaints
allege that the defendants breached, or aided and abetted the breach of,
fiduciary duties owed to Lexar shareholders by, among other things, engaging in
self-dealing, failing to engage in efforts to obtain the highest price
reasonably available, and failing to properly value Lexar in connection with a
merger transaction between Lexar and us. 
The plaintiffs seek, among other things, injunctive relief preventing,
or an order of rescission reversing, the merger, compensatory damages,
interest, attorneys’ fees, and costs.  On
May 19, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary injunction seeking
to block the merger.  On May 31, 2006,
the Court denied the motion.


 16 



   


 

We are unable to
predict the outcome of these cases.  A
court determination in any of the class actions against us could result in
significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations or financial condition.

Current economic and
political conditions may harm our business.

Global economic conditions and the effects of
military or terrorist actions may cause significant disruptions to worldwide
commerce.  If these disruptions result in
delays or cancellations of customer orders, a decrease in corporate spending on
information technology or our inability to effectively market, manufacture or
ship our products.  Global economic
conditions may also affect consumer demand for devices that incorporate our
products such as mobile phones, personal computers, flash memory cards and USB
devices.  As a result, our business,
results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely
affected.

We
face risks associated with our international sales and operations that could
materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial
condition.

Sales to customers
outside the United States approximated 67% of our consolidated net sales for
2006.  In addition, we have manufacturing
operations in Italy, Japan, Puerto Rico and Singapore.  Our international sales and operations are
subject to a variety of risks, including:

·                  currency
exchange rate fluctuations,

·                  export and
import duties, changes to import and export regulations, and restrictions on
the transfer of funds,

·                  political and
economic instability,

·                  problems with
the transportation or delivery of our products,

·                  issues arising
from cultural or language differences and labor unrest,

·                  longer payment
cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, and

·                  compliance with
trade and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions.

These factors may
materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial
condition.

If
our manufacturing process is disrupted, our business, results of operations or
financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

We manufacture
products using highly complex processes that require technologically advanced
equipment and continuous modification to improve yields and performance.  Difficulties in the manufacturing process or
the effects from a shift in product mix can reduce yields or disrupt production
and may increase our per megabit manufacturing costs.  Additionally, our control over operations at
our IMFT, TECH and MP Mask joint ventures may be limited by our agreements with
our partners.  From time to time,
we have experienced minor disruptions in our manufacturing process as a result
of power outages or equipment failures. 
If production at a fabrication facility is disrupted for any reason,
manufacturing yields may be adversely affected or we may be unable to meet our
customers’ requirements and they may purchase products from other
suppliers.  This could result in a
significant increase in manufacturing costs or loss of revenues or damage to
customer relationships, which could materially adversely affect our business,
results of operations or financial condition.

Disruptions in our supply
of raw materials could materially adversely affect our business, results of
operations or financial condition.

Our operations
require raw materials that meet exacting standards.  We generally have multiple sources of supply
for our raw materials.  However, only a
limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials
that meet our standards.  Various factors
could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers,
photomasks, chemicals, gases, lead frames and molding compound.  Shortages may occur from time to time in the
future.  In addition, disruptions in
transportation lines could delay our receipt of raw materials.  Lead times for the supply of raw materials
have been extended in the past.  If our
supply of raw materials is disrupted or our lead times extended, our business,
results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely
affected.


 17 



   


 

Products that do not meet
specifications or that contain, or are perceived by our customers to contain,
defects or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant
costs on us or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of
operations or financial condition.

Because the design and
production process for semiconductor memory is highly complex, it is possible
that we may produce products that do not comply with customer specifications,
contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end uses.  If, despite design review, quality control
and product qualification procedures, problems with nonconforming, defective or
incompatible products occur after we have shipped such products, we could be
adversely affected in several ways, including the following:

·                  we may replace
product or otherwise compensate customers for costs incurred or damages caused
by defective or incompatible product, and

·                  we may encounter
adverse publicity, which could cause a decrease in sales of our products.

We
expect to make future acquisitions where advisable, which involve numerous
risks.

We expect to make future
acquisitions where we believe it is advisable to enhance shareholder
value.  Acquisitions involve numerous
risks, including:

·                  difficulties in
integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired
companies,

·                  increasing
capital expenditures to upgrade and maintain facilities,

·                  increasing debt
to finance any acquisition,

·                  diverting
management’s attention from normal daily operations,

·                  managing larger
operations and facilities and employees in separate geographic areas, and

·                  hiring
and retaining key employees.

Mergers and
acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and future
acquisitions may not be successful and may materially adversely affect our
business, results of operations or financial condition.

Item 1B