. Risk Factors.")9Patents and LicensesIn recent years, we have been recognized as a leader in per capita and quality of patents issued.  As of September 1, 2011, we owned approximately 17,100 U.S. patents and 3,200 foreign patents.  In addition, we have numerous U.S. and foreign patent applications pending.  Our patents have various terms expiring through 2030.We have a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require us to make one-time or periodic payments.  We may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future.  We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms.In recent years, we have recovered some of our investment in technology through sales or licenses of intellectual property rights to joint venture partners and other third parties.  We are pursuing additional opportunities to recover our investment in intellectual property through additional sales or licenses of intellectual property and potential partnering arrangements.EmployeesAs of September 1, 2011, we had approximately 26,100 employees, of which approximately 15,500 were outside the United States, including approximately 7,600 in Singapore, 3,300 in Italy, 1,700 in China, 1,300 in Israel and 1,000 in Malaysia.  Our employees include approximately 2,800 in our IM Flash joint ventures, primarily located in the United States and Singapore.  Our employment levels can vary depending on market conditions and the level of our production, research and product and process development.  Many of our employees are highly skilled and our continued success depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain such employees.  The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.Environmental ComplianceGovernment regulations impose various environmental controls on raw materials and discharges, emissions and solid wastes from our manufacturing processes.  In 2011, our wholly-owned wafer fabrication facilities continued to conform to the requirements of ISO 14001certification.  To continue certification, we met annual requirements in environmental policy, compliance, planning, management, structure and responsibility, training, communication, document control, operational control, emergency preparedness and response, record keeping and management review.  While we have not experienced any materially adverse effects to our operations from environmental regulations, changes in the regulations could necessitate additional capital expenditures, modification of our operations or other compliance actions.Directors and Executive Officers of the RegistrantOur officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors and our directors are elected annually by our shareholders.  Any directors appointed by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board serve until the next election by the shareholders.  All officers and directors serve until their successors are duly chosen or elected and qualified, except in the case of earlier death, resignation or removal.10As of September 1, 2011, the following executive officers and directors were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.Name Age PositionMark W. Adams 47 Vice President of Worldwide SalesSteven R. Appleton 51 Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerD. Mark Durcan 50 President and Chief Operating OfficerThomas T. Eby 50 Vice President of Embedded SolutionsRonald C. Foster 61 Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial OfficerGlen W. Hawk 49 Vice President of NAND SolutionsRoderic W. Lewis 56 Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryMario Licciardello 69 Vice President of Wireless SolutionsPatrick T. Otte 49 Vice President of Human ResourcesBrian J. Shields 49 Vice President of Worldwide OperationsBrian M. Shirley 42 Vice President of DRAM SolutionsTeruaki Aoki 69 DirectorJames W. Bagley 72 DirectorRobert L. Bailey 54 DirectorPatrick J. Byrne 50 DirectorMercedes Johnson 57 DirectorLawrence N. Mondry 51 DirectorRobert E. Switz 65 DirectorMark W. Adams joined us in June 2006.  From January 2006, until he joined us, Mr. Adams was the Chief Operating Officer of Lexar Media, Inc.  Mr. Adams served as the Vice President of Sales and Marketing for Creative Labs, Inc. from December 2002 to January 2006.  From March 2000 to September 2002, Mr. Adams was the Chief Executive Officer of Coresma, Inc.  Mr. Adams holds a BA in Economics from Boston College and an MBA from Harvard Business School.Steven R. Appleton joined us in February 1983 and has served in various capacities since that time.  Mr. Appleton first became an officer in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions since that time.  From April 1991 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Appleton has served on our Board of Directors.  From September 1994 to June 2007, Mr. Appleton served as our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors.  From June 2007, Mr. Appleton served as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board.  Mr. Appleton holds a BA in Business Management from Boise State University.D. Mark Durcan joined us in June 1984 and has served in various positions since that time.  Mr. Durcan was appointed our Chief Operating Officer in February 2006 and President in June 2007.  Mr. Durcan has been an officer since 1996.  Mr. Durcan holds a BS and MChE in Chemical Engineering from Rice University.Thomas T. Eby joined us in September 2010 and serves as our Vice President of Embedded Solutions. Mr. Eby was with Spansion Inc from October 2005 to September 2010 where he held leading roles in strategy and communications, sales and marketing, and integration. He was also the General Manager of and Excutive Vice President of Spansion's embedded group.  Mr. Eby previously held a variety of positions in sales and marketing and strategy with AMD.  Mr. Eby holds a BS degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University.Ronald C. Foster joined us in April 2008 and is the Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance.  In this position, Mr. Foster has oversight responsibilities of the financial aspects of Micron's worldwide operations.  He was appointed to his current position in 2008 after serving as a member of the Board of Directors from June 2004 to April 2005.  Before joining Micron, Mr. Foster was the chief financial officer of FormFactor, Inc.  He previously served as the Chief Financial Officer for JDS Uniphase, Inc., and Novell, Inc., and has held senior financial management positions at Hewlett-Packard and Applied Materials.  He is currently a member of the Board of Directors of Luxim, Inc.  Mr. Foster holds an MBA from the University of Chicago and a BA in Economics from Whitman College.Glen W. Hawk joined us in May 2010 and serves as our Vice President of NAND Solutions.  Mr. Hawk served as the Vice President and General Manger of the Embedded Business Group for Numonyx from 2008 to May 2010.  Prior to Numonyx, Mr. Hawk served as General Manager of the Flash Product Group for Intel Corporation.  Mr. Hawk holds a BS in Chemical Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley.11Roderic W. Lewis joined us in August 1991 and has served in various capacities since that time.  Mr. Lewis has served as our Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 1996.  Mr. Lewis holds a BA in Economics and Asian Studies from Brigham Young University and a JD from Columbia University School of Law.Mario Licciardello joined us in May 2010 and serves as our Vice President of Wireless Solutions.  Mr. Licciardello served as the Chief Operating Officer for Numonyx since its inception in 2008 through May 2010.  Prior to Numonyx, Mr. Licciardello served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the Flash Memories Group at STMicroelectronics N.V.  Mr. Licciardello holds a BS in Physics from the University of Catania, Italy.Patrick T. Otte joined us in 1987 and has served in various positions of increasing responsibility, including production and operations manager in several of our fabrication facilities and site director for our facility in Manassas, Virginia.  Mr. Otte has served as our Vice President of Human Resources since March 2007.  Mr. Otte holds a BS degree from St. Paul Bible College in Minneapolis, Minnesota.Brian J. Shields joined us in November 1986 and has served in various operational positions with us.  Mr. Shields first became an officer in March 2003 and was Vice President of Wafer Fabrication starting December 2005 and has served as Vice President of Worldwide Operations from June 2010.Brian M. Shirley joined us in August 1992 and has served in various positions since that time.  Mr. Shirley became Vice President of Memory in February 2006 and has served as Vice President of DRAM Solutions from June 2010.  Mr. Shirley holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.Teruaki Aoki has served as President of Sony University since April 2005.  Dr. Aoki has been associated with Sony since 1970 and has held various executive positions, including Senior Executive Vice President and Executive Officer of Sony Corporation as well as President and Chief Operating Officer of Sony Electronics, a U.S. subsidiary.  Dr. Aoki holds a Ph.D. in Material Sciences from Northwestern University as well as a BS in Applied Physics from the University of Tokyo.  He was elected as an IEEE Fellow in 2003 and serves as Advisory Board Member of Kellogg School of Management of Northwestern University.  Dr. Aoki also serves on the board of Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. Dr. Aoki is the Chairman of the Board's Compensation Committee.  He has served on our Board of Directors since 2006.James W. Bagley became the Executive Chairman of Lam Research Corporation ("Lam"), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, in June 2005.  From August 1997 through June 2005, Mr. Bagley served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lam. Mr. Bagley is a member of the Board of Directors of Teradyne, Inc.  He has served on our Board of Directors since June 1997.  Mr. Bagley holds MS and BS degrees in Electrical Engineering from Mississippi State University.Robert L. Bailey was the Chairman of the Board of Directors of PMC-Sierra ("PMC") from 2005 until May 2011 and also served as PMC's Chairman from February 2000 until February 2003.  Mr. Bailey served as a director of PMC since October 1996.  He also served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of PMC from July 1997 until May 2008.  PMC is a leading provider of broadband communication and semiconductor storage solutions for the next-generation Internet.  Mr. Bailey currently serves on the Board of Directors of Entropic Communications.  Mr. Bailey holds a BS degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Bridgeport and an MBA from the University of Dallas.  He has served on our Board of Directors since 2007.Patrick J. Byrne has served as Director, President and Chief Executive Officer of Intermec, Inc. (“Intermec”) since July 2007.  Intermec develops and integrates products, services and technologies that identify, track and manage supply chain assets and information.  Prior to joining Intermec, Mr. Byrne served as a Senior Vice President and President of the Electronic Measurement Group of Agilent Technologies Inc., a bio-analytical and electronic measurement company, from February 2005 to March 2007.  Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Byrne served as Vice President and General Manager for Agilent's Electronic Products and Solutions Group's Wireless Business Unit from September 2001 to February 2005.  He served as Vice President for Agilent's Electronic Products and Solutions Group's Product Generation Units from 1999 to 2001.  Mr. Byrne is also a member of the Board of Directors of Flow International, a manufacturer of ultrahigh-pressure waterjet technology, and a leading provider of robotics and assembly equipment.  Mr. Byrne received his BS degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley, and his MS degree in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.  Mr. Byrne joined our Board of Directors in April 2011.12Mercedes Johnson was the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Avago Technologies Limited, a supplier of analog interface components for communications, industrial and consumer applications, from December 2005 to August 2008.  She also served as the Senior Vice President, Finance, of Lam from June 2004 to January 2005 and as Lam's Chief Financial Officer from May 1997 to May 2004.  Ms. Johnson holds a degree in Accounting from the University of Buenos Aires and currently serves on the Board of Directors for Intersil Corporation and Juniper Networks, Inc.  Ms. Johnson is the Chairman of the Board's Audit Committee and has served on our Board of Directors since 2005.Lawrence N. Mondry was the President and Chief Executive Officer of CSK Auto Corporation ("CSK"), a specialty retailer of automotive aftermarket parts, from August 2007 to July 2008.  Prior to his appointment at CSK, Mr. Mondry served as the Chief Executive Officer of CompUSA Inc. from November 2003 to May 2006.  Mr. Mondry joined CompUSA in 1990.  Mr. Mondry is the Chairman of the Board's Governance Committee and Presiding Director.  He has served on our Board of Directors since 2005.Robert E. Switz was the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ADC Telecommunications, Inc., ("ADC"), a supplier of network infrastructure products and services from August 2003 until December 2010, when Tyco Electronics Ltd. acquired ADC.  Mr. Switz joined ADC in 1994 and throughout his career there held numerous leadership positions.  Mr. Switz holds an MBA from the University of Bridgeport as well as a degree in Marketing/Economics from Quinnipiac University.  Mr. Switz also serves on the Board of Directors for Broadcom Corporation, GT Advanced Technologies and Leap Wireless International, Inc.  He has served on our Board of Directors since 2006.There are no family relationships between any of our directors or executive officers.13ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORSIn addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us.We have experienced dramatic declines in average selling prices for our semiconductor memory products which have adversely affected our business.If average selling prices for our memory products decrease faster than we can decrease per gigabit costs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  We have experienced significant decreases in our average selling prices in recent years as noted in the table below.  In some prior periods, average selling prices for our memory products have been below our manufacturing costs.    DRAM  NAND Flash  (percentage change in average selling prices)      2011 from 2010 (39)%  (17)%2010 from 2009 28 %* (18)%2009 from 2008 (52)%  (56)%2008 from 2007 (51)%  (67)%2007 from 2006 (23)%  (56)%      *  Only increase in DRAM pricing since 2004.     We may be unable to reduce our per gigabit manufacturing costs at the rate average selling prices decline.Our gross margins are dependent upon continuing decreases in per gigabit manufacturing costs achieved through improvements in our manufacturing processes, including reducing the die size of our existing products.  In future periods, we may be unable to reduce our per gigabit manufacturing costs at sufficient levels to improve or maintain gross margins.  Factors that may limit our ability to reduce costs include, but are not limited to, strategic product diversification decisions affecting product mix, the increasing complexity of manufacturing processes, technological barriers and changes in process technologies or products that may require relatively larger die sizes.  Per gigabit manufacturing costs may also be affected by the relatively smaller production quantities and shorter product lifecycles of certain specialty memory products.An adverse outcome relating to allegations of anticompetitive conduct could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.On May 5, 2004, Rambus, Inc. ("Rambus") filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California (San Francisco County) against us and other DRAM suppliers alleging that the defendants harmed Rambus by engaging in concerted and unlawful efforts affecting Rambus DRAM ("RDRAM") by eliminating competition and stifling innovation in the market for computer memory technology and computer memory chips.  Rambus' complaint alleges various causes of action under California state law including, among other things, a conspiracy to restrict output and fix prices, a conspiracy to monopolize, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and unfair competition.  Rambus is seeking a judgment for damages of approximately $3.9 billion, joint and several liability, trebling of damages awarded, punitive damages, a permanent injunction enjoining the defendants from the conduct alleged in the complaint, interest, and attorneys' fees and costs.  Trial began on June 20, 2011, and the case went to the jury on September 21, 2011.  At the time of this filing, a jury verdict is pending.  We cannot predict when a verdict will be reached or when a formal judgment would be entered by the Court subsequent to a verdict.  In the event of an adverse judgment, we would anticipate filing appropriate post-judgment motions and appeals.  We may be required to post a bond or other security to stay enforcement of an adverse judgment pending appeal.  Depending on the amount required, we cannot assure you we would be able to obtain sufficient security to pursue an appeal.  We are unable to predict the outcome of this lawsuit and therefore cannot determine the likelihood of loss nor estimate a range of possible loss.  Accordingly, we have not provided an accrual for an adverse judgment in the September 1, 2011, financial statements.   However, we have accrued a liability and charged operations for estimated costs to successfully defend the matter.  An adverse judgment may have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including liquidity.14On September 24, 2010, Oracle America Inc. ("Oracle"), successor to Sun Microsystems, a DRAM purchaser that opted-out of a direct purchaser class action suit that was settled, filed suit against us in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.  The complaint alleges DRAM price-fixing and other violations of federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws based on purported conduct for the period from August 1, 1998 through at least June 15, 2002.  Oracle is seeking joint and several damages, trebled, as well as restitution, disgorgement, attorneys' fees, costs and injunctive relief.We are unable to predict the outcome of these lawsuits.  An adverse court determination in any of these lawsuits alleging violations of antitrust laws could result in significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.The semiconductor memory industry is highly competitive.We face intense competition in the semiconductor memory market from a number of companies, including Elpida Memory, Inc.; Hynix Semiconductor Inc.; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.; SanDisk Corporation; Spansion Inc. and Toshiba Corporation.  Some of our competitors are large corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to withstand downturns in the semiconductor markets in which we compete, invest in technology and capitalize on growth opportunities.  Our competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, reduce die size and minimize mask levels in their product designs.  The transitions to smaller line-width process technologies and 300mm wafers in the industry have resulted in significant increases in the worldwide supply of semiconductor memory.  Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory also result from semiconductor memory fab capacity expansions, either by way of new facilities, increased capacity utilization or reallocation of other semiconductor production to semiconductor memory production.  Our competitors may increase capital expenditures resulting in future increases in worldwide supply.  Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory, if not accompanied with commensurate increases in demand, would lead to further declines in average selling prices for our products and would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.The downturn in the worldwide economy may harm our business.The downturn in the worldwide economy had an adverse effect on our business.  A continuation or further deterioration of depressed economic conditions could have an even greater adverse effect on our business.  Adverse economic conditions affect demand for devices that incorporate our products, such as personal computers and other computing and networking products, mobile devices, Flash memory cards and USB devices.  Reduced demand for our products could result in continued market oversupply and significant decreases in our average selling prices.  A continuation of current negative conditions in worldwide credit markets would limit our ability to obtain external financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures.  In addition, we may experience losses on our holdings of cash and investments due to failures of financial institutions and other parties.  Difficult economic conditions may also result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivables due to credit defaults.  As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Inotera's liquidity risk may adversely impact our ownership interest and supply agreement.Because of significant market declines in the selling price of DRAM, Inotera incurred net losses of $278 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2011.  Also, Inotera's current liabilities exceeded its current assets by $2.3 billion as of June 30, 2011, which exposes Inotera to liquidity risk.  Further, under generally accepted accounting principles in the Republic of China, Inotera reported a loss for its quarter ended September 30, 2011 of an additional New Taiwan dollars 7,022 million (approximately $241 million U.S. dollars).  Inotera's management has developed plans to improve its liquidity.  If Inotera is unable to adequately improve its liquidity, we may have to impair our $323 million investment in Inotera.  In connection with our ownership equity interest in Inotera, we have rights and obligations to purchase 50% of the wafer production capacity of Inotera.  In 2011, we purchased $641 million of DRAM products from Inotera, and our supply from Inotera accounted for 37% or our DRAM gigabit production in the fourth quarter of 2011.  As a result, if our supply of DRAM from Inotera is impacted, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Our supply agreement with Inotera involves numerous risks.Our supply agreement with Inotera involves numerous risks including the following:•we have experienced difficulties and delays in ramping production at Inotera on our technology and may continue to experience difficulties and delays in the future;•we may experience continued difficulties in transferring technology to Inotera;•costs associated with manufacturing inefficiencies resulting from underutilized capacity;15•difficulties in obtaining high yield and throughput due to differences in Inotera's manufacturing processes from our other fabrication facilities;•uncertainties around the timing and amount of wafer supply we will receive under the supply agreement; and •the cost of our product obtained from Inotera is impacted by Nanya's revenue and back-end manufacturing costs for product obtained from Inotera.The acquisition of our ownership interest in Inotera from Qimonda has been legally challenged by the administrator of the insolvency proceedings for Qimonda.On January 20, 2011, Dr. Michael Jaffé, administrator for Qimonda AG ("Qimonda") insolvency proceedings, filed suit against us and Micron Semiconductor B.V., our Netherlands subsidiary, in the District Court of Munich, Civil Chamber.  The complaint seeks to void under Section 133 of the German Insolvency Act a share purchase agreement between us and Qimonda in fall 2008 pursuant to which we purchased all of Qimonda's shares of Inotera Memories, Inc. and seeks an order requiring us to retransfer the Inotera shares to the Qimonda estate.  The complaint also seeks to terminate under Sections 103 or 133 of the German Insolvency Code a patent cross license between us and Qimonda entered into at the same time as the share purchase agreement.  A hearing is scheduled to begin on November 9, 2011.  We are unable to predict the outcome of this lawsuit.  The final resolution of this lawsuit could result in the loss of the Inotera shares or equivalent monetary damages and the termination of the patent cross license, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition.  Our future success may depend on our ability to develop and produce competitive new memory technologies.Our key semiconductor memory technologies of DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash face technological barriers to continue to meet long-term customer needs.  These barriers include potential limitations on the ability to shrink products in order to reduce costs, meet higher density requirements, and improve power consumption and reliability.  To meet these requirements, we expect that new memory technologies will be developed by the semiconductor memory industry.  Our competitors are working to develop new memory technologies that may offer performance and/or cost advantages to our existing memory technologies and render existing technologies obsolete.  Accordingly, our future success may depend on our ability to develop and produce viable and competitive new memory technologies.  There can be no assurance of the following:•that we will be successful in developing competitive new semiconductor memory technologies;•that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture new products;•that we will be able to successfully market these technologies; and•that margins generated from sales of these products will allow us to recover costs of development efforts.If our efforts to develop new semiconductor memory technologies are unsuccessful, our business results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing necessary to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments.Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on the volume of semiconductor memory sold, average selling prices and per unit manufacturing costs.  To develop new product and process technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain product quality, we must make significant capital investments in manufacturing technology, capital equipment, facilities, research and development, and product and process technology.  We estimate that capital spending for 2012 will be approximately $2 billion.  The actual amounts for 2012 will vary depending on funding participation by joint venture partners and market conditions.  As of September 1, 2011, we had cash and equivalents of $2,160 million, of which $327 million consisted of cash and investments of IM Flash that is generally not available to finance our other operations.  In the past we have utilized external sources of financing when needed.  As a result of the downturn in general economic conditions and the adverse conditions in the credit markets, it may be difficult for us to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows or find other sources of financing to fund our operations, make adequate capital investments to remain competitive in terms of technology development and cost efficiency, or access capital markets.  Our inability to do the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.16Our joint ventures and strategic partnerships involve numerous risks.We have entered into partnering arrangements to manufacture products and develop new manufacturing process technologies and products.  These arrangements include our IM Flash NAND Flash joint ventures with Intel, our Inotera DRAM joint venture with Nanya, our MP Mask joint venture with Photronics, our Transform joint venture with Origin Energy and our CMOS image sensor wafer supply agreement with Aptina.  These joint ventures and strategic partnerships are subject to various risks that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations.  These risks include the following:•our interests could diverge from our partners or we may not be able to agree with partners on ongoing manufacturing and operational activities, or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in our joint venture;•we may experience difficulties in transferring technology to joint ventures;•we may experience difficulties and delays in ramping production at joint ventures;•our control over the operations of our joint ventures is limited;•we may need to recognize our share of losses from Inotera, Aptina or Transform in our future results of operations;•due to financial constraints, our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their commitments to us or our joint ventures and may pose credit risks for our transactions with them;•due to differing business models or long-term business goals, our partners may decide not to join us in capital contributions to our joint ventures, which may result in us increasing our capital contributions to such ventures, resulting in additional cash expenditures by us; for example, our contributions to IM Flash Singapore in 2011 and 2010 totaled $1,580 million and $128 million, respectively, while Intel's contributions totaled $0 and $38 million, respectively;•the terms of our partnering arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable;•cash flows may be inadequate to fund increased capital requirements; and•changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our partners.If our joint ventures and strategic partnerships are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.An adverse determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.On January 13, 2006, Rambus filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Rambus alleges that certain of our DDR2, DDR3, RLDRAM, and RLDRAM II products infringe as many as fourteen Rambus patents and seeks monetary damages, treble damages, and injunctive relief.  The accused products account for a significant portion of our net sales.  On June 2, 2006, we filed an answer and counterclaim against Rambus alleging, among other things, antitrust and fraud claims.  On January 9, 2009, in another lawsuit involving us and Rambus and involving allegations by Rambus of patent infringement against us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, Judge Robinson entered an opinion in favor of us holding that Rambus had engaged in spoliation and that the twelve Rambus patents in the suit were unenforceable against us.  Rambus subsequently appealed the Delaware Court's decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  On May 13, 2011, the Federal Circuit affirmed Judge Robinson's finding of spoliation, but vacated the dismissal sanction and remanded the case to the Delaware District Court for analysis of the remedy based on the Federal Circuit's decision.  The Northern District of California Court stayed a trial of the patent phase of the Northern District of California case upon appeal of the spoliation issue to the Federal Circuit.  (See "Item 1. Legal Proceedings" for additional details on this lawsuit and other Rambus matters pending in the U.S. and Europe.)We are unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against us.  A court determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes.  Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.We have a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require us to make one time or periodic payments.  We may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future.  We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms.17Products that fail to meet specifications, are defective or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us.Products that do not meet specifications or that contain, or are perceived by our customers to contain, defects or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.  In recent periods we have further diversified and expanded our product offerings which could potentially increase the chance that one of our products could fail to meet specifications in a particular application.  If problems with nonconforming, defective or incompatible products occur after we have shipped such products, we could be adversely affected in several ways, including the following:•we may be required to replace product or otherwise compensate customers for costs incurred or damages caused by defective or incompatible product, and•we may encounter adverse publicity, which could cause a decrease in sales of our products.We may make future acquisitions and alliances, which involve numerous risks.Acquisitions and the formation of alliances, such as joint ventures and other partnering arrangements, involve numerous risks including the following:•integrating the operations, technologies and products of acquired or newly formed entities into our operations;•increasing capital expenditures to upgrade and maintain facilities;•increasing debt to finance an acquisition or formation of a new business;•diverting management's attention from normal daily operations;•managing larger or more complex operations and facilities and employees in separate and diverse geographic areas; and•hiring and retaining key employees.Acquisitions of, or alliances with, high-technology companies are inherently risky, and future transactions may not be successful and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.The limited availability of raw materials, supplies or capital equipment could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Our operations require raw materials that meet exacting standards.  We generally have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials.  However, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet our standards.  In some cases, materials are provided by a single supplier.  Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, photoresist, lead frames and molding compound.  Shortages may occur from time to time in the future.  In addition, disruptions in transportation lines could delay our receipt of raw materials.  Lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past.  If our supply of raw materials is disrupted or our lead times extended, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Our operations are dependent on our ability to procure advanced semiconductor equipment that enables the transition to lower cost manufacturing processes.  For certain key types of equipment, including photolithography tools, we are sometimes dependent on a single supplier.  In recent periods we have experienced difficulties in obtaining some equipment on a timely basis due to the supplier's limited capacity.  Our inability to obtain this equipment timely could adversely affect our ability to transition to next generation manufacturing processes and reduce costs.  Delays in obtaining equipment could also impede our ability to ramp production at new facilities and increase our overall costs of the ramp.  If we are unable to obtain advanced semiconductor equipment timely, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.18New product development may be unsuccessful.We are developing new products that complement our traditional memory products or leverage their underlying design or process technology.  We have made significant investments in product and process technologies and anticipate expending significant resources for new semiconductor product development over the next several years.  The process to develop DRAM, NAND Flash, NOR Flash and certain specialty memory products requires us to demonstrate advanced functionality and performance, many times well in advance of a planned ramp of production, in order to secure design wins with our customers.  We cannot assure you that our product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture new products, that we will be able to successfully market these products or that margins generated from sales of these products will allow us to recover costs of development efforts.Our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited.We have a valuation allowance against substantially all U.S. net deferred tax assets.  As of September 1, 2011, our federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards were $2.9 billion, $2.0 billion and $529 million, respectively.  If not utilized, substantially all of our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards will expire in 2022 to 2031 and the foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2015.  As of September 1, 2011, our federal and state tax credit carryforwards were $206 million and $215 million respectively.  If not utilized, substantially all of our federal and state tax credit carryforwards will expire in 2013 to 2031.  As a consequence of prior business acquisitions, utilization of the tax benefits for some of the tax carryforwards is subject to limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and some portion or all of these carryforwards may not be available to offset any future taxable income.  The determination of these tax limitations is complex and requires a significant amount of judgment by us with respect to analysis of past transactions.Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Across our multi-national operations, there are transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (our reporting currency), primarily the Singapore dollar, euro and yen.  We recorded net losses from changes in currency exchange rates of $6 million for  2011 and $23 million for 2010.  To the extent our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar as of September 1, 2011 are not hedged, we estimate that a 1% change in the exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar would expose us to foreign currency gains or losses of approximately U.S. $2 million for the euro and U.S. $1 million for the yen and Singapore dollar.  In the event that the U.S. dollar weakens significantly compared to the Singapore dollar, euro or yen, our results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.We face risks associated with our international sales and operations that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Sales to customers outside the United States approximated 84% of our consolidated net sales for 2011.  In addition, a substantial portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside the United States.  In particular, a significant portion of our manufacturing operations are concentrated in Singapore.  Our international sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks, including:•export and import duties, changes to import and export regulations, and restrictions on the transfer of funds;•compliance with U.S. and international laws involving international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export control laws and similar rules and regulations;•political and economic instability;•problems with the transportation or delivery of our products;•issues arising from cultural or language differences and labor unrest;•longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;•compliance with trade, technical standards and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions;•contractual and regulatory limitations on our ability to maintain flexibility with our staffing levels;•disruptions to our manufacturing operations as a result of actions imposed by foreign governments;•changes in economic policies of foreign governments; and•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations.These factors may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.19If our manufacturing process is disrupted, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.We manufacture products using highly complex processes that require technologically advanced equipment and continuous modification to improve yields and performance.  Difficulties in the manufacturing process or the effects from a shift in product mix can reduce yields or disrupt production and may increase our per gigabit manufacturing costs.  Additionally, our control over operations at our IM Flash, Inotera, MP Mask and Transform joint ventures is limited by our agreements with our partners.  From time to time, we have experienced disruptions in our manufacturing process as a result of power outages, improperly functioning equipment and equipment failures.  If production at a fabrication facility is disrupted for any reason, manufacturing yields may be adversely affected or we may be unable to meet our customers' requirements and they may purchase products from other suppliers.  This could result in a significant increase in manufacturing costs or loss of revenues or damage to customer relationships, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.We may incur additional material restructure charges in future periods.In response to a severe downturn in the semiconductor memory industry and global economic conditions, we implemented restructure initiatives that resulted in net charges of $70 million in 2009 and $33 million in 2008.  We may need to implement further restructure initiatives in future periods.  As a result of these initiatives, we could incur restructure charges, lose production output, lose key personnel and experience disruptions in our operations and difficulties in delivering products timely.Consolidation of industry participants and governmental assistance to some of our competitors may contribute to uncertainty in the semiconductor memory industry and negatively impact our ability to compete.In recent years, supply of memory products has significantly exceeded customer demand resulting in significant declines in average selling prices of DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash products and substantial operating losses by us and our competitors.  The operating losses as well as limited access to sources of financing have led to the deterioration in the financial condition of a number of industry participants.  Some of our competitors may try to enhance their capacity and lower their cost structure through consolidation.  In addition, some governments have provided, or are considering providing, significant financial assistance to some of our competitors.  Consolidation of industry competitors could put us at a competitive disadvantage.ITEM 1B