Item 1A. RISK FACTORS
		
		
			 
		
		
			Current low oil prices may adversely affect the Company’s operations in several ways in the future.
		
		
			 
		
		
			As noted elsewhere in this report, crude oil prices were significantly weaker in 2015 than in prior years.  Oil prices have continued to slide into early 2016.  These low oil prices have adversely affected the company in several ways, and could continue to do so in 2016 as noted below:
		
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			The lower sales value for the Company’s oil production has hurt cash flows and net income.  The current low commodity prices are expected to continue this trend into 2016.
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Lower cash flows have caused the Company to reduce its capital expenditure program, thereby potentially hampering its ability to grow production and add proved reserves.  The Company may be forced to continue to reduce its capital expenditures to balance its cash positions going forward.
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Lower expected future oil prices led to significant impairment expenses in 2015.  Further reductions for future oil prices in 2016 could lead to more impairment charges,  some of which could be significant.
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Low oil prices could lead to reductions in the Company’s proved reserves in 2016.  Low prices could make certain of the Company’s proved reserves uneconomic, which in turn could lead to removal of certain of the Company’s 2015 year-end reported proved oil reserves in future periods.    These reserve reductions could be significant.
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Major credit rating agencies have initiated or completed credit reviews of many oil and gas companies, including Murphy Oil.  The low oil prices have hurt oil companies financial metrics, and the credit rating agencies tend to lower credit ratings during such periods of low commodity prices.  In addition, banks and other suppliers of financing capital may reduce their lending limits to oil companies due to weak oil prices. At December 31, 2015, Murphy’s long-term debt was rated “BBB” with a negative outlook by Standard and Poor’s (S&P), “BBB-” with a negative outlook by Fitch Ratings (Fitch), and “Baa3” with a negative outlook by Moody’s Investor Services (Moody’s).   In February 2016, S&P, Fitch, and Moody’s each downgraded the Company’s credit rating on its outstanding notes.  The Company’s long-term debt ratings are currently “BBB-” with stable outlook by S&P, “BB+” with stable outlook by Fitch, and “B1” with negative outlook by Moody’s.  Fitch’s and Moody’s actions reduced the Company’s credit rating to below investment grade status.  These downgrades could adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise debt in public markets in future periods.  
		
			 
		
		
			Certain of these effects are further discussed in risk factors that follow.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Murphy Oil’s businesses operate in highly competitive environments, which could adversely affect it in many ways, including its profitability, its ability to grow, and its ability to manage its businesses.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Murphy operates in the oil and gas industry and experiences intense competition from other oil and gas companies, which include state-owned foreign oil companies, major integrated oil companies, and independent producers of oil and natural gas.  Virtually all of the state-owned and major integrated oil companies and many of the independent producers that compete with the Company have substantially greater resources than Murphy.  In addition, the oil industry as a whole competes with other industries in supplying energy requirements around the world.  Murphy competes, among other things, for valuable acreage positions, exploration licenses, drilling equipment and human resources.
		
		
			 
		
		
			If Murphy cannot replace its oil and natural gas reserves, it may not be able to sustain or grow its business. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Murphy continually depletes its oil and natural gas reserves as production occurs.  In order to sustain and grow its business, the Company must successfully replace the crude oil and natural gas it produces with additional reserves.  Therefore, it must create and maintain a portfolio of good prospects for future reserves additions and production by obtaining rights to explore for, develop and produce hydrocarbons in promising areas.  In addition, it must find, develop and produce and/or purchase reserves at a competitive cost structure to be successful in the long-term.  Murphy’s ability to operate profitably in the exploration and production segments of its business, therefore, is dependent on its ability to find, develop and produce and/or purchase oil and natural gas reserves at costs that are less than the realized sales price for these products and at costs competitive with competing companies in the industry.
		
		

		
		 

		

			13

		

 
		 
		
		
			Murphy’s proved reserves are based on the professional judgment of its engineers and may be subject to revision.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Proved reserves of crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGL) and natural gas included in this report on pages 
		
		
			F-51 through F-57 have been prepared by qualified Company personnel or qualified independent engineers based 
		
		
			on an unweighted average of crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices in effect at the beginning of each month of the respective year as well as other conditions and information available at the time the estimates were prepared.  Estimation of reserves is a subjective process that involves professional judgment by engineers about volumes to be recovered in future periods from underground oil and natural gas reservoirs.  Estimates of economically recoverable crude oil, NGL and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, and consequently, different engineers could arrive at different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data and using industry accepted engineering practices and scientific methods.  Under existing SEC rules, reported proved reserves must be reasonably certain of recovery in future periods.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Murphy’s actual future oil and natural gas production may vary substantially from its reported quantity of proved reserves due to a number of factors, including:
		
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Oil and natural gas prices which are materially different than prices used to compute proved reserves
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Operating and/or capital costs which are materially different than those assumed to compute proved reserves
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Future reservoir performance which is materially different from models used to compute proved reserves, and
		
			 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Governmental regulations or actions which materially change operations of a field.
		
			 
		
		
			The Company’s proved undeveloped reserves represent significant portions of total proved reserves.  As of December 31, 2015, approximately 28% of the Company’s crude oil proved reserves, 41% of natural gas liquids proved reserves and 54% of natural gas proved reserves are undeveloped.  The ability of the Company to reclassify these undeveloped proved reserves to the proved developed classification is generally dependent on the successful completion of one or more operations, which might include further development drilling, construction of facilities or pipelines, and well workovers.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves as reported on pages F-61 and F-62 should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties.  As required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves are based on an unweighted average of the oil and natural gas prices in effect at the beginning of each month during the year.  Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than those used in the reserves computations.
		
		
			 
		
		
			In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes under GAAP is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital and the risks associated with our business and the crude oil and natural gas business in general.
		
		
			 
		
		
			 
		
		
			Volatility in the global prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas significantly affects the Company’s operating results.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Among the most significant variables affecting the Company’s results of operations are the sales prices for crude oil and natural gas that it produces.  West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil prices averaged about $49 per barrel in 2015, compared to $93 per barrel in 2014 and $98 per barrel in 2013.  The closing price for WTI at the end of 2015 was approximately $37 per barrel.  As demonstrated by the significant decline in WTI crude oil prices in late 2014 and 2015, prices can be quite volatile.  The average NYMEX natural gas sales price was $2.61 per thousand cubic feet (MCF) in 2015, down from $4.34 per MCF in 2014 and $3.73 per MCF in 2013.  The closing price for NYMEX natural gas trades as of December 31, 2015, was $2.34 per MCF.  As demonstrated in 2013 through 2015, the sales prices for crude oil and natural gas can be significantly different in U.S. markets compared to markets in foreign locations.  A small percentage of the Company’s crude oil production is heavy and more sour than WTI quality crude; therefore, this crude oil usually sells at a discount to WTI and other light and sweet crude oils.  In addition, the sales prices for heavy and sour crude oils do not always move in relation to price changes for WTI and lighter/sweeter crude oils.  Certain crude oils produced by the Company, including certain U.S. and Canadian crude 
		
		 

		

			14

		

 
		oils and all crude oil produced in Malaysia, generally price off oil indices other than WTI, and these indices are influenced by different supply and demand forces than those that affect the U.S. WTI prices.  The most common crude oil indices used to price the Company’s crude include Louisiana Light Sweet (LLS), Brent and Malaysian crude oil indices.  Certain natural gas production offshore Sarawak have been sold in recent years at a premium to average North American natural gas prices due to pricing structures built into the sales contracts.  Associated natural gas produced at fields in Block K offshore Sabah are sold at heavily discounted prices compared to North American gas prices as stipulated in the sales contract.  The Company cannot predict how changes in the sales prices of oil and natural gas will affect its results of operations in future periods.  The Company often seeks to hedge a portion of its exposure to the effects of changing prices of crude oil and natural gas by purchasing forwards, swaps and other forms of derivative contracts.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Exploration drilling results can significantly affect the Company’s operating results.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The Company drills exploratory wells each year which subjects its exploration and production operating results to significant exposure to dry holes expense, which may have adverse effects on, and create volatility for, the Company’s results of operations.  In 2015, wildcat wells were primarily drilled offshore Australia, Malaysia and in the Gulf of Mexico.  The Company’s 2016 planned exploratory drilling program includes only commitment wells in Block SK 314A in Malaysia and Blocks 11-21/11 and 15-1/05 in Vietnam.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Potential federal or state regulations could increase the Company’s costs and/or restrict operating methods, which could adversely affect its production levels.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The Company uses a technique known as hydraulic fracturing whereby water, sand and certain chemicals are injected into deep oil and gas bearing reservoirs in North America.  This process creates fractures in the rock formation within the reservoir which enables oil and natural gas to migrate to the wellbore.  The Company primarily uses this technique in the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas and in Western Canada.  This practice is generally regulated by the states, but at times the U.S. has proposed additional regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act.  In June 2011, the State of Texas adopted a law requiring public disclosure of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic fracturing process.  The Provinces of British Columbia and Alberta have also issued regulations related to hydraulic fracturing activities under their jurisdictions.  It is possible that the states, the U.S., Canadian provinces and certain municipalities adopt further laws or regulations which could render the process unlawful, less effective or drive up its costs.  If any such action is taken in the future, the Company’s production levels could be adversely affected or its costs of drilling and completion could be increased.
		
		
			 
		
		
			In April 2015, the U.S. Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) announced proposed broad regulatory changes related to well design, well control, casing, cementing, real-time monitoring, and subsea containment, among other items known broadly as the Well Control Rule.  Final regulations are expected in 2016, with compliance required over the next several years.  Although changes to the proposed rule could be made during the regulatory process, the rule could significantly increase the Company’s future costs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Hydraulic fracturing exposes the Company to operational and regulatory risks and third party claims.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Hydraulic fracturing operations subject the Company to operational risks inherent in the drilling and production of oil and natural gas.  These risks include underground migration or surface spillage due to releases of oil, natural gas, formation water or well fluids, as well as any related surface or ground water contamination, including from petroleum constituents or hydraulic fracturing chemical additives.  Ineffective containment of surface spillage and surface or ground water contamination resulting from hydraulic fracturing operations, including from petroleum constituents or hydraulic fracturing chemical additives, could result in environmental pollution, remediation expenses and third party claims alleging damages, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, hydraulic fracturing requires significant quantities of water.  Any diminished access to water for use in the process could curtail the Company’s operations or otherwise result in operational delays or increased costs.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Capital financing may not always be available to fund Murphy’s activities.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Murphy usually must spend and risk a significant amount of capital to find and develop reserves before revenue is generated from production.  Although most capital needs are funded from operating cash flow, the timing of cash flows from operations and capital funding needs may not always coincide, and the levels of cash flow generated by operations may not fully cover capital funding requirements, especially in periods of low commodity prices such as those experienced in 2015 and early 2016.  Therefore, the Company maintains financing arrangements with lending 
		
		 

		

			15

		

 
		institutions to meet certain funding needs.  The Company must periodically renew these financing arrangements based on foreseeable financing needs or as they expire.  The Company’s primary bank financing facility has a capacity of $2.0 billion and matures in May 2017.  There is the possibility that financing arrangements may not always be available at sufficient levels required to fund the Company’s activities in future periods.  On February 18, 2016, Moody’s Investor Services downgraded the Company’s senior unsecured notes to a “B1” rating, effectively reducing the Company’s credit to below investment grade status.  The ability of the Company to obtain future debt financing may be adversely affected by this credit rating downgrade. Also, in February, Fitch Rating downgraded the Company’s notes to below investment grade.  These downgrades could adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise debt as needed in public markets in future periods.  Additionally, in order to obtain debt financing in future years, the Company may have to provide more security to its lenders.  Additionally, should low oil and gas prices continue in 2016 and 2017, the ability of the Company to renew its revolving credit facility that matures in May 2017 and repay or refinance its $550 million note that matures in December 2017 may be adversely impacted.  The Company has a shelf registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that permits the offer and sale of debt and/or equity securities through October 2018.  Although not considered likely, the Company may not be able in the future to sell notes in the marketplace.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Murphy has limited or virtually no control over several factors that could adversely affect the Company.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The ability of the Company to successfully manage development and operating costs is important because virtually all of the products it sells are energy commodities such as crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, for which the Company has little or no influence on the sales prices or regional and worldwide consumer demand for these products.  Changes in commodity prices also impact the volume of production attributed to the Company under production sharing contracts in Malaysia.  Economic slowdowns, such as those experienced in 2008 and 2009, had a detrimental effect on the worldwide demand for these energy commodities, which effectively led to reduced prices for oil and natural gas for a period of time.  An oversupply of crude oil in 2015 led to a severe decline in worldwide oil prices.  Lower prices for crude oil and natural gas inevitably lead to lower earnings for the Company.  The Company also often experiences pressure on its operating and capital expenditures in periods of strong crude oil and natural gas prices because an increase in exploration and production activities due to high oil and gas sales prices generally leads to higher demand for, and consequently higher costs for, goods and services in the oil and gas industry.  The current low crude oil price environment in 2015 and early 2016 has caused the Company to reduce discretionary drilling programs, which in turn, hurts the Company’s future production levels and future cash flow generated from operations.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Many of the Company’s major oil and natural gas producing properties are operated by others.  Therefore, Murphy does not fully control all activities at certain of its significant revenue generating properties.  During 2015, approximately 15% of the Company’s total production was at fields operated by others, while at December 31, 2015, approximately 22% of the Company’s total proved reserves were at fields operated by others.
		
		
			 
		
		

		
		 

		

			16

		

 
		
		
		
			Murphy’s operations and earnings have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide political developments.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Many governments, including those that are members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), unilaterally intervene at times in the orderly market of crude oil and natural gas produced in their countries through such actions as setting prices, determining rates of production, and controlling who may buy and sell the production.  As of December 31, 2015, approximately 21% of the Company’s proved reserves, as defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, were located in countries other than the U.S. and Canada.  Certain of the reserves held outside these two countries could be considered to have more political risk.  In addition, prices and availability of crude oil, natural gas and refined products could be influenced by political unrest and by various governmental policies to restrict or increase petroleum usage and supply.  Other governmental actions that could affect Murphy’s operations and earnings include expropriation, tax changes, royalty increases, redefinition of international boundaries, preferential and discriminatory awarding of oil and gas leases, restrictions on drilling and/or production, restraints and controls on imports and exports, safety, and relationships between employers and employees.  Governments could also initiate regulations concerning matters such as currency fluctuations, protection and remediation of the environment, and concerns over the possibility of global warming or other climate change being affected by human activity including the production and use of hydrocarbon energy.  Additionally, because of the numerous countries in which the Company operates, certain other risks exist, including the application of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Canada Corruption of Foreign Officials Act, the Malaysia Anti-Corruption Commission Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-corruption compliance statutes.  Because these and other factors too numerous to list are subject to changes caused by governmental and political considerations and are often made in response to changing internal and worldwide economic conditions and to actions of other governments or specific events, it is not practical to attempt to predict the effects of such factors on Murphy’s future operations and earnings.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Murphy’s business is subject to operational hazards, security risks and risks normally associated with the exploration for and production of oil and natural gas.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The Company operates in urban and remote, and often inhospitable, areas around the world.  The occurrence of an event, including but not limited to acts of nature such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and other forms of severe weather, and mechanical equipment failures, industrial accidents, fires, explosions, acts of war, civil unrest, piracy and acts of terrorism could result in the loss of hydrocarbons and associated revenues, environmental pollution or contamination, personal injury, including death, and property damages for which the Company could be deemed to be liable, and which could subject the Company to substantial fines and/or claims for punitive damages.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The location of many of Murphy’s key assets causes the Company to be vulnerable to severe weather, including hurricanes and tropical storms.  A number of significant oil and natural gas fields lie in offshore waters around the world.  Probably the most vulnerable of the Company’s offshore fields are in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, where severe hurricanes and tropical storms have often led to shutdowns and damages.  The U.S. hurricane season runs from June through November.  Although the Company maintains insurance for such risks as described elsewhere in this Form 10-K report, due to policy deductibles and possible coverage limits, weather-related risks are not fully insured.
		
		
			 
		
		
			In addition, the Company has risks associated with cybersecurity attacks.  Although the Company maintains processes and systems to monitor and avoid damages from security threats, there can be no assurance that such processes and systems will successfully avert such security breaches.  A successful  breach could lead to system disruptions, loss of data or unauthorized release of highly sensitive data. This could lead to property or environmental damages and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and costs.
		
		
			 
		
		

		
		 

		

			17

		

 
		
		
		
			Murphy’s insurance may not be adequate to offset costs associated with certain events and there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available in the future on terms that justify its purchase.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Murphy maintains insurance against certain, but not all, hazards that could arise from its operations.  The Company maintains liability insurance sufficient to cover its share of gross insured claim costs up to approximately $700 million per occurrence and in the annual aggregate.  Generally, this insurance covers various types of third party claims related to personal injury, death and property damage, including claims arising from “sudden and accidental” pollution events.  The Company also maintains insurance coverage with an additional limit of $400 million per occurrence ($850 million for Gulf of Mexico operations not related to a named windstorm), all or part of which could be applicable to certain sudden and accidental pollution events.  These policies have deductibles ranging from $10 to $25 million.  The occurrence of an event that is not insured or not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations in the future.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Lawsuits against Murphy and its subsidiaries could adversely affect its operating results.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The Company is involved in numerous lawsuits seeking cash settlements for alleged personal injuries, property damages and other business-related matters.  Certain of these lawsuits will take many years to resolve through court proceedings or negotiated settlements.  None of these lawsuits are considered individually material or aggregate to a material amount in the opinion of management.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The Company is exposed to credit risks associated with sales of certain of its products to third parties.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Although Murphy limits its credit risk by selling its products to numerous entities worldwide, it still, at times, carries substantial credit risk from its customers.  For certain oil and gas properties operated by the Company, other companies which own partial interests may not be able to meet their financial obligation to pay for their share of capital and operating costs as they come due.  The inability of a purchaser of the Company’s oil or natural gas or a partner of the Company to meet their respective payment obligations to the Company could have an adverse effect on Murphy’s future earnings and cash flows.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Murphy’s operations could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency conversion rates.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The Company’s worldwide operational scope exposes it to risks associated with foreign currencies.  Most of the Company’s business is transacted in U.S. dollars, therefore, the Company and most of its subsidiaries are U.S. dollar functional entities for accounting purposes.  However, the Canadian dollar is the functional currency for all Canadian operations and the British pound is the functional currency for most remaining U.K. discontinued operations.  In certain countries, such as Canada, Malaysia and the United Kingdom, significant levels of transactions occur in currencies other than the functional currency.  In Malaysia, such transactions include tax payments, while in Canada, certain crude oil sales are priced in U.S. dollars.  This exposure to currencies other than the functional currency can lead to significant impacts on consolidated financial results.  Exposures associated with current and deferred income tax liability balances in Malaysia are generally not hedged.  A strengthening of the Malaysian ringgit against the U.S. dollar would be expected to lead to currency losses in consolidated operations; gains would be expected if the ringgit weakens versus the dollar.  Foreign exchange exposures between the U.S. dollar and the British pound are not hedged.  The Company would generally expect to incur currency losses when the U.S. dollar strengthens against the British pound and would conversely expect currency gains when the U.S. dollar weakens against the pound.  In Canada, currency risk is often managed by selling forward U.S. dollars to match the collection dates for crude oil sold in that currency.  See Note L in the consolidated financial statements for additional information on derivative contracts.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The costs and funding requirements related to the Company’s retirement plans are affected by several factors.
		
		
			 
		
		
			The costs and funding requirements related to the Company’s retirement plans are affected by several factors.  A number of actuarial assumptions impact funding requirements for the Company’s retirement plans.  The most significant of these assumptions include return on assets, long-term interest rates and mortality.  If the actual results for the plans vary significantly from the actuarial assumptions used, or if laws regulating such retirement plans are changed, Murphy could be required to make more significant funding payments to one or more of its retirement plans in the future and/or it could be required to record a larger liability for future obligations in its Consolidated Balance Sheet.
		
		
			 
		
		
			 
		
		

		
		 

		

			18

		

 
		Item 1B