Item 1A. Risk Factors – Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" of this
Form 10-K. 

General  

 Noble
Energy, Inc. (the "Company" or "Noble Energy") is a Delaware corporation, formed in 1969, that has been publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") since 1980.
Noble Energy is an independent energy company that has been engaged, directly or through its subsidiaries, in the exploration, development, production and marketing of crude oil and natural gas since
1932. In this report, unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or the "Registrant" refers to Noble Energy and its subsidiaries. Exploration activities include
geophysical and geological evaluation and exploratory drilling on properties for which the Company has exploration rights. Noble Energy operates throughout major basins in the United States including
Colorado's Wattenberg field, the Mid-continent region of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, the San Juan basin in New Mexico, the Gulf Coast and the Gulf of Mexico. Noble Energy
also operates internationally, in Equatorial Guinea, the Mediterranean Sea, Ecuador, the North Sea, China, Argentina and Suriname. The Company is noted for its innovative methods of marketing its
international natural gas reserves through projects such as its methanol plant in Equatorial Guinea and its natural gas-to-power project in Ecuador. 

 On
May 16, 2005, Noble Energy completed a merger (the "Patina Merger") with Patina Oil & Gas Corporation ("Patina"). Noble Energy, through its subsidiary Noble Energy
Production, Inc., acquired the common stock of Patina for a total purchase price of approximately $4.9 billion, which was comprised primarily of cash and Noble Energy common stock, plus
liabilities assumed. Patina was an independent energy company engaged in the acquisition and development of crude oil and natural gas properties within the continental United States. Patina's
properties and crude oil and natural gas reserves are principally located in relatively long-lived fields with established production histories. The properties are primarily concentrated
in the Wattenberg field of Colorado's Denver-Julesburg ("D-J") basin, the Mid-continent region of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, and the San Juan basin in New
Mexico. See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 3 – Merger with Patina Oil & Gas Corporation." 


 Throughout
this report, all share and per share data except par value have been adjusted to reflect the effect of the Company's two-for-one stock split, effected
in the form of a stock dividend distributed on September 14, 2005 to shareholders of record as of August 31, 2005. 

Strategy  

 Noble
Energy is a worldwide producer of crude oil and natural gas. The Company's strategy is to achieve growth in earnings and cash flow through the development of a high quality
portfolio of producing assets that is balanced between domestic and international projects. The Patina Merger allowed Noble Energy to achieve a strategic objective of enhancing its U.S. asset
portfolio and has resulted in a company with assets and capabilities that include growing U.S. basins, coupled with a significant portfolio of international properties. After the Patina Merger, Noble
Energy has approximately 36% greater production than 2004 with a reserve base that is balanced between domestic and foreign sources. In addition, the Company has been reducing its investment in the
Gulf of Mexico's conventional shallow shelf and shifting its domestic offshore exploration focus to Gulf of Mexico deepwater areas. Noble Energy is now a larger, more diversified company with greater
opportunities for both domestic and international growth through high upside exploration drilling as well as lower risk exploitation projects. 

3




 

Current Developments  

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Pending Purchase of U.S. Exploration Holdings, Inc. – In February 2006, Noble Energy announced that it
had agreed to purchase U.S. Exploration Holdings, Inc. ("U.S. Exploration"), a privately held corporation located in Billings, Montana, for $411.0 million. The acquisition will expand
Noble Energy's operations in its core Wattenberg field, where the Company currently owns 218,000 net acres. Proved reserves of U.S. Exploration are estimated to be 248 billion cubic feet
equivalent (Bcfe), of which 41% are proved developed and 55% are natural gas. 

 U.S.
Exploration's reserves and production are located on approximately 65,000 net acres in the D-J basin's Wattenberg field. The majority of the acreage operated by U.S.
Exploration lies within the scope of amendments to Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission Rule 318A, which allow for increased density drilling in the field to 20-acre
spacing. U.S. Exploration currently owns interests in 512 active wells. Capital spending on the U.S. Exploration properties will be focused on accelerating production and reserve development. In 2006,
capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $100 million. 

 Subject
to customary conditions, the transaction is scheduled to close on or before March 29, 2006. Upon closing, Noble Energy will pay $411.0 million in cash for the
common stock of U.S. Exploration. Prior to closing, U.S. Exploration will retire all company debt, terminate its commodity hedges and make all severance payments. 

 Noble
Energy has executed hedges on its own production volumes from March 2006 through 2010 that are equivalent to just over 50% of U.S. Exploration's expected volumes. The hedges
are in the form of collars. The average floors on the natural gas hedges and crude oil hedges are $6.23 per MMbtu and $58.74 per Bbl. The average ceilings on the natural gas hedges and crude oil
hedges are $9.17 MMbtu and $72.52 per Bbl. The natural gas hedges are priced at the CIG index and thereby include basis differentials to Henry Hub. 

Crude Oil and Natural Gas Operations  

 For
more information regarding Noble Energy's crude oil and natural gas properties, see "Item 2. Properties – Crude Oil and Natural Gas Properties" of this
Form 10-K. 

Exploration and Development Activities  

North America  

 Noble
Energy has been engaged directly or through its subsidiaries in exploration, exploitation and development activities onshore North America since 1932 and in the Gulf of Mexico
since 1968. The Patina Merger significantly increased the breadth of the Company's onshore operations. The Company's onshore portfolio at December 31, 2005 included 1,267,048 gross developed
acres and 812,750 gross undeveloped acres, of which 642,035 gross developed acres and 500,423 gross undeveloped acres were acquired in the Patina Merger. Onshore production was derived from 10,410
gross wells (7,641 net wells). In the Gulf of Mexico, Noble Energy holds interests in 278 blocks. At December 31, 2005 offshore production was derived from 343 gross wells (188 net wells). 

International  

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Equatorial Guinea – Noble Energy began its investment in the Alba field (34% working interest in one block) offshore
Equatorial Guinea in the early 1990's. Natural gas production from the Alba field is sold to a methanol plant on Bioko Island under a contract that runs through 2026. The methanol plant is owned by
Atlantic Methanol Production Company, LLC ("AMPCO"), in which the Company has a 45% interest. AMPCO markets the methanol in Europe and the U.S. Natural gas production is also sold to a liquid
petroleum gas ("LPG") plant, in which the Company has a 28% interest. Noble Energy's share of condensate produced in the Alba field and from the LPG plant is being sold under a short-term
contract at market-based prices. The Company has entered into an additional natural gas sales contract, which runs through 2023, with an unaffiliated liquefied natural gas ("LNG") plant, which is
currently under 

4




 

construction.
The LNG plant is expected to begin production in 2008. Noble Energy has expanded its activities in Equatorial Guinea with exploration activities in Blocks "O" and "I" (45% and 40%
working interest, respectively) on which it is the technical operator. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Israel – Noble Energy has been operating in the Mediterranean Sea, offshore Israel, since 1998. The Company has a 47%
working interest under an exploration agreement covering three licenses and two leases and is the operator. Natural gas is produced from the Mari-B field, the first offshore natural gas
production facility in the State of Israel. Natural gas sales began in 2004 and have been increasing as a purchaser of the Company's production, the Israel Electric Corporation Limited, developed its
capacity to take natural gas at its Eshkol power station. Additionally, Noble Energy commenced sales of natural gas to the Bazan Oil Refinery located in Ashdod in the fourth quarter of 2005. Noble
Energy has also contracted to sell Mari-B natural gas to other industrial users including a desalinization plant and a paper mill. Sales to these facilities are currently expected to begin
in 2007. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>North Sea – Noble Energy has been engaged in exploration and development of crude oil and natural gas properties in the
North Sea (the Netherlands and the United Kingdom) since 1996. The Company has working interests in 17 licenses with working interests ranging from 6.5% to 100%. Noble Energy is the operator of three
blocks. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Ecuador – Noble Energy has been operating in Ecuador since 1996. The Company is currently utilizing the natural gas
from the Amistad field (offshore Ecuador) to generate electricity through its 100%-owned natural gas-fired power plant, located near the city of Machala. The Machala power plant, which
began operating in 2002, is a single cycle generator with a daily capacity of 130 MW from twin turbines. It is the only natural gas-fired commercial power generator in Ecuador and
currently one of the lowest cost producers of thermal power in the country. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>China – Noble Energy has been engaged in exploration and development activities in China since 1996. The Company
developed the Cheng Dao Xi oil field in Bohai Bay and production began in 2003. Noble Energy's share of crude oil production is sold into the domestic Chinese market pursuant to a
long-term contract at market-based prices. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Argentina – Noble Energy has had a presence in Argentina since 1996 and is currently participating in an expansion of
the El Tordillo field in the San Jorge basin. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Suriname – In 2005, Noble Energy entered into a participation agreement on Block 30 in offshore Suriname, a country
located on the northern coast of South America. A seismic program is currently underway. 


Production Activities  

 Revenues
from sales of crude oil and natural gas and from gathering, marketing and processing have accounted for 90% or more of consolidated revenues for each of the last three fiscal
years. 

 At
December 31, 2005, Noble Energy operated properties accounting for approximately 59% of the Company's total production. Being the operator of a property allows the Company to
manage production and to control timing and amounts of operating expenses and capital expenditures. 


Acquisition and Disposition Activities  

 The
Company maintains an ongoing portfolio optimization program. The Company may engage in acquisitions of additional crude oil or natural gas properties, additional interests in its
existing assets or entities owning crude oil and natural gas properties or related assets. The Company may also divest non-core assets in order to maintain a balanced portfolio with
high-quality, core properties. 

 On
May 16, 2005 Noble Energy completed the Patina Merger. Values preliminarily allocated to proved and unproved properties acquired were $2.6 billion and
$1.1 billion, respectively. Patina's long-lived crude oil and natural gas reserves provide a significant inventory of low-risk opportunities that balance Noble Energy's
portfolio. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price included $874.8 million of goodwill. 

5




 


 During
2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company spent approximately $0.6 million, $85.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively, on the acquisition of proved crude oil and
natural gas properties (excluding Patina properties), and, during 2005, 2004 and 2003, spent approximately $16.9 million, $44.7 million, and $10.2 million, respectively, on
acquisitions of unproved properties (excluding Patina properties). These properties were acquired through various offshore lease sales, domestic onshore lease acquisitions and international concession
negotiations. 

 During
2004, the Company completed a significant asset disposition program that had begun in 2003. The asset disposition program included five domestic property packages, representing
estimated reserves of 24.2 MMBoe. The sales price for the five packages of properties totaled $130 million. 


2006 Budget  

 The
Company has budgeted capital expenditures of approximately $1.26 billion for 2006. Approximately 23% of the 2006 capital budget has been allocated to exploration opportunities
and 77% has been allocated to production, development and other projects. Domestic spending is budgeted for $860 million (68% of the 2006 capital budget), international expenditures are
budgeted for $380 million (30%) and corporate expenditures are budgeted for $20 million (2%). The 2006 budget does not include the impact of possible asset purchases, including the
previously announced pending purchase of U.S. Exploration as well as anticipated development costs associated with U.S. Exploration. 

Marketing Activities  

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Marketing Stranded Gas – With major projects in Equatorial Guinea, Ecuador and Israel, Noble Energy has substantial
natural gas reserves that, until recently, had no market. In Equatorial Guinea, Noble Energy and its partners constructed an LPG plant and a low-cost methanol plant. The recently completed
Phase 2A and 2B expansion projects have increased gross LPG and condensate production. In Ecuador, Noble Energy's Amistad field had no market until the Company constructed a natural
gas-fired power plant near Machala. The Machala power plant is one of the lowest cost thermal power producers in Ecuador. Offshore Israel, Noble Energy discovered natural gas in the
Mari-B field. While Israel has not traditionally been a consumer of natural gas and has no other significant domestic hydrocarbon sources, Noble Energy has negotiated contracts to provide
natural gas to the Israel Electric Corporation Limited, Bazan Oil Refinery and other industrial users. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Natural Gas Marketing – Natural gas produced by the Company in the United States is sold under short-term
or long-term contracts at market-based prices. In Equatorial Guinea and Israel, Noble Energy sells natural gas to end-users under long-term contracts at negotiated
prices. At December 31, 2005, approximately 28% of Noble Energy's natural gas sales were made pursuant to long-term contracts. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Crude Oil and Condensate Marketing – Crude oil and condensate produced by the Company in the United States and foreign
locations is generally sold under short-term contracts at market-based prices adjusted for location and quality. Crude oil and condensate are distributed through pipelines and by trucks or
tankers to gatherers, transportation companies and end-users. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Noble Energy Marketing, Inc. – Noble Energy markets portions of its domestic natural gas production through
Noble Energy Marketing, Inc. ("NEMI"), a wholly-owned subsidiary. NEMI seeks opportunities to enhance the value of the Company's domestic natural gas production by marketing directly to
end-users and aggregating natural gas to be sold to natural gas marketers and pipelines. NEMI also engages in the purchase and sale of third-party crude oil and natural gas production.
Such third-party production may be purchased from non-operators who own working interests in the Company's wells or from other producers' properties in which the Company owns no interest.
Noble Energy has a long-term natural gas sales contract with NEMI, whereby the Company receives an index price for all natural gas sold to NEMI. The contract does not specify scheduled
quantities or delivery points and expires on May 31, 2009. The Company sold approximately 55% of its domestic natural gas production to NEMI in 2005. 

6




 


 <FONT
SIZE=2>Significant Purchasers – Glencore Energy U.K., Ltd. ("Glencore") was the largest single
non-affiliated purchaser of Noble Energy's 2005 production. Glencore was a purchaser of the Company's share of condensate from the Alba field in Equatorial Guinea. Sales to Glencore
accounted for approximately 24% of 2005 crude oil sales, or approximately 11% of 2005 total oil and gas sales and royalties. No other single non-affiliated purchaser accounted for 10% or
more of Noble Energy's 2005 oil and gas sales and royalties. The Company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have a material effect on the Company's financial position or results of
operations since there are numerous potential purchasers of the Company's production. 

Hedging Activities  

 Commodity
prices remained volatile during 2005. Prices for crude oil and natural gas are affected by a variety of factors that are beyond the Company's control. Noble Energy has used
derivative instruments, and expects to do so in the future, to achieve a more predictable cash flow by reducing its exposure to commodity price fluctuations. For additional information, see "Item 1A.
Risk Factors – Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains", "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk", and "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 12 – Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." 

Regulations  

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Governmental Regulation– Exploration for, and production and sale of, crude oil and natural
gas are extensively regulated at the international, national, state and local levels. Crude oil and natural gas development and production activities are subject to various laws and regulations (and
orders of regulatory bodies pursuant thereto) governing a wide variety of matters, including, among others, allowable rates of production, prevention of waste and pollution and protection of the
environment. Laws affecting the crude oil and natural gas industry are under constant review for amendment or expansion and frequently increase the regulatory burden on companies. Noble Energy's
ability to economically produce and sell crude oil and natural gas is affected by a number of legal and regulatory factors, including federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States
and laws and regulations of foreign nations. Many of these governmental bodies have issued rules and regulations that are often difficult and costly to comply with, and that carry substantial
penalties for failure to comply. These laws, regulations and orders may restrict the rate of crude oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise exist in the absence of such laws,
regulations and orders. The regulatory burden on the crude oil and natural gas industry increases its costs of doing business and consequently affects the Company's profitability. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Environmental Matters – As a developer, owner and operator of crude oil and natural gas properties, the Company is
subject to various federal, state, local and foreign country laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment. We must take into account the
cost of complying with environmental regulations in planning, designing, drilling, operating and abandoning wells. In most instances, the regulatory requirements relate to the handling and disposal of
drilling and production waste products, water and air pollution control procedures, and the remediation of petroleum-product contamination. Under state and federal laws, we could be required to remove
or remediate previously disposed wastes, including wastes disposed of or released by us or prior owners or operators in accordance with current laws or otherwise, to suspend or cease operations in
contaminated areas, or to perform remedial well plugging operations or cleanups to prevent future contamination. The Environmental Protection Agency and various state agencies have limited the
disposal options for hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. The owner and operator of a site, and persons that treated, disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances found
at a site, may be liable, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. The Environmental Protection Agency, state
environmental agencies and, in some cases, third parties are authorized to take actions in response to threats to human health or the environment and to seek to recover from responsible classes of
persons the costs of such action. Furthermore, certain wastes generated by our crude oil and natural gas operations that are currently exempt from treatment as hazardous wastes 

7




 


may
in the future be designated as hazardous wastes and, therefore, be subject to considerably more rigorous and costly operating and disposal requirements. See "Item 1A. Risk
Factors – We are subject to various governmental regulations and environmental risks that may cause us to incur substantial costs." 


 Federal
and state occupational safety and health laws require us to organize information about hazardous materials used, released or produced in our operations. Certain portions of this
information must be provided to employees, state and local governmental authorities and local citizens. We are also subject to the requirements and reporting set forth in federal workplace standards. 

 Certain
state or local laws or regulations and common law may impose liabilities in addition to, or restrictions more stringent than, those described herein. 

 The
Company has made and will continue to make expenditures in its efforts to comply with environmental requirements. The Company does not believe that it has, to date, expended material
amounts in connection with such activities or that compliance with such requirements will have a material adverse effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company.
Although such requirements do have a substantial impact upon the energy industry, they do not appear to affect the Company any differently, or to any greater or lesser extent, than other companies in
the industry. 

Insurance  

 The
Company maintains various types of insurance coverages as are customary in the industry that include directors and officers liability, general liability, well control, pollution,
acts of terrorism, physical damage insurance and business interruption insurance for certain international locations. The Company self-insures, is a shareholder in an industry mutual
insurance company and purchases policies from third party insurance providers to cover various risks. The Company believes the coverages and types of insurance are adequate. 

 The
Company self-insures the medical and dental coverage provided to certain of its employees, certain workers' compensation and the first $1.0 million of its general
liability coverage. 

 Liabilities
are accrued for self-insured claims, or when estimated losses exceed coverage limits, and when sufficient information is available to reasonably estimate the
amount of the loss. 

Competition  

 The
crude oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. The Company encounters competition from other crude oil and natural gas companies in all areas of operations, including the
acquisition of seismic and lease rights on crude oil and natural gas properties and for the labor and equipment required for exploration and development of those properties. The Company's competitors
include major integrated crude oil and natural gas companies and numerous independent crude oil and natural gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of the Company's
competitors are
large, well established companies. Such companies may be able to pay more for seismic and lease rights on crude oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid
for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. The Company's ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the
future will be dependent upon its ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors –  We face significant competition
and many of our competitors have resources in excess of our available resources." 


Geographical Data  

The
Company has operations throughout the world and manages its operations by country. Information is grouped into five components that are all primarily in the business of crude oil and natural gas
exploration, development and production: United States, Equatorial Guinea, North Sea, Israel, and Other International, Corporate and Marketing. For more information, see "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data – Note 15 – Geographical Data." 

8






<A
NAME="page_dg1048_1_9">   Employees  

The
total number of employees of the Company increased during the year from 559 at December 31, 2004 to 1,171 at December 31, 2005, primarily due to the Patina Merger. The
2005 year-end employee count includes 108 foreign nationals working as employees of the Company in Equatorial Guinea, the United Kingdom, Ecuador and Israel. 

Available Information  

The
Company's website address is www.nobleenergyinc.com. Available on this website under "Investor Relations – Investor Relations
Menu – SEC Filings," free of charge, are Noble Energy's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and officers and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed
with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). 

Also
posted on the Company's website, and available in print upon request by any stockholder to the Investor Relations Department, are charters for the Company's Audit Committee; Compensation,
Benefits and Stock Option Committee; Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee; and Environment, Health and Safety Committee. Copies of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the Code of
Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers (the "Codes") are also posted on the Company's website under the "Corporate Governance" section. Within the time period required by the SEC and
the NYSE, as applicable, the Company will post on its website any modifications to the Codes and any waivers applicable to senior officers as defined in the applicable Code, as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley"). 

In
2005, the Company submitted the annual certification of its Chief Executive Officer regarding the Company's compliance with the NYSE's corporate governance listing standards, pursuant to
Section 303A.12(a) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile and a substantial reduction in these prices could adversely affect our results and the price of our common
stock.

Our
revenues, operating results and future rate of growth depend highly upon the prices we receive for our crude oil and natural gas production. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas
have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. The markets and prices for crude oil and natural gas depend on factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for
crude oil and natural gas, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: 



•worldwide
and domestic supplies of crude oil and natural gas; •actions
taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; •political
conditions and events (including instability or armed conflict) in crude oil-producing or natural gas-producing regions; •the
level of global crude oil and natural gas inventories; •the
price and level of foreign imports; •the
level of consumer demand; •the
price and availability of alternative fuels; •the
availability of pipeline capacity; •the
availability of crude oil transportation and refining capacity; •weather
conditions; •domestic
and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and •the
overall economic environment. 

9




 





 Significant
declines in crude oil and natural gas prices for an extended period may have the following effects on our business: 



•limiting
our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; •reducing
the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; •causing
us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; •reducing
our revenues, operating income and cash flow; •reducing
the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties; or •limiting
our access to sources of capital, such as equity and long-term debt. 


Failure to fund continued capital expenditures could adversely affect our properties.  


If
revenues substantially decrease as a result of lower crude oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, we may have limited ability to spend the capital necessary to replace our reserves or to maintain
production at current levels, resulting in a decrease in production over time. We expect to continue to make capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration and development of crude oil and
natural gas reserves. Historically, we have financed these expenditures primarily with cash flow from operations and proceeds from debt and equity financings. However, if cash flow from operations is
not sufficient to satisfy capital expenditure requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing or other sources of capital to meet these
requirements. If we are not able to fund our capital expenditures, then interests in some properties might be reduced or forfeited. 

We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses and/or assets, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business.  

One
aspect of our business strategy calls for acquisitions of businesses and assets that complement or expand our current business. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to identify
attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive candidates, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to complete the acquisition of them or do so on commercially
acceptable terms. Additionally, if we acquire another business, we could have difficulty integrating its operations, systems, management and other personnel and technology with our own. These
difficulties could disrupt ongoing business, distract management and employees, increase expenses and adversely affect results of operations. Even if these difficulties could be overcome, we cannot
provide assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition would be realized. 

Estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves are not precise.  

There
are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their value, including many factors that are beyond our control. Reservoir engineering is a subjective
process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The estimates depend on a number of factors and assumptions that may vary
considerably from actual results, including: 



•historical
production from the area compared with production from other areas; •the
assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; •assumptions
concerning future crude oil and natural gas prices; •future
operating costs; •severance
and excise taxes; •development
costs; and •workover
and remedial costs. 


For
these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those reserves based on risk
of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected from them prepared by different engineers or by the 

10




 


same
engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to upward or downward adjustment, and actual production, revenue and expenditures with
respect to our reserves likely will vary, possibly materially, from estimates. 

Additionally,
because most of our reserve estimates are calculated using volumetric analysis, those estimates are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Volumetric
analysis involves estimating the volume of a reservoir based on the net feet of pay of the structure and an
estimation of the area covered by the structure. In addition, realization or recognition of proved undeveloped reserves will depend on our development schedule and plans. Lack of certainty with
respect to development plans for proved undeveloped reserves could cause the discontinuation of the classification of these reserves as proved. 

Exploration, development and production risks and natural disasters could result in liability exposure or the loss of production and revenues.  

Our
operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in the drilling, production and transportation of crude oil and natural gas, including: 



•pipeline
ruptures and spills; •fires; •explosions,
blowouts and cratering; •formations
with abnormal pressures; •equipment
malfunctions; •hurricanes;
and •other
natural disasters. 


Any
of these can result in loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution and other damage to our properties or the properties of others. 

Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves.  

We
do not always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our drilling operations. The wells we drill or participate in may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of
our investment in those wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that crude oil or natural gas is present or may be produced
economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill
dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or
canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: 



•unexpected
drilling conditions; •title
problems; •pressure
or irregularities in formations; •equipment
failures or accidents; •adverse
weather conditions; •compliance
with environmental and other governmental requirements; and •increases
in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and equipment. 



The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and other oil field services could adversely affect our ability to
execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget.  

Our
industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs of rigs, equipment and supplies are
substantially 

11




 


greater
and their availability may be limited. As a result of increasing levels of exploration and production in response to strong prices of crude oil and natural gas, the demand for oilfield
services has risen and the costs of these services are increasing, while the quality of these services may suffer. Additionally, these services may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. 

We may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks we face, which could result in significant financial exposure.  


 As
protection against operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses, including the loss of wells, blowouts, pipeline leakage or other
damage, certain costs of pollution control and physical damages on certain assets. Our insurance coverage includes crude oil and natural gas properties and construction insurance, marine cargo
insurance and third party and comprehensive general liability insurance. Except for our operations in Israel and Equatorial Guinea, we do not carry business interruption insurance. 

 We
may not have sufficient coverage for some of the risks we face, either because insurance is not available on commercially reasonable terms or because of single event limitations by
our insurer. If an event occurs that is not covered, or not fully covered, by insurance, it could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we cannot fully
insure against pollution and environmental risks. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>We face significant competition and many of our competitors have resources in excess of our available resources.

 We
operate in the highly competitive areas of crude oil and natural gas exploration, exploitation, acquisition and production. We face intense competition from a large number of
independent, technology-driven companies as well as both major and other independent crude oil and natural gas companies in a number of areas such as: 



•seeking
to acquire desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; •marketing
our crude oil and natural gas production; and •seeking
to acquire the equipment and expertise necessary to operate and develop properties. 


 Many
of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially in excess of those available to us. This highly competitive environment could have an adverse impact on our
business. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>We are subject to various governmental regulations and environmental risks that may cause us to incur substantial costs.

 From
time to time, in varying degrees, political developments and federal and state laws and regulations affect our operations. In particular, price controls, taxes and other laws
relating to the crude oil and natural gas industry, changes in these laws and changes in administrative regulations have affected and in the future could affect crude oil and natural gas production,
operations and economics. We cannot predict how agencies or courts will interpret existing laws and regulations or the effect of these adoptions and interpretations may have on our business or
financial condition. 

 Our
business is subject to laws and regulations promulgated by international, federal, state and local authorities, relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and
marketing of, crude oil and natural gas, as well as safety matters. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance
with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. 

 Our
operations are subject to complex international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act, as amended, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Clean Water Act. Environmental laws and regulations change frequently, and the
implementation of new, or the modification of existing laws or regulations could harm us. The discharge of natural gas, crude 

12




 


oil,
or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to significant liabilities on our part to the government and third parties and may require us to incur substantial costs of
remediation. 

 <FONT
SIZE=2>Our international operations may be adversely affected by economic and political developments.

 We
have significant international crude oil and natural gas operations. As a result, those operations may be adversely affected by political and economic developments, including war,
terrorism and other instability, expropriation or nationalization, royalty and tax increases, and other laws or policies in these countries, as well as United States policies affecting trade,
taxation, and investment in other countries. 


Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves.  

 Our
exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash
flows from operations, our revolving bank credit facility and debt and equity issuances. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells,
prices of crude oil and natural gas, and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If revenue were to decrease as a result of lower crude oil and natural gas prices or decreased
production, and our access to capital were limited, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to meet our obligations and fund our
capital expenditure budget, we may not be able to access debt, equity or other methods of financing on an economic basis to meet these requirements. 

Our level of indebtedness may limit our financial flexibility.  

 As
of December 31, 2005, we had long-term indebtedness of $2.035 billion, with $1.28 billion drawn under our bank credit facility. Our
long-term indebtedness represented 40% of our total book capitalization at December 31, 2005. 

 Our
level of indebtedness affects our operations in several ways, including the following: 



•a
portion of our cash flows from operating activities must be used to service our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; •we
may be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to similar companies that have less debt; •the
covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness and future indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, pay dividends and
make certain investments and may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; •additional
financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes may have higher costs and more restrictive
covenants; •changes
in the credit ratings of our debt may negatively affect the cost, terms, conditions and availability of future financing, and lower ratings will increase the
interest rate and fees we pay on our revolving credit facility; and •we
may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. 


 We
may incur additional debt in order to fund our exploration and development activities. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations.
Our ability to meet our debt obligations and reduce our level of indebtedness depends on future performance. General economic conditions, crude oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and
other factors will affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our
debt, and future working capital, borrowings and equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. 

13






<A
NAME="page_di1048_1_14">   Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains.  

 In
order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our crude oil and natural gas, we enter into crude oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a
portion of our expected production. Our hedges, consisting of a series of contracts, are limited in duration, usually for periods of one to four years. However, in connection with acquisitions,
sometimes our hedges are for longer periods. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile crude oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains if crude oil and natural
gas prices rise over the price established by the arrangements. In trying to manage our exposure to price risk, we may end up hedging too much or too little, depending upon how our crude oil or
natural gas volumes and our production mix fluctuate in the future. In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which
our production is less than expected; there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; the
counterparties to our future contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or a sudden unexpected event materially impacts crude oil or natural gas prices. We cannot assure you that our hedging
transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in crude oil or natural gas prices. 

Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, Stockholder Rights Plan and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us.  

 Under
our Certificate of Incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue shares of our common or preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. Issuance of these
shares could make it more difficult to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors as more shares would have to be acquired to gain control. We also have a stockholder rights plan,
commonly known as a "poison pill," that entitles our stockholders to acquire additional shares of our company, or a potential acquirer of our company, at a substantial discount from market value in
the event of an attempted takeover without the approval of our Board. Finally, Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of
our outstanding common stock. These provisions may deter hostile takeover attempts that could result in an acquisition of us that would have been financially beneficial to our stockholders. 


Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

 This
annual report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal
securities laws. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. These forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: 



•our
growth strategies; •our
ability to successfully and economically explore for and develop crude oil and natural gas resources; •anticipated
trends in our business; •our
future results of operations; •our
liquidity and ability to finance our exploration and development activities; •market
conditions in the oil and gas industry; •our
ability to make and integrate acquisitions; and •the
impact of governmental regulation. 



 Forward-looking
statements are typically identified by use of terms such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate" and similar words, although some forward-looking statements
may be expressed differently. These forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current plans, expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us
and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied
in the forward- 

14




 

looking
statements. You should consider carefully the statements under Item 1A. Risk Factors and other sections of this report, which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ
from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. 

Item 1B