.Risk FactorsIf any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.  In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.Risks Related to Our BusinessIf our efforts to attract and retain members are not successful, our business will be adversely affected.We have experienced significant member growth over the past several years.  Our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with a valuable and quality experience for selecting and viewing TV shows and movies.  Furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain members.  Competitors include multichannel video programming distributors providing free on demand content through authenticated Internet applications, Internet-based movie and TV content providers, including both those that provide legal and illegal (or pirated) entertainment video content, DVD rental outlets and kiosk services and entertainment video retail stores.  If consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, or if we introduce new or adjust existing features or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain members.  In addition, many of our members are rejoining our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members.  If our efforts to satisfy our existing members are not successful, we may not be able to attract members, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected.  Members cancel our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved.  We must continually add new members both to replace members who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current member base.  If too many of our members cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new members in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected.  If we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing members and attracting new members, our business will be adversely affected.  Further, if excessive numbers of members cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members with new members.If we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected.The market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change.  New technologies and evolving business models for delivery of entertainment video continue to develop at a fast pace.  The growth of Internet-connected devices, including TVs, computers and mobile devices has increased the consumer acceptance of Internet delivery of entertainment video.  Through these new and existing distribution channels, consumers are afforded various means for consuming entertainment video.  The various economic models underlying these differing means of entertainment video delivery include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models.  All of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market.  Several competitors have longer operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition and significant financial, marketing and other resources.  They may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to technology, fulfillment, and marketing.  New entrants may enter the market with unique service offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video and other companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions.  If we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. The long-term and fixed cost nature of our content licenses may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operation.In connection with obtaining streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year licenses with studios and other content providers, the payment terms of which are not tied to member usage or the size of our member base (“fixed cost”) but which may be tied to such factors as titles licensed and/or theatrical exhibition receipts.  Such commitments are included in the Contractual Obligations section of Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  Given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content licenses, if member acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted.  Payment terms for streaming licenses, especially programming that is initially available in the applicable territory on our service (“original programming”) or that is considered output content, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other licensing agreements.  To the extent member and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content licensing commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain licenses.  In addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content licenses may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our 3Table of Contentsbusiness and the market segments in which we operate.  As we expand internationally, we must license content in advance of entering into a new geographical market.  If we license content that is not favorably received by consumers in the applicable territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content licenses, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted.If we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected.We are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, as well as continuing to operate our DVD service within the U.S.  As we expand internationally, we are managing our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and Internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments.  As we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party Internet-based or “cloud” computing services.  If we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations, our business may be adversely affected.  If our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve member satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected.We must continue to build and maintain strong brand identity.  We believe that strong brand identity will be important in attracting and retaining members who have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video.  To build a strong brand we believe we must continue to offer content and service features that our members value and enjoy.  We also believe that these must be coupled with effective consumer communications, such as marketing, customer service and public relations.  If our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected.  Such a result, coupled with the increasingly long-term and fixed cost nature of our content acquisition licenses, may adversely affect our operating results.  With respect to our expansion into international markets, we will also need to establish our brand and to the extent we are not successful, our business in new markets may be adversely impacted.Changes in our member acquisition sources could adversely affect our marketing expenses and member levels may be adversely affected.We utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter, to promote our service to potential new members.  We may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing practices intrusive or damaging to our brand.  If the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected.If companies that currently promote our service decide that we are negatively impacting their business, that they want to compete more directly with our business or enter a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such marketing channels.  We also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership.  If we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affectedWe face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we produce, license and/or distribute through our service.As a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we produce, license and/or distribute.  We also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials and features on our website such as member reviews.  As we expand our original programming, we will become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments.  We will also take on risks associated with the production, such as completion and key talent risk.  To the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, or if we become liable for content we produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer.  Litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations.  We cannot assure that we are indemnified to cover claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims.4Table of ContentsIf studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected.Our ability to provide our members with content they can watch instantly depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute.  The license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary.  If the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase.  Many of the licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly.  Because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice.  As competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase.  As we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content.  We are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner.  Within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service.  If we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our member acquisition and retention may be adversely affected.  Music contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution.  In this regard, we engage in negotiations with performing rights organizations and collection societies (“PROs”) that hold certain rights to music interests when "publicly performed" or “communicated to the public” in connection with streaming content into various territories.  If we are unable to reach mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business.  Additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain PROs and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with PROs, or result in music publishers represented by certain PROs to unilaterally withdraw rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us.  Failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. We rely upon a number of partners to offer instant streaming of content from Netflix to various devices.We currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of Internet-connected devices, including TVs, digital video players, game consoles and mobile devices.  We intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream TV shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time.  If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our streaming content, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted.  Our agreements with our consumer electronics partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service.  Furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than Netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and Netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward Netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business.  In addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices.  If partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted.Any significant disruption in our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations could result in a loss or degradation of service and could adversely impact our business.Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations.  These systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm these systems.  Interruptions in these systems, or with the Internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill DVD selections.  From time to time, we experience service interruptions and have voluntarily provided affected members with a credit during periods of extended outage.  Service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members.Our servers and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions and periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data.  Any attempt by hackers to disrupt our service or otherwise access our systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation.  We have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and to date hackers have not had a material impact on our service 5Table of Contentsor systems however this is no assurance that hackers may not be successful in the future.  Our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access.  Efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems.  Any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of members and adversely affect our business and results of operation.We utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party Web hosting provider.  In addition, we utilize third-party Internet-based or “cloud” computing services in connection with our business operations.  We also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream TV shows and movies in high volume to Netflix members over the Internet.  Problems faced by us or our third-party Web hosting, "cloud" computing, or content delivery network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our members.  We rely upon Amazon Web Services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the Amazon Web Services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted.Amazon Web Services ("AWS") provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service.  We have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by AWS.  Currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on AWS.  Given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted.  While the retail side of Amazon competes with us, we do not believe that Amazon will use the AWS operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service.  If we experience difficulties with the operation and implementation of Open Connect, our single-purpose Netflix content delivery network (“CDN”), our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted.  We have built and deployed a single-purpose Netflix content delivery network that we call Open Connect.  Given our size and growth, we believe it makes economic sense to have our own specialized CDN.  We will continue to work with commercial CDN partners, but we believe that the vast majority of our streaming bits will ultimately be served by Open Connect.  To the extent Internet Service Providers ("ISPs") do not interconnect with Open Connect or if we experience difficulties in operating the Open Connect CDN service, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected.  Failure to implement Open Connect could require us to engage third-party solutions to deliver our content to ISPs, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our operating results.If we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation and merchandising technology or develop user interfaces that maintain or increase member engagement with our service, our business may suffer.Our proprietary recommendation and merchandising technology enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our members.  We also develop, test and implement various user interfaces across multiple devices, in an effort to maintain and increase member engagement with our service.We are continually refining our recommendation and merchandising technology as well as our various user interfaces in an effort to improve the predictive accuracy of our TV show and movie recommendations and the usefulness of and engagement with our service by our members.  We may experience difficulties in implementing refinements or other, third-party recommendation or merchandising technology or interfaces may become more popular with or useful to our members.  In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation technology.If our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements thereto or otherwise improve our user interfaces, our service may be less useful to our members.  Such failures could lead to the following:•our member satisfaction may decrease, members may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected; and•our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected. 6Table of ContentsWe rely heavily on our proprietary technology to stream TV shows and movies and to manage other aspects of our operations, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business.We continually enhance or modify the technology used for our operations.  We cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our members.  Future enhancements and modifications to our technology could consume considerable resources.  If we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the streaming of TV shows and movies to our members in a timely and efficient manner and/or the processing of DVDs among our shipping centers, our ability to retain existing members and to add new members may be impaired.  In addition, if our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to retain existing members and to add new members may be impaired.  Also, any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If government regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses.The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business.  In addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us.  If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model.The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws impacting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business.  For example, in late 2010, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) adopted so-called net neutrality rules intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that transverse their networks.  Recently, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia struck down the FCC’s net neutrality rules and it is currently uncertain how the FCC will respond to this decision.  To the extent network operators attempt to use this ruling to extract fees from us to deliver our traffic or otherwise engage in discriminatory practices, our business could be adversely impacted.  As we expand internationally, government regulation concerning the Internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be nascent or non-existent.  Within such a regulatory environment, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business.Changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business.We rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the Internet.  To the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our member acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted.  Furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of Internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted.Most network operators that provide consumers with access to the Internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming.  As such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success.  For example, Comcast exempted certain of its own Internet video traffic (e.g., Streampix videos to the Xbox 360) from a bandwidth cap that applies to all unaffiliated Internet video traffic (e.g., Netflix videos to the Xbox 360).  While we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted.  In international markets, especially in Latin America, these same incentives apply however, the consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition may not be as strong as in our domestic market.Privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our member data and our disclosure of member data could adversely impact our business and reputation.In the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize data supplied by our members.  We currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information.  Other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the Internet regarding users' browsing and other habits.  Increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws, that limit our ability to use 7Table of Contentscollected data, could have an adverse effect on our business.  In addition, if we were to disclose data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results.  As our business evolves and as we expand internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer information.  Failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses.Our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our member data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons.We maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data.  With respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information.  We take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' data.  Despite these measures, we, or our payment processing services, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data.  In the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become members.  Additionally, we could face legal claims for such a breach.  The costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach.  For these reasons, should an unauthorized intrusion into our members’ data occur, our business could be adversely affected. Increases in payment processing fees, changes to operating rules, the acceptance of new types of payment methods or payment fraud could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our members pay for our membership services predominately using credit and debit cards (together, "payment cards"). Our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees.  From time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result of a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis.  Such increases may adversely affect our results of operations.We are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods.  These rules, regulations and practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply.  If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.We accept payment methods other than payment cards.  As our service continues to evolve and expand internationally, we will likely continue to explore accepting various forms of payment, which may have higher fees and costs than our currently accepted payment methods.  If more consumers utilize higher cost payment methods, our payment costs could increase and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.In addition, we do not obtain signatures from members in connection with their use of payment methods.  To the extent we do not obtain members’ signatures, we may be liable for fraudulent payment transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders.  From time to time, fraudulent payment methods are used to obtain service.  While we do have certain safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some fraudulent transactions.  We do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent payment transactions.  A failure to adequately control fraudulent payment transactions would harm our business and results of operations.If the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video saturates, our business will be adversely affected.The market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video has grown significantly.  Much of the increasing growth can be attributed to the ability of our members to stream TV shows and movies on their TVs, computers and mobile devices.  As we face more competition in our market segment, our rate of growth relative to overall growth in the segment may decline.  Further, a decline in our rate of growth could indicate that the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video is beginning to saturate.  While we believe that this segment will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, if this market segment were to saturate, our business would be adversely affected.If our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected.We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights.  We may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings.  We have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications.  Nevertheless, these 8Table of Contentsapplications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us.  If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected.We currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including Netflix.com.  Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our Web site and our service.  We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights.Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our Web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities.Trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies.  Our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our Web site.  We use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights.  From time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights.  If we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected.  Many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business.  There are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the Internet.  We have not searched patents relative to our technology.  Defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel.  It also may result in our inability to use our current Web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products.  As a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims.  These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us.We are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention.From time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position.  As we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us.Most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend.  Litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position.We could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations.Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from and incremental to those in the U.S.  In addition to the risks that we face in the U.S., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including:•the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content library before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory;•difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations;•management distraction;•political or social unrest and economic instability;•compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials;•difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions;9Table of Contents•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;•less favorable foreign intellectual property laws;•adverse tax consequences such as those related to repatriation of cash from foreign jurisdictions into the United States, non-income related taxes such as value-added tax or other indirect taxes, such as ISS, PIS, COFINS and CIDE in Brazil, changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or the application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities given inter-company transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain;•fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk;•profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds;•differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards;•new and different sources of competition;•low usage and/or penetration of Internet connected consumer electronic devices;•different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; and•availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion.Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our future international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations.We may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders.From time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities.  The decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets.  If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution.We have issued debt offerings and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results.As of December 31, 2013, we had $500 million in 5.375% senior notes.  Risks relating to our long-term indebtedness include:•requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; and•limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable.We plan to obtain approximately $400 million in long term debt in the first quarter of 2014 and it is possible that we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business.  If new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify.We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees.We rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and co-founder Reed Hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees.  In our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations.If memberships to our Domestic DVD segment decline faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected.10Table of ContentsThe number of memberships to our DVD-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. We believe, however, that the domestic DVD business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. The contribution profit generated by our domestic DVD business will help provide capital resources to fund losses arising from our growth internationally.  To the extent that the rate of decline in our DVD-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected.  We do not anticipate increasing resources to our DVD operations and the technology used in its operations will not be meaningfully improved.  To the extent that we experience service interruptions or other degradations in our DVD-by-mail service, members' satisfaction could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in DVD-by-mail member cancellations, which could adversely impact our business.Changes in U.S. Postal rates or operations could adversely impact our operating results and member satisfaction. We rely exclusively on the U.S. Postal Service to deliver DVDs from our shipping centers and to return DVDs to us from our members.  Increases in postage delivery rates, including those resulting from changes to policies on the requirements of first class mail such as size, weight or machinability, could adversely affect our Domestic DVD segment's contribution profit.  If the U.S. Postal Service were to implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our Domestic DVD segment's contribution profit could be adversely affected.Risks Related to Our Stock OwnershipProvisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they:•authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock;•provide for a classified board of directors;•prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent;•establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and•prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders.As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions.  Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction.  Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.In addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our Executive Severance and Retention Incentive Plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction.  Our stock price is volatile.The price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly.  The price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control:•variations in our operating results;•variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community;•announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others;•competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services;•market volatility in general;•the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and•the operating results of our competitors.11Table of ContentsAs a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price.Following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation.  We may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility.  This type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources.Financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results.Given the dynamic nature of our business, the current uncertain economic climate and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, contribution margins, net income and, number of total and paid member additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results.  Such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B