Item 1A of this report.


 



    Competition


 


    Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly
    access to drilling rigs and other services, the acquisition of
    properties and the hiring and retention of technical personnel.
    For a further discussion, please see the information set forth
    under the caption “Competitive industry conditions may
    negatively affect our ability to conduct operations” in
    Item 1A of this report.


 



    Employees


 


    As of March 1, 2006, we had 762 employees. All but 46
    of our employees were located in the U.S. None of our
    employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We
    believe that relationships with our employees are satisfactory.


 



    Regulation


 


    For a discussion of the significant governmental regulations to
    which our business is subject, please see the information set
    forth under the caption “Regulation” in Item 7 of
    this report.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    An investment in our securities involves risks. You should
    carefully consider, in addition to the other information
    contained in this report, the risks described below.


 


    Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and lower prices for
    an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse
    impact on our business.  Our revenues,
    profitability and future growth depend substantially on
    prevailing prices for oil and gas. These prices also affect the
    amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our
    ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount that
    we can borrow under our credit facility is subject to periodic
    redeterminations based in part on changing expectations of
    future prices. In addition, lower prices may reduce the amount
    of oil and gas that we can economically produce.


 


    Among the factors that can cause fluctuations are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas;



 


     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuels;



 


     
        • 

    
    weather conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    the level of consumer demand;



 


     
        • 

    
    the price of foreign imports;



 


     
        • 

    
    world-wide economic conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and



 


     
        • 

    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations.






    
    4



Table of Contents



 


    Our use of oil and gas price hedging contracts involves
    credit risk and may limit future revenues from price increases
    and result in significant fluctuations in our net
    income.  We use hedging transactions with
    respect to a portion of our oil and gas production to achieve
    more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to price
    fluctuations. While the use of hedging transactions limits the
    downside risk of price declines, their use also may limit future
    revenues from price increases. Hedging transactions also involve
    the risk that the counterparty may be unable to satisfy its
    obligations. We follow the provisions of Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” which
    generally requires us to record each hedging transaction as an
    asset or liability measured at its fair value. Each period, we
    must record changes in the fair value of our hedges, which could
    result in significant fluctuations in net income and
    stockholders’ equity from period to period.


 


    Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop
    and acquire oil and gas reserves.  As is
    generally the case, our producing properties in the Gulf of
    Mexico and the onshore Gulf Coast often have high initial
    production rates, followed by steep declines. To maintain
    production levels, we must locate and develop or acquire new oil
    and gas reserves to replace those depleted by production.
    Without successful exploration or acquisition activities, our
    reserves, production and revenues will decline rapidly. We may
    be unable to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at
    an acceptable cost. In addition, substantial capital is required
    to replace and grow reserves. If lower oil and gas prices or
    operating constraints or production difficulties result in our
    cash flow from operations being less than expected or limit our
    ability to borrow under our credit arrangements, we may be
    unable to expend the capital necessary to locate and develop or
    acquire new oil and gas reserves.


 


    Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves and
    future cash flows from those reserves most likely will vary from
    our estimates.  Estimating accumulations of
    oil and gas is complex. The process relies on interpretations of
    available geologic, geophysic, engineering and production data.
    The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The
    process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of
    which are mandated by the SEC, such as oil and gas prices,
    drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and
    availability of funds. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a
    function of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the quality and quantity of available data;



 


     
        • 

    
    the interpretation of that data;



 


     
        • 

    
    the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.





 


    The proved reserve information set forth in this report is based
    on estimates we prepared. Estimates prepared by others might
    differ materially from our estimates.


 


    Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves, future
    production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development
    expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from
    our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect
    the quantities and net present value of our reserves. In
    addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect
    production history, results of exploration and development and
    prevailing oil and gas prices. Our reserves also may be
    susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent properties.


 


    You should not assume that the present value of future net cash
    flows is the current market value of our estimated proved oil
    and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base
    the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved
    reserves on prices and costs in effect at December 31.
    Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower
    than the prices and costs we used.


 


    If oil and gas prices decrease, we may be required to take
    writedowns.  We may be required to writedown
    the carrying value of our oil and gas properties when oil and
    gas prices decrease or if we have substantial downward
    adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our
    estimates of operating or development costs or deterioration in
    our exploration results.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    We capitalize the costs to acquire, find and develop our oil and
    gas properties under the full cost accounting method. The net
    capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed
    the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved
    reserves, using period-end oil and gas prices and a 10% discount
    factor, plus the lower of cost or fair market value for unproved
    properties. If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas
    properties exceed this limit, we must charge the amount of the
    excess to earnings. We review the carrying value of our
    properties quarterly, based on prices in effect (including the
    effect of our hedge positions) as of the end of each quarter or
    as of the time of reporting our results. The carrying value of
    oil and gas properties is computed on a
    country-by-country
    basis. Therefore, while our properties in one country may be
    subject to a writedown, our properties in other countries could
    be unaffected. Once recorded, a writedown of oil and gas
    properties is not reversible at a later date even if oil and gas
    prices increase.


 


    We may not achieve continued production growth from our
    Monument Butte Field.  In August 2004, we
    acquired Inland for approximately $575 million in cash.
    Inland’s primary asset is the
    100,000-acre Monument
    Butte Field located in the Uinta Basin of Northeast Utah.
    Waterflooding, a secondary recovery operation that involves the
    injection of large volumes of water into the oil-producing
    reservoir, is necessary to recover the oil reserves in the
    field. We must negotiate with third parties to obtain additional
    sources of water. The crude oil produced in the Uinta Basin is
    known as “black wax” and has a higher paraffin content
    than crude oil found in most other major North American basins.
    Currently, area refineries have limited capacity to refine this
    type of crude oil. Our ability to significantly increase
    production from the field may be limited by the unavailability
    of sufficient water supplies or refining capacity or both. In
    addition, the price we receive for our production from the field
    could be adversely affected by the availability for refining of
    crude oil from other basins.


 


    Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our
    ability to conduct operations.  Competition in
    the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly with respect
    to access to drilling rigs and other services, the acquisition
    of properties and the hiring and retention of technical
    personnel. Recently, higher commodity prices and stiff
    competition for acquisitions has significantly increased the
    cost of available properties.


 


    We may be subject to risks in connection with
    acquisitions.  The successful acquisition of
    producing properties requires an assessment of several factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    recoverable reserves;



 


     
        • 

    
    future oil and gas prices;



 


     
        • 

    
    operating costs; and



 


     
        • 

    
    potential environmental and other liabilities.





 


    The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In
    connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the
    subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent
    with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing
    or potential problems nor will it permit us to become
    sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their
    deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be
    performed on every platform or well, and structural and
    environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when
    an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified,
    the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective
    contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We
    often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for
    environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an “as
    is” basis.


 


    Drilling is a high-risk activity.  Our
    future success will depend on the success of our drilling
    programs. In addition to the numerous operating risks described
    in more detail below, these activities involve the risk that no
    commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be
    discovered. In addition, we often are uncertain as to the future
    cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells.
    Furthermore, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed
    or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in formations;






    
    6



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;



 


     
        • 

    
    compliance with governmental requirements; and



 


     
        • 

    
    shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the
    delivery of equipment.





 


    The oil and gas business involves many operating risks
    that can cause substantial losses; insurance may not protect us
    against all these risks.  These risks include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    fires;



 


     
        • 

    
    explosions;



 


     
        • 

    
    blow-outs;



 


     
        • 

    
    uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, formation water or drilling
    fluids;



 


     
        • 

    
    natural disasters;



 


     
        • 

    
    pipe or cement failures;



 


     
        • 

    
    casing collapses;



 


     
        • 

    
    embedded oilfield drilling and service tools;



 


     
        • 

    
    abnormally pressured formations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks,
    pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases.





 


    If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses
    as a result of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    injury or loss of life;



 


     
        • 

    
    severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources and
    equipment;



 


     
        • 

    
    pollution and other environmental damage;



 


     
        • 

    
    investigatory and
    clean-up
    responsibilities;



 


     
        • 

    
    regulatory investigation and penalties;



 


     
        • 

    
    suspension of our operations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    repairs to resume operations.





 


    If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct
    operations could be adversely affected.


 


    Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks,
    such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes
    or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause
    substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. Our
    operations in the Gulf of Mexico are dependent upon the
    availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas
    gathering systems and processing facilities. Any significant
    change affecting these infrastructure facilities could
    materially harm our business. We deliver crude oil and natural
    gas through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own.
    These facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to adverse
    weather conditions or may not be available to us in the future.
    As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities or
    reductions in revenue that could reduce or eliminate the funds
    available for our exploration and development programs and
    acquisitions, or result in the loss of properties.


 


    We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these
    potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance
    if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive
    relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and
    environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. As a
    result of the damage caused by hurricanes in 2005, insurance
    coverage for these types of storms may be unavailable or limited.


 


    Exploration in deepwater involves greater operating and
    financial risks than exploration at shallower
    depths.  These risks could result in
    substantial losses. Deepwater drilling and operations require
    the



    
    7



Table of Contents




    application of recently developed technologies and involve a
    higher risk of mechanical failure. We will likely experience
    significantly higher drilling costs in connection with the
    deepwater wells that we drill. In addition, much of the
    deepwater play lacks the physical and oilfield service
    infrastructure present in shallower waters. As a result,
    development of a deepwater discovery may be a lengthy process
    and require substantial capital investment, resulting in
    significant financial and operating risks.


 


    In addition, we may not serve as the operator of significant
    projects in which we invest. As a result, we may have limited
    ability to exercise influence over operations related to these
    projects or their associated costs. Our dependence on the
    operator and other working interest owners for these deepwater
    projects and our limited ability to influence operations and
    associated costs could prevent the realization of our targeted
    returns on capital. The success and timing of drilling and
    exploitation activities on properties operated by others
    therefore depend upon a number of factors that will be largely
    outside of our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the timing and amount of capital expenditures;



 


     
        • 

    
    the availability of suitable offshore drilling rigs, drilling
    equipment, support vessels, production and transportation
    infrastructure and qualified operating personnel;



 


     
        • 

    
    the operator’s expertise and financial resources;



 


     
        • 

    
    approval of other participants in drilling wells; and



 


     
        • 

    
    selection of technology.





 


    We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost,
    manner or feasibility of doing
    business.  Exploration and development and the
    production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive
    federal, state, local and international regulation. We may be
    required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental
    and other governmental regulations. Matters subject to
    regulation include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the amounts and type of substances and materials that may be
    released into the environment;



 


     
        • 

    
    reports and permits concerning exploration, drilling, production
    and other operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    the spacing of wells;



 


     
        • 

    
    unitization and pooling of properties;



 


     
        • 

    
    calculating royalties on oil and gas produced under federal and
    state leases; and



 


     
        • 

    
    taxation.





 


    Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries,
    property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials,
    remediation and
    clean-up
    costs, natural resource damages and other environmental damages.
    We could also be required to install expensive pollution control
    measures or limit or cease activities on lands located within
    wilderness, wetlands or other environmentally or politically
    sensitive areas. Failure to comply with these laws also may
    result in the suspension or termination of our operations and
    subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties as
    well as the imposition of corrective action orders. Moreover,
    these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our
    costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions,
    terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.


 


    We have risks associated with our foreign
    operations.  We currently have international
    activities and we continue to evaluate and pursue new
    opportunities for international expansion in select areas.
    Ownership of property interests and production operations in
    areas outside the United States is subject to the various risks
    inherent in foreign operations. These risks may include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations;



 


     
        • 

    
    loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of
    expropriation, nationalization, war or insurrection;



 


     
        • 

    
    increases in taxes and governmental royalties;






    
    8



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities and
    quasi-governmental agencies;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in laws and policies governing operations of
    foreign-based companies;



 


     
        • 

    
    labor problems; and



 


     
        • 

    
    other uncertainties arising out of foreign government
    sovereignty over our international operations.





 


    Our international operations also may be adversely affected by
    the laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign
    trade, taxation and investment. In addition, if a dispute arises
    with respect to our foreign operations, we may be subject to the
    exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be
    successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of
    the courts of the United States.


 


    Other independent oil and gas companies’ limited
    access to capital may change our exploration and development
    plans.  Many independent oil and gas companies
    have limited access to the capital necessary to finance their
    activities. As a result, some of the other working interest
    owners of our wells may be unwilling or unable to pay their
    share of the costs of projects as they become due. These
    problems could cause us to change, suspend or terminate our
    drilling and development plans with respect to the affected
    project.


 


    Our certificate of incorporation, stockholder rights plan
    and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage an
    acquisition or change of control of our
    company.  Our stockholder rights plan,
    together with certain provisions of our certificate of
    incorporation and bylaws, may make it more difficult to effect a
    change of control of our company, to acquire us or to replace
    incumbent management. These provisions could potentially deprive
    our stockholders of opportunities to sell shares of our common
    stock at above-market prices.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B