Item 1A of
    this report.


 



    “Resource”
    Plays


 


    At year-end 2008 approximately 65% of our proved reserves were
    in “resource” plays. As the traditional producing
    basins in the U.S. have matured, exploration and production
    has shifted to unconventional “resource” plays.
    Resource plays typically cover expansive areas, provide
    multi-year inventories of drilling opportunities and have
    sustainable lower risk growth profiles. The economics of these
    plays have been enhanced by continued advancements in drilling
    and completion technologies. These advancements make resource
    plays resilient to lower commodity prices. Today, we have two
    large resource plays — the Woodford Shale in the
    Arkoma Basin of southeast Oklahoma and Monument Butte in
    northeast Utah.


 


    Woodford Shale.  Our largest single
    investment area over the last three years has been the Woodford
    Shale. Our activities began in this area in 2003. At year-end
    2008, we owned an interest in approximately 165,000 net
    acres. Our average working interest is approximately 60%.
    Since 2003, we have drilled more than 100 vertical wells and 245
    horizontal wells. The Woodford is a shale formation that varies
    in thickness from 100 — 200 feet throughout our
    acreage. Our 2008 production was 65% higher than in 2007 and at
    year-end 2008 was approximately 250 MMcfe/d (gross). Full
    development of the play will require several thousand wells. Our
    development program consists of drilling wells on 40 acre
    spacing and we are drilling an increasing number of horizontal
    wells with longer lateral completions. A long lateral completion
    is defined as a horizontal section in the Woodford up to
    10,000 feet in length. About 80% of our planned wells in
    2009 will be drilled from common surface locations or pads,
    reducing both costs and our impact on the environment.


 


    Monument Butte.  Our largest asset in
    the Rocky Mountains is the Monument Butte oil field, located in
    the Uinta Basin of Utah. The field accounts for approximately
    20% of our year-end 2008 proved reserves and encompasses about
    184,000 gross acres, including nearly 45,500 net acres
    added through two ventures with Ute Energy LLC. Our working
    interest in the field averages 86%. We operate the field and
    control the timing



    
    2



Table of Contents




    and pace of our operations. Since we purchased the Monument
    Butte field in 2004, we have drilled 916 wells and have
    thousands of remaining infill drilling locations. At year-end
    2008, the field had 1,273 productive oil wells and gross daily
    production of more than 16,500 BOPD.


 


    Our activity levels and production growth in the field are set
    in accordance with demand for our black wax crude from refiners
    in the Salt Lake City, Utah area and our ability to obtain
    drilling permits in a timely manner. About half of our Monument
    Butte production at year-end 2008 was being sold under firm
    contracts. Area refiners have added new refining capacity over
    the past months and we expect that demand for our black wax
    crude oil will increase. However, in the current economic and
    capital market environments, there is an increased risk that
    purchasers of our black wax crude production may fail to satisfy
    their obligations to us under those contracts. We are working to
    secure additional long-term agreements with refiners. Please see
    the discussion under “There is limited refining capacity
    for our black wax crude oil, and our ability to sell our current
    production or to increase our production at Monument Butte may
    be limited by the demand for our crude oil production”
    in Item 1A of this report.


 


    Granite Wash.  In addition to the
    Woodford Shale, we are also active in the Granite Wash play
    (also known as Mountain Front Wash), located in the Anadarko
    Basin. We drilled our first horizontal well in the Granite Wash
    in late 2008 and plan several more. We believe that we have
    90-100
    remaining horizontal drilling locations in the Granite Wash. Our
    production in the play reached 130 MMcfe/d (gross) in early
    2009, a record level. Our largest producing field in the play is
    Stiles Ranch, where our working interest is predominately 100%.


 


    Williston Basin.  We have a growing
    position in the Williston Basin and at year-end 2008 had an
    interest in approximately 470,000 net acres. Our drilling
    successes in 2008 increased our net production to approximately
    2,500 BOPD in mid-February 2009. Targeted geologic formations in
    the basin include the Three Forks/Sanish, Bakken, Madison, Red
    River and Duperow.


 


    Green River Basin.  We own interests in
    8,000 gross acres (4,000 net acres) in the Pinedale
    Field, located in Sublette County, Wyoming. We see the potential
    to drill approximately 120 additional locations as field spacing
    is decreased to 20 acres and eventually to 10 acres.
    We operate our activities in Pinedale. We also have an interest
    in the Jonah field, located in Sublette County, Wyoming, where
    we have identified about 35 development locations on 10- and
    5-acre well
    spacing.


 



    Conventional
    Plays


 


    We also have operations in conventional plays in onshore Texas,
    the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Malaysia and China.


 


    Onshore Texas.  We are active in South
    Texas, the Val Verde Basin of West Texas and in East Texas. We
    have a presence in most of the major producing trends in onshore
    Texas and our gross production was approximately
    225 MMcfe/d at year-end 2008. Our drilling program over the
    last several years has focused on the Wilcox, Vicksburg and Frio
    plays in South Texas. In these trends, we have an interest in
    more than 60,000 gross acres primarily in Kenedy, Hidalgo,
    Brooks and Zapata Counties, including two joint ventures with
    ExxonMobil. In East Texas, we have an interest in 36,000 net
    acres.


 


    We have interests in nearly 130,000 gross acres in the Val
    Verde Basin where prospective drilling targets include the
    Canyon, Strawn and Ellenberger formations. Our production from
    the area was approximately 50 MMcfe/d (gross) at year-end
    2008 and our working interests range from 50% to 100%.


 


    Gulf of Mexico.  We remain active in the
    Gulf of Mexico and have growing operations in the deepwater. At
    year-end 2008, our daily production capacity from the Gulf of
    Mexico was approximately 50 MMcfe/d (net), which includes
    about 25 MMcfe/d (net) shut-in due to hurricane repairs. As
    of December 31, 2008, we owned interests in 76 deepwater
    leases (approximately 438,000 gross acres) and 26 leases on
    the shelf.


 


    We have five deepwater field developments underway that are
    expected to provide future production growth. We have an
    inventory of prospects acquired primarily through federal lease
    sales over the last two years. Our deepwater program provides us
    with significant reserve exposure and represents a substantial
    component of our



    
    3



Table of Contents




    ongoing exploration efforts. Our deepwater exploration efforts
    can be classified into two distinct categories —
    prospects near existing infrastructure and those requiring
    stand-alone developments. The prospects located near existing
    infrastructure are generally smaller and lower risk than those
    requiring a stand-alone development. We prefer to operate
    prospects near existing infrastructure with interests ranging
    from 30 — 70%. Stand-alone developments are generally
    in water depths greater than 5,500 feet and have longer
    lead times for development. We often manage our exposure to
    these higher risk prospects by taking a smaller working interest
    or selling down our interest to others who have agreed to pay a
    disproportionate share of drilling costs.


 


    We make selective investments in the shallow water Gulf of
    Mexico to take advantage of our regional expertise and
    3-D seismic
    data base. We have made four discoveries since late 2007 that
    are expected to add to our production volumes in 2009 and 2010.


 


    International.  We are active offshore
    Malaysia and China. Our international production at year-end
    2008 was 17,500 BOPD (net), an increase of 175% over 2007.
    The increase was related primarily to new field developments in
    Malaysia that commenced production in 2008.


 


    Our activities in Malaysia began in 2004 and in early 2009 we
    had production of approximately 43,000 BOPD (gross) from seven
    shallow water oil developments. Our Malaysian concessions
    include a 50% non-operated interest in PM 318
    (435,000 gross acres) and a 60% operated interest in PM 323
    (353,000 gross acres). On PM 318, our Abu field commenced
    production in 2007 and production at year-end 2008 was
    approximately 14,000 BOPD (gross). Our Puteri field commenced
    production in the third quarter of 2008 and has the capacity to
    produce 6,000 — 8,000 BOPD (gross). On PM 323, first
    production commenced from our East Belumut and Chermingat fields
    in the third quarter of 2008 and had gross production of about
    15,000 BOPD at year-end 2008. In 2008, we signed two new
    production sharing contracts on shallow water Block SK 310
    (1.1 million gross acres) and PM 329 (96,000 gross
    acres).


 


    We also have interests in deepwater Block 2C offshore
    Sarawak (1.1 million acres). As of mid-February 2009, we
    were in the process of drilling a high-risk high-potential
    deepwater prospect on Block 2C. This is our second of two
    required commitment wells on this block. We operate the
    exploratory well with a 40% interest.


 


    In Bohai Bay, China, we have production of 1,800 BOPD (net)
    through our outside operated interests. We also have three
    offshore exploration concessions in the South China Sea that
    cover approximately 3.5 million gross acres. We made an oil
    discovery on this acreage in 2008 that will require additional
    drilling to determine its commerciality.


 


    For revenues from and income taxes related to our domestic and
    international operations, see Note 15, “Segment
    Information,” and Note 10, “Income Taxes,” to our
    consolidated financial statements appearing later in this report.


 



    Strategy


 


    The elements of our growth strategy have remained substantially
    unchanged since our founding and consist of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    growing reserves through an active drilling program and select
    acquisitions;




 



     
        • 

    
    focusing on select geographic areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    controlling operations and costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    attracting and retaining a quality workforce through equity
    ownership and other performance-based incentives.





 


    Drilling Program.  The components of our
    drilling program reflect the significant changes in our asset
    base over the last few years. An increasing portion of our
    drilling budget is being allocated to our longer-lived resource
    plays. Due to our capital allocation plans in 2009, the majority
    of our wells will be lower risk development wells in our
    Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions.



    
    4



Table of Contents




    Acquisitions.  Acquisitions have
    consistently been a part of our strategy, particularly when
    entering new geographic regions. Since 2000, we have completed
    four significant acquisitions that led to the establishment of
    focus areas onshore U.S. We will continue to screen for
    value-adding acquisitions.


 


    Geographic Focus.  We believe that our
    long-term success requires extensive knowledge of the geologic
    and operating conditions in the areas where we operate.
    Therefore, we focus our efforts on a limited number of
    geographic areas where we can use our core competencies and have
    a significant influence on operations. Geographic focus also
    allows more efficient use of capital and personnel.


 


    Control of Operations and Costs.  In
    general, we prefer to operate our properties. By controlling
    operations, we can better manage production performance, control
    operating expenses and capital expenditures, consider the
    application of technologies and influence timing. At year-end
    2008, we operated about 80% of our total net production.


 


    Equity Ownership and Incentive
    Compensation.  We want our employees to act
    like owners, so we reward and encourage them through equity
    ownership and performance-based compensation. A significant
    portion of our employees’ compensation is tied to
    profitability. As of February 23, 2009, our employees owned
    or had options to acquire at least 5% of our outstanding common
    stock on a diluted basis.


 



    Our
    Properties and Plans for 2009


 


    Our largest investment regions in 2009 will be the Mid-Continent
    and the Rocky Mountains. Approximately 43% of the budget is
    allocated to the Mid-Continent, 17% to the Rocky Mountains, 18%
    to the Gulf of Mexico, 14% to onshore Texas and 8% to
    international projects. Our most significant investment projects
    are detailed below.


 


    Mid-Continent.  Our activities in the
    Mid-Continent are focused primarily in the Anadarko and Arkoma
    Basins. As of December 31, 2008, we owned a working
    interest in more than 750,000 gross acres and approximately
    2,000 gross producing wells. This region is characterized
    by longer-lived natural gas production. For 2009, we plan to
    invest about $610 million in the Mid-Continent to operate
    the drilling of about 100 wells.


 


    We plan to invest approximately $450 million of the total
    Mid-Continent capital budget in the Woodford Shale in 2009. We
    expect to drill about 80 operated horizontal wells by
    running 11 rigs throughout the year. Throughout 2008, we
    increased the length of our lateral completions, adding improved
    gas recoveries, higher production rates and better overall
    economics. Although we will run one less rig in 2009 than in
    2008, we expect to drill and complete an additional
    100,000 feet of Woodford section. Simply stated, we are
    drilling our wells faster and more efficiently. We expect that
    the average length of our lateral completions in 2009 will
    exceed 5,000 feet and that 75% of our planned wells will be
    drilled from common surface locations or pads. In addition, we
    also will participate in the drilling of
    60 — 70 wells operated by others in this
    area.


 


    We plan to operate one or two drilling rigs in our Granite Wash
    play. We recently drilled our first horizontal well in this play
    and are encouraged by the initial results. We are planning to
    drill about 10 additional horizontal wells in the field in
    2009 and invest $60 — $70 million.


 


    Rocky Mountains.  As of
    December 31, 2008, we owned an interest in about
    1.2 million gross acres and approximately 1,950 gross
    producing wells. Our assets in the Rockies are nearly 70% oil
    and have long-lived production. In 2007, we acquired the Rocky
    Mountain assets of Stone Energy for $578 million, adding
    200 Bcfe of proved reserves and exposure to new basins.


 


    We plan to run a three-rig drilling program in 2009 and expect
    to drill about 150 wells at Monument Butte. This is a 100
    well reduction from our 2008 drilling and reflects a reduced
    capital investment in this long-lived oil field. Because this
    field is
    held-by-production,
    our reduced activity levels will not result in lost
    opportunities. Our program will focus on continued development
    of the field on 40 and 20 acre locations. We have an
    estimated 1,000 locations remaining to drill the field down
    to 40-acre
    spacing. We have drilled 128 wells on
    20-acre
    spacing and results indicate that a large portion of the field
    will be developed on
    20-acre
    spacing. We have an estimated additional 1,000 — 2,500
    locations remaining to drill the field down to
    20-acre
    spacing. We will continue to invest on the 45,500 net acres
    north and adjacent to the Monument Butte field that we have
    interests in with Ute Energy LLC. As of mid-February 2009, we
    had drilled more than 45 wells on this acreage and results
    are consistent with those from our main field.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    There is a significant gas resource beneath the shallow
    producing oil zones at Monument Butte. In 2008, we participated
    in the drilling of six deep tests to evaluate these gas-bearing
    formations — the Wasatch, Mesa Verde, Blackhawk,
    Mancos and Dakota. We were encouraged by our results and believe
    that the deep gas play will be commercial at higher natural gas
    prices. We have deferred additional drilling expenditures in the
    play in 2009 and will study our recently collected data. Our
    collection of data in 2008 was aided by a deep gas agreement
    that we signed with Red Technology Alliance. The agreement
    allowed for promoted exploratory drilling and progressive
    earning in approximately 71,000 net acres in which we
    retain a majority interest. Three of the wells we drilled in
    2008 were under this agreement. Red Technology Alliance plans to
    drill several additional wells in this area in 2009 to further
    define this resource. Approximately 10,000 net acres in the
    immediate vicinity of our recent deep gas tests were excluded
    from the agreement with Red Technology Alliance. We drilled
    three successful operated wells in this area in 2008.


 


    We also have an active program in the Williston Basin. We will
    maintain a one-rig program in 2009 focused on drilling
    exploration wells to assess acreage for future development, as
    well as to drill wells to hold recently acquired acreage through
    production. To date, we have drilled nine successful wells with
    production from the Bakken and Three Forks/Sanish formations.
    During 2009, we expect to drill about 10-12 additional wells and
    invest about $45 million.


 


    Gulf of Mexico.  Our activities in the
    Gulf of Mexico are primarily focused on deepwater. Through
    bidding successes at recent lease sales, we established a large
    inventory of prospects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, which
    have a
    10-year
    term. As of mid-February 2009, we were in the process of
    drilling the second of two planned exploration wells. We have
    five deepwater field developments underway that are expected to
    grow our production in 2009 through 2012.


 


    Onshore Texas.  As of December 31,
    2008, we owned an interest in approximately 400,000 gross
    acres and about 1,000 gross producing wells onshore Texas.
    We expect to drill 25 — 30 wells in this region in
    2009.


 


    International.  Our international
    activities are focused offshore Malaysia and China. We plan to
    invest $95 million in 2009, which includes one deepwater
    exploratory well in Malaysia and continued development drilling
    in our shallow water oil fields.


 



    Marketing


 


    Substantially all of our natural gas and oil production is sold
    to a variety of purchasers under short-term (less than
    12 months) contracts at market sensitive prices. For a list
    of purchasers of our oil and gas production that accounted for
    10% or more of our consolidated revenue for the three preceding
    calendar years, please see Note 1, “Organization and
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Major
    Customers,” to our consolidated financial statements.
    We believe that the loss of any of these purchasers would not
    have a material adverse effect on us because alternative
    purchasers are readily available with the exception of
    purchasers of our Monument Butte field oil production. Due to
    the higher paraffin content of this production, there is limited
    refining capacity for it. Please see the discussion under
    “There is limited refining capacity for our black wax
    crude oil, and our ability to sell our current production or to
    increase our production at Monument Butte may be limited by the
    demand for our crude oil production” in Item 1A of
    this report.


 



    Competition


 


    Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly
    with respect to the hiring and retention of technical personnel,
    the acquisition of properties and access to drilling rigs and
    other services in the Gulf of Mexico. For a further discussion,
    please see the information regarding competition set forth in
    Item 1A of this report.


 



    Employees


 


    As of February 23, 2009, we had 1,054 employees. All
    but 95 of our employees were located in the U.S. None of
    our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
    We believe that relationships with our employees are
    satisfactory.



    
    6



Table of Contents



 



    Regulation


 


    For a discussion of the significant governmental regulations to
    which our business is subject, please see the information set
    forth under the caption “Regulation” in Item 7 of
    this report.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Information


 


    This report contains information that is forward-looking or
    relates to anticipated future events or results, such as planned
    capital expenditures, future drilling plans and programs,
    expected production rates, the availability and source of
    capital resources to fund capital expenditures, estimates of
    proved reserves and the estimated present value of such
    reserves, our financing plans and our business strategy and
    other plans and objectives for future operations. Although we
    believe that these expectations are reasonable, this information
    is based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are
    subject to numerous uncertainties and risks. Actual results may
    vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    oil and gas prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    general economic, financial, industry or business conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability and cost of capital to fund our operations and
    business strategies;




 



     
        • 

    
    the ability and willingness of current or potential lenders,
    hedging contract counterparties, customers, and working interest
    owners to fulfill their obligations to us or to enter into
    transactions with us in the future;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of refining capacity for the crude oil we
    produce from our Monument Butte field;




 



     
        • 

    
    drilling results;




 



     
        • 

    
    the prices of goods and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of drilling rigs and other support services;




 



     
        • 

    
    labor conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    severe weather conditions (such as hurricanes); and




 



     
        • 

    
    the other factors affecting our business described below under
    the caption “Risk Factors.”





 


    All forward-looking statements in this report, as well as all
    other written and oral forward-looking statements attributable
    to us or persons acting on our behalf, are expressly qualified
    in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in this
    section and elsewhere in this report. See “Item 1.
    Business,” “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors,” “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings,” “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for
    additional information about factors that may affect our
    businesses and operating results. These factors are not
    necessarily all of the important factors that could affect us.
    Use caution and common sense when considering these
    forward-looking statements. We do not intend to update these
    statements unless securities laws require us to do so.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    There are many factors that may affect Newfield’s business
    and results of operations. You should carefully consider, in
    addition to the other information contained in this report, the
    risks described below.


 


    Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and lower prices for
    an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse
    impact on our business.  Our revenues,
    profitability and future growth depend substantially on
    prevailing prices for oil and gas. Lower prices may reduce the
    amount of oil and gas that we can economically produce. These
    prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital
    expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional
    capital. The amount that we can borrow under our credit facility
    could be limited by changing expectations of future prices
    because the amount that we may borrow under our credit facility
    is determined by our lenders annually each May (and may be
    redetermined at the option of our



    
    7



Table of Contents




    lenders in the case of certain acquisitions or divestitures)
    using a process that takes into account the value of our
    estimated reserves and hedge position and the lenders’
    commodity price assumptions.


 


    Among the factors that can cause fluctuations in oil and gas
    prices are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    disruptions in supply and changes in demand caused by weather
    conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in demand as a result of changes in price;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price of foreign imports;




 



     
        • 

    
    world-wide economic conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations.





 


    We have substantial capital requirements to fund our
    business plans, and the current poor conditions generally in the
    economy and in the financial markets could jeopardize our
    ability to execute our business
    plans.  Although we have reduced our 2009
    capital budget to a level that we believe corresponds with our
    anticipated 2009 cash flows, since the timing of capital
    expenditures and the receipt of cash flows do not necessarily
    match, we anticipate borrowing and repaying funds under our
    credit arrangements throughout the year. We may have to further
    reduce capital expenditures and our ability to execute our
    business plans could be diminished if (1) one or more of
    the lenders under our existing credit arrangements fail to honor
    its contractual obligation to lend to us, (2) the amount
    that we are allowed to borrow under our existing credit facility
    is reduced as a result of lower oil and gas prices, declines in
    reserves, lending requirements or for other reasons or
    (3) our customers or working interest owners default on
    their obligations to us.


 


    Global credit markets have been, and continue to be, distressed.
    In this environment, the cost of raising money in the financial
    markets has increased while the availability of funds from those
    markets has diminished. In the current environment, many lenders
    have increased rates, imposed tighter lending standards, refused
    to refinance existing debt at maturity or on similar terms to
    existing debt and have reduced or ceased to provide new funding.


 


    In addition, to the extent that purchasers of our production or
    our working interest owners have difficulty financing their
    business activities, there could be an increased risk that
    purchasers of our production may default in their contractual
    obligations to us or that working interest owners may be unable
    or unwilling to pay their share of costs as they become due.
    Although we perform credit analyses on our customers, the
    general downturn in the economy and tightening of the financial
    markets could increase the risk that our customers and working
    interest owners fail to perform.


 


    Our use of oil and gas price hedging contracts may limit
    future revenues from price increases and involves the risk that
    our counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to
    us.  We generally hedge a substantial, but
    varying, portion of our anticipated future oil and natural gas
    production for the next
    12-24 months
    as part of our risk management program. In the case of
    significant acquisitions, we may hedge acquired production for a
    longer period. In addition, we may utilize basis contracts to
    hedge the differential between the NYMEX Henry Hub posted prices
    and those of our physical pricing points. Reducing our exposure
    to price volatility helps ensure that we have adequate funds
    available for our capital programs and helps us manage returns
    on some of our acquisitions and more price sensitive drilling
    programs. Although the use of hedging transactions limits the
    downside risk of price declines, their use also may limit future
    revenues from price increases.


 


    Hedging transactions also involve the risk that counterparties,
    which generally are financial institutions, may be unable to
    satisfy their obligations to us. Although we have entered into
    hedging contracts with multiple counterparties to mitigate our
    exposure to any individual counterparty, if any of our
    counterparties were to default on its obligations to us under
    the hedging contracts or seek bankruptcy protection, it could
    have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our
    planned activities and could result in a larger



    
    8



Table of Contents




    percentage of our future production being subject to commodity
    price changes. In addition, in the current economic environment
    and tight financial markets, the risk of a counterparty default
    is heightened and it is possible that fewer counterparties will
    participate in future hedging transactions, which could result
    in greater concentration of our exposure to any one counterparty
    or a larger percentage of our future production being subject to
    commodity price changes.


 


    To maintain and grow our production and cash flow, we must
    continue to develop existing reserves and locate or acquire new
    oil and gas reserves.  We accomplish this
    through successful drilling programs and the acquisition of
    properties. However, we may be unable to find, develop or
    acquire additional reserves or production at an acceptable cost.
    In addition, these activities require substantial capital
    expenditures. Although we have reduced our 2009 capital budget
    to a level that we believe corresponds with our anticipated 2009
    cash flows, we anticipate borrowing and repaying funds under our
    credit arrangements throughout the year to the extent that the
    timing of capital expenditures and the receipt of cash flows
    from operations do not match. We anticipate that any cash flow
    shortfall will be made up with cash on hand and borrowings under
    our credit arrangements. Lower oil and gas prices or unexpected
    operating constraints or production difficulties will decrease
    cash flow from operations and could limit our ability to borrow
    under our credit arrangements. In addition, in the past, we
    often have increased our capital budget during the year as a
    result of acquisitions or successful drilling. Our ability to
    fund attractive acquisition opportunities and future capital
    programs may be dependent on our ability to access capital
    markets. Further or continued volatility in the credit markets
    could adversely impact our ability to obtain financing at all or
    on acceptable terms. Because all of our credit arrangements
    provide for variable interest rates, higher interest rates would
    also reduce cash flow. For a detailed discussion of our credit
    arrangements and liquidity, please see “Liquidity and
    Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this report and
    Note 9, “Debt,” to our consolidated financial
    statements in Item 8 of this report.


 


    Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves and
    future cash flows from those reserves most likely will vary from
    our estimates.  Estimating accumulations of
    oil and gas is complex. The process relies on interpretations of
    available geologic, geophysic, engineering and production data.
    The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The
    process also requires a number of economic assumptions, such as
    oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital
    expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The accuracy of a
    reserve estimate is a function of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the quality and quantity of available data;




 



     
        • 

    
    the interpretation of that data;




 



     
        • 

    
    the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.





 


    The proved reserve information set forth in this report is based
    on estimates we prepared. Estimates prepared by others might
    differ materially from our estimates.


 


    Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves, future
    production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development
    expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from
    our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect
    the quantities and net present value of our reserves. In
    addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect
    production history, results of exploration and development
    activities and prevailing oil and gas prices. Our reserves also
    may be susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent
    properties.


 


    You should not assume that the present value of future net cash
    flows is the current market value of our proved oil and gas
    reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the
    estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves
    on prices and costs in effect at year-end. Actual future prices
    and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and
    costs we used. In addition, actual production rates for future
    periods may vary significantly from the rates assumed in the
    calculation.


 


    There is limited refining capacity for our black wax crude
    oil, and our ability to sell our current production or to
    increase our production at Monument Butte may be limited by the
    demand for our crude oil production.  Most of
    the crude oil we produce in the Uinta Basin is known as
    “black wax” because it has



    
    9



Table of Contents




    higher paraffin content than crude oil found in most other major
    North American basins. Due to its wax content, it must remain
    heated during shipping, so the oil is transported by truck to
    refiners in the Salt Lake City area. We currently have
    agreements in place with two area refiners that secure base load
    sales of approximately 5,000 BOPD through the end of 2009. In
    the current economic environment and tight financial markets,
    there is an increased risk that they may fail to satisfy their
    obligations to us under those contracts. During the fourth
    quarter of 2008, the largest purchaser of our black wax crude
    oil failed to pay for certain deliveries of crude oil and filed
    for bankruptcy protection. Although we continue to sell our
    black wax crude oil to that purchaser on a short-term basis that
    provides for more timely cash payments, we cannot guarantee that
    we will be able to continue to sell to this purchaser or that
    similar substitute arrangements could be made for sales of our
    black wax crude oil with other purchasers if desired. We
    continue to work with refiners to expand the market for our
    existing black wax crude oil production and to secure additional
    capacity to allow for production growth. However, without
    additional refining capacity, our ability to increase production
    from the field may be limited.


 


    Lower oil and gas prices and other factors resulted in a
    ceiling test writedown and may in the future result in
    additional ceiling test writedowns or other
    impairments.  We capitalize the costs to
    acquire, find and develop our oil and gas properties under the
    full cost accounting method. The net capitalized costs of our
    oil and gas properties may not exceed the present value of
    estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, using
    period-end oil and gas prices and a 10% discount factor, plus
    the lower of cost or fair market value for unproved properties.
    If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceed
    this limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings.
    This is called a “ceiling test writedown.” As of
    December 31, 2008, we recorded a $1.8 billion
    ($1.1 billion after-tax) ceiling test writedown. Although a
    ceiling test writedown does not impact cash flow from
    operations, it does reduce our stockholders’ equity. Once
    recorded, a ceiling test writedown is not reversible at a later
    date even if oil and gas prices increase.


 


    We review the net capitalized costs of our properties quarterly,
    based on prices in effect (excluding the effect of our hedging
    contracts that are not designated for hedge accounting) as of
    the end of each quarter or as of the time of reporting our
    results. The net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties are
    computed on a
    country-by-country
    basis. Therefore, while our properties in one country may be
    subject to a writedown, our properties in other countries could
    be unaffected. We also assess investments in unproved properties
    periodically to determine whether impairment has occurred.


 


    The risk that we will be required to further write down the
    carrying value of our oil and gas properties increases when oil
    and gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, writedowns may
    occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our
    estimated proved reserves or our unproved property values, or if
    estimated future development costs increase. We may experience
    further ceiling test writedowns or other impairments in the
    future. In addition, any future ceiling test cushion would be
    subject to fluctuation as a result of acquisition or divestiture
    activity.


 


    Drilling is a high-risk activity.  In
    addition to the numerous operating risks described in more
    detail below, the drilling of wells involves the risk that no
    commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be
    encountered. In addition, we often are uncertain as to the
    future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing
    wells. Furthermore, our drilling operations may be curtailed,
    delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the
    delivery of equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    embedded oilfield drilling and service tools;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents; and




 



     
        • 

    
    compliance with governmental requirements.






    
    10



Table of Contents



 


    The oil and gas business involves many operating risks
    that can cause substantial losses; insurance may not protect us
    against all of these risks.  These risks
    include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    fires and explosions;




 



     
        • 

    
    blow-outs;




 



     
        • 

    
    uncontrollable or unknown flows of oil, gas, formation water or
    drilling fluids;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions or natural disasters;




 



     
        • 

    
    pipe or cement failures and casing collapses;




 



     
        • 

    
    pipeline ruptures;




 



     
        • 

    
    discharges of toxic gases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    build up of naturally occurring radioactive materials.





 


    If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses
    as a result of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    injury or loss of life;




 



     
        • 

    
    severe damage or destruction of property and equipment, and oil
    and gas reservoirs;




 



     
        • 

    
    pollution and other environmental damage;




 



     
        • 

    
    investigatory and
    clean-up
    responsibilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory investigation and penalties;




 



     
        • 

    
    suspension of our operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    repairs to resume operations.





 


    If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct
    operations could be adversely affected.


 


    Offshore and deepwater operations are subject to a variety of
    operating risks, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or
    loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These
    conditions have in the past, and may in the future, cause
    substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. Some
    of our offshore operations, and most of our deepwater
    operations, are dependent upon the availability, proximity and
    capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and
    processing facilities that we do not own. Necessary
    infrastructures have been in the past, and may be in the future,
    temporarily unavailable due to adverse weather conditions or may
    not be available to us in the future at all or on acceptable
    terms.


 


    We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these
    potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance
    if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive
    relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and
    environmental risks generally are not insurable.


 


    Exploration in deepwater involves significant financial
    risks, and we may be unable to obtain the drilling rigs or
    support services necessary for our deepwater drilling and
    development programs in a timely manner or at acceptable
    rates.  Much of the deepwater play lacks the
    physical and oilfield service infrastructure necessary for
    production. As a result, development of a deepwater discovery
    may be a lengthy process and require substantial capital
    investment. Because of their size, we may not serve as the
    operator of significant projects in which we invest. As a
    result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over
    operations related to these projects or their associated costs.
    Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners
    for these deepwater projects and our limited ability to
    influence operations and associated costs could prevent the
    realization of our targeted returns on capital.


 


    In addition, there is limited availability of suitable drilling
    rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and
    transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel,
    and deepwater drilling rigs typically are subject to long-term
    contracts. This can lead to difficulty and delays in
    consistently obtaining



    
    11



Table of Contents




    drilling rigs and other equipment and services at acceptable
    rates, which, in turn, may lead to projects being delayed or
    increased costs. This also makes it difficult to estimate the
    timing of our production.


 


    Competition for experienced technical personnel may
    negatively impact our operations or financial
    results.  Our continued drilling success and
    the success of other activities integral to our operations will
    depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain
    experienced explorationists, engineers and other professionals.
    Despite the recent decline in commodity prices and lower
    industry activity levels, competition for these professionals
    remains strong. We are likely to continue to experience
    increased costs to attract and retain these professionals.


 


    There is competition for available oil and gas
    properties.  Our competitors include major oil
    and gas companies, independent oil and gas companies and
    financial buyers. Some of our competitors may have greater and
    more diverse resources than we do. High commodity prices and
    stiff competition for acquisitions have in the past, and may in
    the future, significantly increase the cost of available
    properties.


 


    We may be subject to risks in connection with
    acquisitions.  The successful acquisition of
    producing properties requires an assessment of several factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    recoverable reserves;




 



     
        • 

    
    future oil and gas prices and their appropriate differentials;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    potential environmental and other liabilities.





 


    The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In
    connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the
    subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent
    with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing
    or potential problems nor will it permit us to become
    sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their
    deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections will not likely be
    performed on every well or facility, and structural and
    environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when
    an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified,
    the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective
    contractual protection against all or part of the problems.


 


    We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost,
    manner or feasibility of doing
    business.  Exploration and development and the
    production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive
    federal, state, local and international regulation. We may be
    required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental
    and other governmental regulations. Matters subject to
    regulation include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be
    released into the environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    response to unexpected releases to the environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    reports and permits concerning exploration, drilling, production
    and other operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the spacing of wells;




 



     
        • 

    
    unitization and pooling of properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    calculating royalties on oil and gas produced under federal and
    state leases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    taxation.





 


    Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries,
    property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials,
    remediation and
    clean-up
    costs, natural resource damages and other environmental damages.
    We also could be required to install expensive pollution control
    measures or limit or cease activities on lands located within
    wilderness, wetlands or other environmentally or politically
    sensitive areas. Failure to comply with these laws also may
    result in the suspension or termination of our operations and
    subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties as
    well as the imposition of corrective action orders. Moreover,
    these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our
    costs. Any such liabilities, penalties,



    
    12



Table of Contents




    suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.


 


    Potential regulations regarding climate change could alter
    the way we conduct our business.  Governments
    around the world are beginning to address climate change
    matters. This may result in new environmental regulations that
    may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers and our customers. The
    cost of meeting these requirements may have an adverse impact on
    our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    We have risks associated with our
    non-U.S. operations.  Ownership
    of property interests and production operations in areas outside
    the United States is subject to the various risks inherent in
    international operations. These risks may include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of
    expropriation, nationalization, war or insurrection;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in taxes and governmental royalties;




 



     
        • 

    
    renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities and
    quasi-governmental agencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in laws and policies governing operations of
    non-U.S. based
    companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    labor problems; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other uncertainties arising out of foreign government
    sovereignty over our international operations.





 


    Our international operations also may be adversely affected by
    the laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign
    trade, taxation and investment. In addition, if a dispute arises
    with respect to our international operations, we may be subject
    to the exclusive jurisdiction of
    non-U.S. courts
    or may not be successful in subjecting
    non-U.S. persons
    to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.


 


    Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, some of our
    arrangements with employees and Delaware law contain provisions
    that could discourage an acquisition or change of control of our
    company.  Our certificate of incorporation and
    bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult to
    effect a change of control of our company, to acquire us or to
    replace incumbent management. In addition, our change of control
    severance plan and agreements, our omnibus stock plans and our
    incentive compensation plan contain provisions that provide for
    severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits,
    including accelerated vesting of restricted stock, restricted
    stock units and stock options, upon a change of control.
    Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law also
    imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations
    between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding
    common stock. These provisions could discourage or prevent a
    change of control or reduce the price our stockholders receive
    in an acquisition of our company.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B