Item 1A of this report.


 


    We plan to drill 200 wells at Monument Butte in 2008. Our
    plans include the ongoing development of the field on
    40-acre
    spacing, the conversion of existing producing wells to
    waterflood injector wells and an increasing number of
    20-acre
    spaced infill wells. Over the last two years, we have drilled
    more than 50 wells on
    20-acre
    spacing. Results indicate the potential to develop a large
    portion of the field on
    20-acre
    spacing. A drilling rig is dedicated to this program in 2008.


 


    In 2006, we signed an alliance with the Northern Ute Tribe,
    allowing us to drill wells on 47,000 gross acres located
    north and adjacent to Monument Butte. As of mid-February 2008,
    we had drilled 16 successful wells on this acreage and
    production has been consistent with wells in the main portion of
    the field. We will have a rig dedicated to drilling wells on
    this acreage throughout most of 2008.


 


    There also is the potential for significant gas resources
    beneath the shallow producing oil sands at Monument Butte.
    Recent industry wells, as well as a few wells on our acreage
    that we have participated in, provide encouragement that the
    Wasatch, Mesa Verde, Blackhawk and Mancos Shale formations can
    be



    
    6



Table of Contents




    exploited economically. We have signed an agreement with a third
    party that allows for promoted exploratory drilling and
    progressive earning in approximately 71,000 net acres in
    which we will retain a majority interest. Drilling under this
    agreement is expected to commence in the second quarter of 2008.
    Approximately 10,000 net acres in the immediate vicinity of
    our recent deep gas tests were excluded from the agreement and
    we plan to drill several wells on this acreage in 2008.


 


    In the Green River Basin, we are active in the Pinedale and
    Jonah fields. We plan to drill 10 wells at Pinedale in 2008.
    Through an agreement reached in 2007, we assumed operatorship of
    the drilling program and increased our working interest to 85%.
    In the Jonah field, we are planning to drill five wells in 2008.


 


    For 2008, we plan to drill at least 10 wells and invest
    approximately $50 million in the Williston Basin, including
    seismic purchases. Prospective targets in this region include
    the Madison, Red River and Duperow formations.


 


    Onshore Texas.  As of December 31,
    2007, we owned an interest in approximately 350,000 gross
    acres and about 650 gross producing wells onshore Texas.


 


    We are active in most of the major producing trends in South
    Texas, including the Frio, Wilcox and Lobo plays. Our largest
    investment in South Texas in 2008 will be the Frio Trend. We
    have an interest in more than 60,000 acres in this trend,
    which is located primarily in Kenedy, Hidalgo, Brooks and Zapata
    Counties. In East Texas, we have an interest in 30,000 net
    acres, of which 11,000 net acres are associated with a
    joint venture with a private company.


 


    To date, we have been very successful in a joint venture in
    Kenedy County with ExxonMobil adjacent to our existing Sarita
    field. Since the formation of the joint venture in 2005, we have
    drilled 23 successful wells and have a similar inventory of
    drilling locations. The area of activity today encompasses about
    2,700 gross acres. The prospective horizons are numerous
    and gas is prevalent from 10,000 feet to as deep as
    20,000 feet. Production at year-end 2007 was approximately
    75 MMcfe/d gross. Our interest in the joint venture is
    approximately 50%.


 


    In 2007, we formed a 40,000-acre joint venture with a private
    company that covers lands south and east of our existing
    ExxonMobil joint venture and also targets Frio horizons.
    Drilling is planned to begin in early 2008.


 


    In the Val Verde Basin, we have an interest in nearly
    130,000 gross acres located primarily in Val Verde, Terrell
    and Edwards Counties. At year-end 2007, our gross production
    from the area was approximately 70 MMcfe/d. Our working
    interests range from
    50-100%. We
    plan to drill 10–12 wells in the basin in 2008.


 


    Gulf of Mexico.  Our activities in the
    Gulf of Mexico are primarily focused on deepwater. At year-end
    2007, our net daily production from the deepwater was nearly
    40 MMcfe/d from four fields. As of December 31, 2007,
    we owned interests in 61 leases in deepwater (approximately
    300,000 gross acres). We also own interests in 26
    conventional shallow water lease blocks and a 10–25%
    interest in 85 shallow water lease blocks related to the ultra
    deep “Treasure Project” concept.


 


    In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we have been active in recent
    lease sales and expect to continue this effort in 2008. We now
    have an inventory of prospects that will allow us to drill four
    or five exploratory wells per year over the next several years.
    We have two field developments underway in deepwater that will
    grow our production in the second half of 2008 and early 2009.


 


    Our exploration efforts in deepwater can be classified into two
    distinct categories — prospects near existing
    infrastructure and those requiring stand-alone developments. The
    prospects located near infrastructure are generally smaller and
    lower risk than those requiring a stand-alone development. We
    prefer to operate prospects near existing infrastructure with
    interests ranging from 50–70%. Stand-alone developments are
    generally in deeper water (greater than 5,500 feet) and
    typically have long lead times. We often manage our exposure to
    these higher risk prospects by taking a smaller working interest
    or selling down our interest on a promoted basis.



    
    7



Table of Contents




    International.  Our activities are
    focused primarily offshore Malaysia and China. We plan to invest
    $155 million in international activities in 2008, of which
    approximately 60% is dedicated to the ongoing development of oil
    fields offshore Malaysia.


 


    Our shallow water concessions in Malaysia include a 50%
    non-operated interest in PM 318 and a 60% operated interest in
    PM 323. On PM 318, our Abu field commenced production in 2007
    and production at year-end 2007 was approximately 14,000 BOPD
    gross. Our Puteri field is expected to commence production in
    the second quarter of 2008 and is expected to produce
    6,000–8,000 BOPD gross. We have additional fields that will
    be developed and produced through existing infrastructure on
    this 414,000 acre concession. On PM 323, we are developing
    the East Belumut and Chermingat fields. First production is
    expected in mid-2008. These fields are expected to produce about
    15,000 BOPD gross. We have additional exploration prospects on
    this 320,000 acre concession.


 


    On deepwater Block 2C offshore Sarawak, which covers
    1.1 million acres, we plan to drill our second commitment
    well in the second half of 2008. We will operate the exploratory
    well with a 40% interest.


 


    In China, we are producing approximately 1,200 BOPD net from
    Bohai Bay. We also signed agreements with respect to three new
    blocks in the South China Sea that cover approximately
    3.5 million gross acres. At year-end 2007, we were in the
    process of drilling two consecutive exploration wells on these
    concessions.


 


    For revenues from our domestic and international operations, see
    Note 15, “Segment Information,” to our
    consolidated financial statements appearing later in this report.


 


    Please see the discussion under the caption
    “Forward-Looking Information” in Item 7 of this
    report.


 



    Marketing


 


    Substantially all of our natural gas and oil production is sold
    to a variety of purchasers under short-term (less than
    12 months) contracts at market sensitive prices. For a list
    of purchasers of our oil and gas production that accounted for
    10% or more of our consolidated revenue for the three preceding
    calendar years, please see Note 1, “Organization and
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Major
    Customers,” to our consolidated financial statements.
    We believe that the loss of any of these purchasers would not
    have a material adverse effect on us because alternative
    purchasers are readily available.


 



    Competition


 


    Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly
    with respect to the hiring and retention of technical personnel,
    the acquisition of properties and access to drilling rigs and
    other services in deepwater in the Gulf of Mexico. For a further
    discussion, please see the information regarding competition set
    forth in Item 1A of this report.


 



    Employees


 


    As of February 15, 2008, we had 927 employees. All but
    76 of our employees were located in the U.S. None of our
    employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We
    believe that relationships with our employees are satisfactory.


 



    Regulation


 


    For a discussion of the significant governmental regulations to
    which our business is subject, please see the information set
    forth under the caption “Regulation” in Item 7 of
    this report.



    
    8



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    An investment in our securities involves risks. You should
    carefully consider, in addition to the other information
    contained in this report, the risks described below.


 


    Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and lower prices for
    an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse
    impact on our business.  Our revenues,
    profitability and future growth depend substantially on
    prevailing prices for oil and gas. These prices also affect the
    amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our
    ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount that
    we can borrow under our credit facility could be limited by
    changing expectations of future prices. In addition, lower
    prices may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can
    economically produce.


 


    Among the factors that can cause fluctuations are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    disruptions in supply and changes in demand caused by weather
    conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in demand as a result of changes in price;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price of foreign imports;




 



     
        • 

    
    world-wide economic conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations.





 


    To maintain and grow our production and cash flow, we must
    continue to develop existing reserves and locate or acquire new
    oil and gas reserves.  We accomplish this
    through successful drilling programs and the acquisition of
    properties. However, we may be unable to find, develop or
    acquire additional reserves or production at an acceptable cost.
    In addition, these activities require substantial capital
    expenditures. Our 2008 capital budget exceeds currently expected
    cash flow from operations and cash and short-term investments on
    hand at year end 2007 by approximately $260 million. In the
    past, we often have increased our capital budget during the year
    as a result of acquisitions or successful drilling. We
    anticipate that the shortfall will be made up with cash and
    short-term investments on hand and borrowings under our credit
    arrangements. Lower oil and gas prices or unexpected operating
    constraints or production difficulties will decrease cash flow
    from operations and could limit our ability to borrow under our
    credit arrangements. We also currently expect that our 2009
    capital budget will exceed expected cash flow from operations.
    Our ability to fund attractive acquisition opportunities and
    future capital programs may be dependent on our ability to
    access capital markets. Further or continued volatility in the
    credit markets could adversely impact our ability to obtain
    financing on acceptable terms. Because all of our credit
    arrangements provide for variable interest rates, higher
    interest rates would also reduce cash flow. For a detailed
    discussion of our credit arrangements and liquidity, please see
    “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of
    this report.


 


    Our use of oil and gas price hedging contracts involves
    credit risk and may limit future revenues from price
    increases.  We generally hedge a substantial,
    but varying, portion of our anticipated future oil and natural
    gas production for the next
    12-24 months
    as part of our risk management program. In addition, we may
    utilize basis contracts to hedge the differential between the
    NYMEX Henry Hub posted prices for natural gas and those of our
    physical pricing points. In the case of acquisitions, we may
    hedge acquired production for a longer period. We use hedging to
    reduce price volatility, help ensure that we have adequate cash
    flow to fund our capital programs and manage price risks and
    returns on some of our acquisitions and drilling programs. While
    the use of hedging transactions limits the downside risk of
    price declines, their use also may limit future revenues from
    price increases. Hedging transactions also involve the risk that
    the counterparty may be unable to satisfy its obligations.


 


    Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves and
    future cash flows from those reserves most likely will vary from
    our estimates.  Estimating accumulations of
    oil and gas is complex. The process relies



    
    9



Table of Contents




    on interpretations of available geologic, geophysic, engineering
    and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this
    data can vary. The process also requires a number of economic
    assumptions, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating
    expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.
    The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the quality and quantity of available data;




 



     
        • 

    
    the interpretation of that data;




 



     
        • 

    
    the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.





 


    The proved reserve information set forth in this report is based
    on estimates we prepared. Estimates prepared by others might
    differ materially from our estimates.


 


    Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves, future
    production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development
    expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from
    our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect
    the quantities and net present value of our reserves. In
    addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect
    production history, results of exploration and development
    activities and prevailing oil and gas prices. Our reserves also
    may be susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent
    properties.


 


    You should not assume that the present value of future net cash
    flows is the current market value of our proved oil and gas
    reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the
    estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves
    on prices and costs in effect at year-end. Actual future prices
    and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and
    costs we used. In addition, actual production rates for future
    periods may vary significantly from the rates assumed in the
    calculation.


 


    If oil and gas prices decrease, we may be required to take
    writedowns.  We may be required to writedown
    the net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties when oil
    and gas prices decrease or if we have substantial downward
    adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our
    estimates of operating or development costs or deterioration in
    our exploitation results.


 


    We capitalize the costs to acquire, find and develop our oil and
    gas properties under the full cost accounting method. The net
    capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed
    the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved
    reserves, using period-end oil and gas prices and a 10% discount
    factor, plus the lower of cost or fair market value for unproved
    properties. If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas
    properties exceed this limit, we must charge the amount of the
    excess to earnings. We review the net capitalized costs of our
    properties quarterly, based on prices in effect (excluding the
    effect of our hedging contracts that are not designated for
    hedge accounting) as of the end of each quarter or as of the
    time of reporting our results. The net capitalized costs of oil
    and gas properties is computed on a
    country-by-country
    basis. Therefore, while our properties in one country may be
    subject to a writedown, our properties in other countries could
    be unaffected. Once recorded, a writedown of oil and gas
    properties is not reversible at a later date even if oil and gas
    prices increase.


 


    Production growth at Monument Butte may be limited by the
    demand for our crude oil production.  The
    crude oil produced in the Uinta Basin is known as “black
    wax” because it has a higher paraffin content than crude
    oil found in most other major North American basins. Due to its
    waxy composition, the oil is transported by truck to refiners in
    the Salt Lake City area. These refiners have limited capacity to
    refine this type of crude. We currently have agreements in place
    with four area refiners that secure base load capacity of
    approximately 14,000 BOPD through 2008 and 12,500 BOPD through
    2009. We are working with the refiners to secure additional
    capacity to allow for continued production growth. Without
    additional refining capacity, our ability to increase production
    from the field may be limited.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    Competition for experienced technical personnel may
    negatively impact our operations or financial
    results.  Our continued drilling success and
    the success of other activities integral to our operations will
    depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain
    experienced explorationists, engineers and other professionals.
    Competition for these professionals is extremely intense. We are
    likely to continue to experience increased costs to attract and
    retain these professionals.


 


    Competition for available oil and gas properties is
    extremely intense.  Our competitors include
    major oil and gas companies, independent oil and gas companies
    and financial buyers. Some of our competitors may have greater
    and more diverse resources than we do. Recently, higher
    commodity prices and stiff competition for acquisitions have
    significantly increased the cost of available properties.


 


    We may be unable to obtain the drilling rigs or support
    services necessary for our offshore drilling and development
    programs in a timely manner or at acceptable
    rates.  In periods of increased drilling
    activity resulting from high commodity prices, demand exceeds
    availability for offshore drilling rigs, drilling vessels, dive
    boats, supply boats and experienced personnel. The market for
    oilfield services is currently very competitive. This may lead
    to difficulty and delays in consistently obtaining services and
    equipment from vendors, obtaining drilling rigs and other
    equipment at acceptable rates, and scheduling equipment
    fabrication at factories and fabrication yards. This, in turn,
    may lead to projects being delayed or increased costs.


 


    We may be subject to risks in connection with
    acquisitions.  The successful acquisition of
    producing properties requires an assessment of several factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    recoverable reserves;




 



     
        • 

    
    future oil and gas prices and their appropriate differentials;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    potential environmental and other liabilities.





 


    The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In
    connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the
    subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent
    with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing
    or potential problems nor will it permit us to become
    sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their
    deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections will not likely be
    performed on every well or facility, and structural and
    environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when
    an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified,
    the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective
    contractual protection against all or part of the problems.


 


    Drilling is a high-risk activity.  In
    addition to the numerous operating risks described in more
    detail below, the drilling of wells involves the risk that no
    commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be
    encountered. In addition, we often are uncertain as to the
    future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing
    wells. Furthermore, our drilling operations may be curtailed,
    delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the
    delivery of equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    embedded oilfield drilling and service tools;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents; and






    
    11



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    compliance with governmental requirements.





 


    The oil and gas business involves many operating risks
    that can cause substantial losses; insurance may not protect us
    against all these risks.  These risks include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    fires and explosions;




 



     
        • 

    
    blow-outs;




 



     
        • 

    
    uncontrollable or unknown flows of oil, gas, formation water or
    drilling fluids;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions or natural disasters;




 



     
        • 

    
    pipe or cement failures and casing collapses;




 



     
        • 

    
    pipeline ruptures;




 



     
        • 

    
    discharges of toxic gases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    build up of naturally occurring radioactive materials.





 


    If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses
    as a result of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    injury or loss of life;




 



     
        • 

    
    severe damage or destruction of property and equipment, and oil
    and gas reservoirs;




 



     
        • 

    
    pollution and other environmental damage;




 



     
        • 

    
    investigatory and
    clean-up
    responsibilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory investigation and penalties;




 



     
        • 

    
    suspension of our operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    repairs to resume operations.





 


    If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct
    operations could be adversely affected.


 


    Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks,
    such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes
    or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause
    substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. Some
    of our offshore operations are dependent upon the availability,
    proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering
    systems and processing facilities. Necessary infrastructures may
    be temporarily unavailable due to adverse weather conditions or
    may not be available to us in the future.


 


    We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these
    potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance
    if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive
    relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and
    environmental risks generally are not insurable.


 


    Exploration in deepwater may involve significant financial
    risks.  Much of the deepwater play lacks the
    physical and oilfield service infrastructure necessary for
    production. As a result, development of a deepwater discovery
    may be a lengthy process and require substantial capital
    investment. Because of their size, we may not serve as the
    operator of significant projects in which we invest. As a
    result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over
    operations related to these projects or their associated costs.
    Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners
    for these deepwater projects and our limited ability to
    influence operations and associated costs could prevent the
    realization of our targeted returns on capital. In addition,
    there is limited availability of suitable offshore drilling
    rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and
    transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel.


 


    We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost,
    manner or feasibility of doing
    business.  Exploration and development and the
    production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive
    federal, state,



    
    12



Table of Contents




    local and international regulation. We may be required to make
    large expenditures to comply with environmental and other
    governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be
    released into the environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    reports and permits concerning exploration, drilling, production
    and other operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the spacing of wells;




 



     
        • 

    
    unitization and pooling of properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    calculating royalties on oil and gas produced under federal and
    state leases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    taxation.





 


    Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries,
    property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials,
    remediation and
    clean-up
    costs, natural resource damages and other environmental damages.
    We also could be required to install expensive pollution control
    measures or limit or cease activities on lands located within
    wilderness, wetlands or other environmentally or politically
    sensitive areas. Failure to comply with these laws also may
    result in the suspension or termination of our operations and
    subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties as
    well as the imposition of corrective action orders. Moreover,
    these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our
    costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions,
    terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.


 


    We have risks associated with our foreign
    operations.  Ownership of property interests
    and production operations in areas outside the United States is
    subject to the various risks inherent in foreign operations.
    These risks may include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of
    expropriation, nationalization, war or insurrection;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in taxes and governmental royalties;




 



     
        • 

    
    renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities and
    quasi-governmental agencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in laws and policies governing operations of
    foreign-based companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    labor problems; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other uncertainties arising out of foreign government
    sovereignty over our international operations.





 


    Our international operations also may be adversely affected by
    the laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign
    trade, taxation and investment. In addition, if a dispute arises
    with respect to our foreign operations, we may be subject to the
    exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be
    successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of
    the courts of the United States.


 


    Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder
    rights plan and some of our arrangements with employees contain
    provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of
    control of our company.  Our stockholder
    rights plan, together with certain provisions of our certificate
    of incorporation and bylaws, may make it more difficult to
    effect a change of control of our company, to acquire us or to
    replace incumbent management. In addition, our change of control
    severance plan and agreements, our omnibus stock plans and our
    incentive compensation plan contain provisions that provide for
    severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits,
    including accelerated vesting of restricted stock, restricted
    stock units and stock options, upon a change of control. These
    provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control or
    reduce the price our stockholders receive in an acquisition of
    our company.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B