Item 1A of this report. Our 2007 capital
    budget includes $135 million for our activities in the
    Rocky Mountains.


 


    Gulf of Mexico.  We expect to drill
    about
    20-25 wells
    in 2007, including
    15-20 in the
    traditional shelf and 4-5 in deepwater. About $440 million
    of our capital budget for 2007 has been allocated to our Gulf of
    Mexico program. Our activities in the traditional shelf are
    helping to maintain production levels while generating
    significant cash flow to fund other growth areas.


 


    International.  In recent years, we have
    invested increasing amounts in international operations. Recent
    field developments offshore Malaysia and China and in the U.K.
    North Sea are expected to add significant production in 2007.
    Our planned investment in international ventures for 2007 is
    expected to be more than $200 million.


 


    In 2007, our activities in Malaysia will focus on bringing our
    Abu Field on-line. In addition, development continues at the
    Puteri Field on PM 318 and the East Belumut and Chermingat
    Fields on PM 323. Offshore China, our drilling program for the
    Bohai Bay will focus on development of our two commercial
    fields, where production commenced in the middle of 2006. In the
    U.K. North Sea, our Grove Field is being prepared for
    production. We plan to drill three exploration prospects in the
    North Sea in 2007. Under an agreement signed in 2006, a
    significant portion of the costs associated with these
    exploration prospects will be funded by another company. The
    first of the three wells has been drilled and was
    unsuccessful.


 


    Please see the discussion under the caption
    “Forward-Looking Information” in Item 7 of this
    report.






 



    Marketing


 


    Substantially all of our natural gas and oil production is sold
    to a variety of purchasers under short-term (less than
    12 months) contracts at market sensitive prices. For a list
    of purchasers of our oil and gas production that accounted for
    10% or more of our consolidated revenue for the three preceding
    calendar years, please see Note 1, “Organization and
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Major
    Customers,” to our consolidated financial statements.
    We believe that the loss of any of these purchasers would not
    have a material adverse effect on us because alternative
    purchasers of this production are readily available.






 



    Competition


 


    Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly
    access to drilling rigs and other services, the acquisition of
    properties and the hiring and retention of technical personnel.
    For a further discussion, please see the information set forth
    under the caption “Competitive industry conditions may
    negatively affect our ability to conduct operations” in
    Item 1A of this report.






 



    Employees


 


    As of February 15, 2007, we had 871 employees. All but 70
    of our employees were located in the U.S. None of our
    employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We
    believe that relationships with our employees are satisfactory.






 



    Regulation


 


    For a discussion of the significant governmental regulations to
    which our business is subject, please see the information set
    forth under the caption “Regulation” in Item 7 of
    this report.



    
    4



Table of Contents







 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    An investment in our securities involves risks. You should
    carefully consider, in addition to the other information
    contained in this report, the risks described below.


 


    Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and lower prices for
    an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse
    impact on our business.  Our revenues,
    profitability and future growth depend substantially on
    prevailing prices for oil and gas. These prices also affect the
    amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our
    ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount that
    we can borrow under our credit facility could be limited by
    changing expectations of future prices. In addition, lower
    prices may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can
    economically produce.


 


    Among the factors that can cause fluctuations are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    disruptions in supply and changes in demand caused by weather
    conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in demand as a result of changes in price;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price of foreign imports;




 



     
        • 

    
    world-wide economic conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations.





 


    Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop
    and acquire oil and gas reserves.  Most of our
    producing properties have declining production rates. To
    maintain production levels, we must locate and develop or
    acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those depleted by
    production. Without successful exploration or acquisition
    activities, our reserves, production and revenues will decline
    rapidly. We may be unable to find and develop or acquire
    additional reserves at an acceptable cost. In addition,
    substantial capital is required to replace and grow reserves. If
    lower oil and gas prices or operating constraints or production
    difficulties result in our cash flow from operations being less
    than expected or limit our ability to borrow under our credit
    arrangements, we may be unable to expend the capital necessary
    to locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves.


 


    Our use of oil and gas price hedging contracts involves
    credit risk and may limit future revenues from price
    increases.  We generally hedge a substantial,
    but varying, portion of our anticipated future oil and natural
    gas production for the next 12-24 months as part of our
    risk management program. In the case of acquisitions, we may
    hedge acquired production for a longer period. We use hedging to
    reduce price volatility, help ensure that we have adequate cash
    flow to fund our capital programs and manage price risks and
    returns on some of our acquisitions and drilling programs. While
    the use of hedging transactions limits the downside risk of
    price declines, their use also may limit future revenues from
    price increases. Hedging transactions also involve the risk that
    the counterparty may be unable to satisfy its obligations.


 


    Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves and
    future cash flows from those reserves most likely will vary from
    our estimates.  Estimating accumulations of
    oil and gas is complex. The process relies on interpretations of
    available geologic, geophysic, engineering and production data.
    The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The
    process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of
    which are mandated by the SEC, such as oil and gas prices,
    drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and
    availability of funds. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a
    function of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the quality and quantity of available data;




 



     
        • 

    
    the interpretation of that data;




 



     
        • 

    
    the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.






    
    5



Table of Contents



 


    The proved reserve information set forth in this report is based
    on estimates we prepared. Estimates prepared by others might
    differ materially from our estimates.


 


    Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves, future
    production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development
    expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from
    our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect
    the quantities and net present value of our reserves. In
    addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect
    production history, results of exploration and development and
    prevailing oil and gas prices. Our reserves also may be
    susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent properties.


 


    You should not assume that the present value of future net cash
    flows is the current market value of our estimated proved oil
    and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base
    the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved
    reserves on prices and costs in effect at December 31.
    Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower
    than the prices and costs we used.


 


    If oil and gas prices decrease, we may be required to take
    writedowns.  We may be required to writedown
    the carrying value of our oil and gas properties when oil and
    gas prices decrease or if we have substantial downward
    adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our
    estimates of operating or development costs or deterioration in
    our exploration results.


 


    We capitalize the costs to acquire, find and develop our oil and
    gas properties under the full cost accounting method. The net
    capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed
    the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved
    reserves, using period-end oil and gas prices and a 10% discount
    factor, plus the lower of cost or fair market value for unproved
    properties. If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas
    properties exceed this limit, we must charge the amount of the
    excess to earnings. We review the carrying value of our
    properties quarterly, based on prices in effect (including the
    effect of our hedging contracts that are designated for hedge
    accounting) as of the end of each quarter or as of the time of
    reporting our results. The carrying value of oil and gas
    properties is computed on a
    country-by-country
    basis. Therefore, while our properties in one country may be
    subject to a writedown, our properties in other countries could
    be unaffected. Once recorded, a writedown of oil and gas
    properties is not reversible at a later date even if oil and gas
    prices increase.


 


    We may not achieve production growth from our Monument
    Butte Field.  In August 2004, we acquired the
    100,000-acre Monument
    Butte Field located in the Uinta Basin of Northeast Utah for
    approximately $575 million. The crude oil produced in the
    Uinta Basin is known as “black wax” because it has a
    higher paraffin content than crude oil found in most other major
    North American basins. Currently, area refineries have limited
    capacity to refine this type of crude oil. As a result we
    curtailed some production from the field in 2006. In early 2007,
    we reached agreements with two refiners that secure base load
    capacity of approximately 11,000 BOPD of capacity through 2008
    and 7,400 BOPD through 2009. We are working with other area
    refiners to secure additional capacity. Without additional
    refining capacity, our ability to increase production from the
    field will be limited. In addition, the price we receive for our
    production from the field has been adversely affected by the
    increased availability of “black wax” and other
    competitive crude oil in the market.


 


    Waterflooding, a secondary recovery operation that involves the
    injection of large volumes of water into an oil-producing
    reservoir, is necessary to recover the oil reserves in the
    Monument Butte Field. In 2006, we signed a water source
    agreement with the Duchesne Conservancy Water District that
    secures access to approximately 62,000 barrels of water per
    day through May 2051. This agreement provides sufficient water
    for our current operations and will permit some future growth
    but our ability to significantly increase production from the
    field may be limited if we do not obtain additional sources of
    water in the future.


 


    Competition for experienced technical personnel may
    negatively impact our operations or financial
    results.  Our continued drilling success and
    the success of other activities integral to our operations will
    depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain
    experienced explorationists, engineers and other professionals.
    Competition for these professionals is extremely intense. We are
    likely to continue to experience increased costs to attract and
    retain these professionals.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    We may be unable to obtain the drilling rigs or support
    services necessary for our drilling and development programs in
    a timely manner or at acceptable rates.  In
    periods of increased drilling activity resulting from high
    commodity prices, demand exceeds availability for drilling rigs,
    drilling vessels, dive boats, supply boats and experienced
    personnel. The market for oilfield services is currently very
    competitive. This may lead to difficulty and delays in
    consistently obtaining services and equipment from vendors,
    obtaining drilling rigs and other equipment at acceptable rates,
    and scheduling equipment fabrication at factories and
    fabrication yards. This, in turn, may lead to projects being
    delayed or experiencing increased costs.


 


    The oil and gas exploration and production industry is
    very competitive, and some of our exploration and production
    competitors have greater financial and other resources than we
    do.  The oil and gas business is highly
    competitive in the search for and acquisition of reserves. Our
    competitors include major oil and gas companies, independent oil
    and gas companies, financial buyers and individual producers.
    Some of our competitors may have greater and more diverse
    resources than we do. Recently, higher commodity prices and
    stiff competition for acquisitions have significantly increased
    the cost of available properties.


 


    We may be subject to risks in connection with
    acquisitions.  The successful acquisition of
    producing properties requires an assessment of several factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    recoverable reserves;




 



     
        • 

    
    future oil and gas prices and their appropriate differentials;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    potential environmental and other liabilities.





 


    The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In
    connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the
    subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent
    with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing
    or potential problems nor will it permit us to become
    sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their
    deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be
    performed on every platform or well, and structural and
    environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when
    an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified,
    the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective
    contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We
    often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for
    environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an “as
    is” basis.


 


    Drilling is a high-risk activity.  Our
    future success will depend on the success of our drilling
    programs. In addition to the numerous operating risks described
    in more detail below, these activities involve the risk that no
    commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be
    encountered. In addition, we often are uncertain as to the
    future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing
    wells. Furthermore, our drilling operations may be curtailed,
    delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the
    delivery of equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents; and




 



     
        • 

    
    compliance with governmental requirements.





 


    The oil and gas business involves many operating risks
    that can cause substantial losses; insurance may not protect us
    against all these risks.  These risks include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    fires;




 



     
        • 

    
    explosions;




 



     
        • 

    
    blow-outs;






    
    7



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, formation water or drilling
    fluids;




 



     
        • 

    
    natural disasters;




 



     
        • 

    
    pipe or cement failures;




 



     
        • 

    
    casing collapses;




 



     
        • 

    
    embedded oilfield drilling and service tools;




 



     
        • 

    
    abnormally pressured formations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks,
    pipeline ruptures, discharges of toxic gases and build up of
    naturally occurring radioactive materials.





 


    If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses
    as a result of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    injury or loss of life;




 



     
        • 

    
    severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources and
    equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    pollution and other environmental damage;




 



     
        • 

    
    investigatory and
    clean-up
    responsibilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory investigation and penalties;




 



     
        • 

    
    suspension of our operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    repairs to resume operations.





 


    If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct
    operations could be adversely affected.


 


    Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks,
    such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes
    or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can and
    have caused substantial damage to facilities and interrupt
    production. Our operations in the Gulf of Mexico are dependent
    upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines,
    natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities. Any
    significant change affecting these infrastructure facilities
    could materially harm our business. We deliver crude oil and
    natural gas through gathering systems and pipelines that we do
    not own. These facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to
    adverse weather conditions or may not be available to us in the
    future. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities or
    experience reductions in revenue that could reduce or eliminate
    the funds available for our exploration and development programs
    and acquisitions, or result in the loss of properties.


 


    We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these
    potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance
    if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive
    relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and
    environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. As a
    result of the damage caused by hurricanes in 2005, insurance
    coverage for these types of storms is limited. Where available,
    the cost of this insurance coverage may be excessive relative to
    the risks presented.


 


    Exploration in deepwater involves greater operating and
    financial risks than exploration at shallower
    depths.  These risks could result in
    substantial losses. Deepwater drilling and operations require
    the application of recently developed technologies and involve a
    higher risk of mechanical failure. We will likely experience
    significantly higher drilling costs in connection with the
    deepwater wells that we drill. In addition, much of the
    deepwater play lacks the physical and oilfield service
    infrastructure present in shallower waters. As a result,
    development of a deepwater discovery may be a lengthy process
    and require substantial capital investment, resulting in
    significant financial and operating risks.


 


    In addition, we may not serve as the operator of significant
    projects in which we invest. As a result, we may have limited
    ability to exercise influence over operations related to these
    projects or their associated costs. Our dependence on the
    operator and other working interest owners for these deepwater
    projects and our limited ability to influence operations and
    associated costs could prevent the realization of our targeted
    returns



    
    8



Table of Contents




    on capital. The success and timing of drilling and development
    activities on properties operated by others therefore depend
    upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our
    control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the timing and amount of capital expenditures;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of suitable offshore drilling rigs, drilling
    equipment, support vessels, production and transportation
    infrastructure and qualified operating personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    the operator’s expertise and financial resources;




 



     
        • 

    
    approval of other participants in drilling wells; and




 



     
        • 

    
    selection of technology.





 


    We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost,
    manner or feasibility of doing
    business.  Exploration and development and the
    production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive
    federal, state, local and international regulation. We may be
    required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental
    and other governmental regulations. Matters subject to
    regulation include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the amounts and type of substances and materials that may be
    released into the environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    reports and permits concerning exploration, drilling, production
    and other operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the spacing of wells;




 



     
        • 

    
    unitization and pooling of properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    calculating royalties on oil and gas produced under federal and
    state leases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    taxation.





 


    Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries,
    property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials,
    remediation and
    clean-up
    costs, natural resource damages and other environmental damages.
    We could also be required to install expensive pollution control
    measures or limit or cease activities on lands located within
    wilderness, wetlands or other environmentally or politically
    sensitive areas. Failure to comply with these laws also may
    result in the suspension or termination of our operations and
    subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties as
    well as the imposition of corrective action orders. Moreover,
    these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our
    costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions,
    terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.


 


    We have risks associated with our foreign
    operations.  We currently have international
    activities and we continue to evaluate and pursue new
    opportunities for international expansion in select areas.
    Ownership of property interests and production operations in
    areas outside the United States is subject to the various risks
    inherent in foreign operations. These risks may include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of
    expropriation, nationalization, war or insurrection;



 



     
        • 

    
    increases in taxes and governmental royalties;




 



     
        • 

    
    renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities and
    quasi-governmental agencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in laws and policies governing operations of
    foreign-based companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    labor problems; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other uncertainties arising out of foreign government
    sovereignty over our international operations.





 


    Our international operations also may be adversely affected by
    the laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign
    trade, taxation and investment. In addition, if a dispute arises
    with respect to our foreign operations, we may be subject to the
    exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be
    successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of
    the courts of the United States.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder
    rights plan and some of our arrangements with employees contain
    provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of
    control of our company.  Our stockholder
    rights plan, together with certain provisions of our certificate
    of incorporation and bylaws, may make it more difficult to
    effect a change of control of our company, to acquire us or to
    replace incumbent management. In addition, our change of control
    severance plan and agreements, our omnibus stock plans and our
    incentive compensation plan contain provisions that provide for
    severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits,
    including accelerated vesting of restricted stock and options,
    upon a change of control. These provisions could discourage or
    prevent a change of control or reduce the price our stockholders
    receive in an acquisition of our company.






 




    
    



    
    Item 1B