ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


NiSource Inc.


There are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on NiSource’s operating results,
financial condition and cash flows. New risks may emerge at any time, and NiSource cannot predict
those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. Each of the
risks described below could adversely impact the value of NiSource’s securities.


NiSource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition.


NiSource had total consolidated indebtedness of $7,352.8 million outstanding as of December 31,
2010. The substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. For example,
it could:







     
    •
     
    limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing
additional funds;



     

     
    •
     
    reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital
expenditures and other general corporate purposes;



     

     
    •
     
    limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the
industries in which the company operates;



     

     
    •
     
    lead parties with whom NiSource does business to require additional credit support, such
as letters of credit, in order for NiSource to transact such business;



     

     
    •
     
    place NiSource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less
leveraged;



     

     
    •
     
    increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and



     

     
    •
     
    limit the ability of the
company to execute on its growth strategy, which is dependent
upon access to capital to fund its substantial investment program.




Some of NiSource’s debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios
and cross-default provisions. NiSource’s failure to comply with any of these covenants could
result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of
outstanding debt obligations. Additionally, a drop in NiSource’s credit rating could adversely
impact the cost for NiSource to issue new debt securities.


A drop in NiSource’s credit rating could adversely impact NiSource’s liquidity.


On December 14, 2010, Fitch affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB-, and the
existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Fitch’s outlook for NiSource and all of its
subsidiaries is stable. On November 19, 2010, Moody’s Investors Service affirmed the senior
unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries.
Moody’s outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is
stable. On February 24, 2011, Standard
& Poor’s affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource and its subsidiaries at BBB-. Standard
& Poor’s outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Although all ratings continue
to be investment grade, a downgrade by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch would result in a rating
that is below investment grade.


Certain NiSource affiliates have agreements that contain “ratings triggers” that require increased
collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s. The additional collateral that would be required in the
event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $18.1 million.
In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain “adequate
assurance” or “material adverse change” provisions that could necessitate additional credit support
such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. In addition, under Northern
Indiana’s trade receivables sales program, an event of termination occurs if Northern Indiana’s
debt rating is withdrawn by either Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s, or falls below BB or Ba2 at either
Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s, respectively. Likewise, under Columbia of Ohio’s and Columbia of
Pennsylvania’s trade receivables sales programs, an event of termination occurs if NiSource’s debt
rating is withdrawn by either Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s, or falls below BB- or Ba3 at either
Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s, respectively.


Additionally, as a result of NiSource’s participation in certain derivative activities, a credit
downgrade could cause NiSource to be required to post substantial collateral in support of past and
current transactions. These collateral requirements, combined with other potential negative effects
on NiSource’s liquidity in the event of a credit downgrade below an investment grade rating, could
have a material adverse effect on earnings potential and cash





9




 






ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


NiSource Inc.


flows. Lastly, a credit downgrade could adversely affect the availability and cost of capital
needed to fund the growth investments which are a central element of the company’s long-term
business strategy.


NiSource may not be able to execute its growth strategy as planned.


Because of changes in the business or regulatory environment, NiSource may not be able to execute
its four-part business plan as intended. NiSource’s commercial and regulatory initiatives may not
achieve planned results; levels of commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and
storage business may be less than its plan has anticipated; and the actual results of NiSource’s
financial management of the balance sheet, and process and expense management could deviate
materially from planned outcomes.


Adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net revenue
growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and
liquidity needs.


While the national economy is experiencing some recovery from the recent downturn, NiSource cannot
predict how robust the recovery will be or whether or not it will be sustained.


Continued sluggishness in the economy impacting NiSource’s operating jurisdictions could adversely
impact NiSource’s ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which
could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. An increase in the interest rates
NiSource pays would adversely affect future net income and cash flows. In addition, NiSource
depends on debt to finance its operations, including both working capital and capital expenditures,
and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. The slow rate of the current
economic recovery and tightened credit markets, coupled with NiSource’s credit ratings, could
impact NiSource’s ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at a reasonable cost.
Refer to Note 16, “Long-Term Debt,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt.


Capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which
then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings.


The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to
satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
NiSource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts.
These assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below
NiSource’s projected rates of return. A decline in the market value of assets may increase the
funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement
benefit plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit
plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase
funding requirements. Further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these
benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant
demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions.
Ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension expense could negatively impact
NiSource’s results of operations and financial position.




The majority of NiSource’s net revenues is subject to economic regulation and is exposed to the
impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings.


Virtually all of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal
or state level. As such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to
regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. These rate reviews determine the
energy rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. NiSource’s financial results are
dependent on more frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. For
example, the outcome of the currently pending 2010 electric rate case could have a material effect
on NiSource’s financial results. Additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in
environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates
will be contingent on regulatory approval.



As a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain of the markets where the
regulated businesses conduct operations, NiSource may compete with independent marketers for
customers. This competition exposes NiSource to the risk that certain stranded costs may not be
recoverable and may affect results of NiSource’s growth strategy and cash flows.


NiSource’s costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance
with future environmental laws and the recognition of environmental liabilities could impact cash
flow and profitability.


NiSource’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental
requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges,
remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste, solid waste, and coal combustion
residuals. Compliance with these legal obligations requires NiSource to make expenditures for
installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees
and permits at many of NiSource’s facilities. These expenditures are significant, and NiSource
expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. Furthermore, if NiSource’s
subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the
environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond NiSource’s control, that failure or harm
may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against NiSource and its
subsidiaries.





10




 






ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


NiSource Inc.


 
Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to
protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to NiSource’s subsidiaries. Revised or
additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating
restrictions on NiSource’s facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully
recoverable from customers and would, therefore, reduce net income. Moreover, such costs could
materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of NiSource’s facilities.


Because NiSource operations deal with natural gas and coal fossil fuels, emissions of GHGs are an
expected aspect of the business. While NiSource attempts to reduce GHG emissions through
efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, GHG emissions cannot be entirely
eliminated. The current administration has made it clear that they are focused on
reducing GHG emissions, through legislation and/or regulation. Imposing statutory or regulatory
restrictions and/or costs on GHG emissions could increase NiSource’s cost of producing energy,
which could impact customer demand or NiSource’s profitability. Compliance costs associated with
these requirements could also affect NiSource’s cash flow. The cost impact of any new or amended
GHG legislation or regulations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be
determined at this time.


Even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known, the original estimates
for cleanup and environmental capital projects can differ materially from the amount ultimately
expended. The actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of
contamination, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the
availability of cost recovery from customers. Changes in costs could affect NiSource’s financial
position and cash flows.


A significant portion of the gas and electricity NiSource sells is used by residential and
commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. Accordingly, the operating results
fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity.


Energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. Forecasts of energy sales are based on normal
weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal
weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. Additionally, residential
usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity
costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting
NiSource’s financial results. Lastly, residential and commercial customers’ usage has shown to be
sensitive to economic conditions and the impact of macro-economic drivers such as unemployment,
consumption and consumer confidence, which could also affect NiSource’s financial results.


NiSource’s business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries.


Business operations throughout NiSource’s service territories have been and may continue to be
adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. In
particular, sales to large industrial customers may be impacted by economic downturns. The U.S.
manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international
competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for their products.




11




 






ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


NiSource Inc.




Fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs may have a
negative impact on NiSource’s financial results.


NiSource’s electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and its gas
distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas they deliver. These energy
commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation
costs. Hedging activities have been deployed in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply
prices and NiSource relies on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order
to fully recover the costs incurred in operations. However, while NiSource has historically been
successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that
such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. Additionally, increased gas
and electricity costs could result in reduced demand from customers as a result of increased
conservation activities.


NiSource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services,
and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating
agreements.


NiSource’s extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy, involves considerable
judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty’s financial condition, credit
history and other factors. Credit risk exposure is monitored by obtaining credit reports and
updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status
of its banking partners and other counterparties through the use of market-based metrics such as
credit default swap pricing levels, and also through traditional credit ratings provided by the
major credit rating agencies. Continued adverse economic conditions could increase credit risk and
could result in a material adverse effect on NiSource.


NiSource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. An impairment of goodwill
or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings.


In accordance with GAAP, NiSource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its
definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate
the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill would also be tested for impairment when
factors, examples of which include, reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price
or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
NiSource would be required to record a charge in the financial statements during the period in
which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively
impacting the results of operations. A significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio
covenant under the five-year revolving credit facility. This covenant requires NiSource to
maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. A similar covenant in the 2005
private placement note purchase agreement requires NiSource to maintain a debt to capitalization
ratio that does not exceed 75%.


Changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect NiSource’s
financial results.


NiSource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local
levels where it does business. Legislation or regulation which could affect NiSource’s tax burden
could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. NiSource cannot predict the timing or
extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on the financial
results. Additionally, NiSource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for
these tax obligations. However, a challenge by a taxing authority, NiSource’s ability to utilize
tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related
assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates.








12




 






ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


NiSource Inc.


Changes in accounting principles may adversely affect NiSource’s financial results.


Future changes in accounting rules, such as IFRS, and associated changes in regulatory accounting
may negatively impact the way NiSource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These
changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial results.


Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs.



Our gas distribution and storage activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks,
such as leaks,  accidents, including third party damages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial
financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of
human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of our operations, which in turn
could lead to substantial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against
some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas,
including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages
resulting from these risks. The occurrence of  any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely
affect our financial position and results of operations.

Aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations that could negatively
impact NiSource’s financial results.


NiSource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. The age of these assets may result
in a higher level of maintenance costs and may be susceptible to unscheduled outages despite
diligent efforts by NiSource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled
maintenance and capital investment. The failure to operate these assets as desired could result in
NiSource’s inability to meet firm service obligations, adversely impact revenues, and could result
in increased expenses, which may not be fully recoverable from customers.


Climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt
operations and reduce the ability to service customers.


A disruption or failure of natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within
electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane,
tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales,
providing services, or performing other critical functions. NiSource has experienced disruptions
in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. The cost, availability
and sufficiency of insurance for these risks could adversely affect NiSource’s results of
operations, financial position and cash flows.


There is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure
associated with heat and extreme weather conditions. Climate change and the costs that may be
associated with its impacts have the potential to affect NiSource’s business in many ways,
including increasing the cost NiSource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the
demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather
patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which NiSource operates.


Growing NiSource’s business by constructing new pipelines and other facilities subjects NiSource to
construction risks and natural gas supply risks.


NiSource Gas Transmission & Storage Operations continues to complete and advance customer-driven
growth projects across its system, primarily surrounding the Marcellus Shale production area in the
states of Pennsylvania and West Virginia. These growth projects may include constructing or
purchasing pipelines and treatment and processing facilities, which subjects NiSource to
construction risks and risks that gas supplies will not be available. If NiSource undertakes these
projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. NiSource
may construct or purchase these projects to capture anticipated future growth in production in the
region, which may not materialize, and the construction may occur over an extended period of time,
and NiSource will not receive material increases in revenue and cash flows until after the
completion of the project. NiSource competes for these projects with companies of varying size and
financial capabilities, including some that may have advantages competing for natural gas and liquid gas
supplies, as well as acquisitions and other business opportunities.


Sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact NiSource’s operations.


NiSource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially
extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time.
Despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on NiSource’s
infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the company or
otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. Although NiSource
makes every effort to plan for weather related contingencies, adverse weather may affect its
ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual
obligations. The company endeavors to minimize such service disruptions, but may not be able to
avoid them altogether.






13




 






ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


NiSource Inc.


Growing competition in the gas transportation industry could result in the failure by customers to
renew existing contracts.


As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and the shift in natural gas
production areas, end users and LDCs may be reluctant to enter into long-term service contracts.
The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with NiSource’s customers at rates sufficient to
maintain current or projected revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its
control, including competition from other pipelines, gatherers, the proximity of supplies to the
markets, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas. The inability of NiSource to renew, or
replace its current contracts as they expire and respond appropriately to changing market
conditions could materially impact its financial results.






ITEM 1B