ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



NiSource Inc.



There are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on NiSource’s operating results,
financial condition and cash flows. New risks may emerge at any time, and NiSource cannot predict
those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. Each of the
risks described below could adversely impact the value of NiSource’s securities.


NiSource has substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect its financial condition.



NiSource has a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding in part as a result of the
acquisition of Columbia and Bay State. NiSource had total consolidated indebtedness of $6,689.3
million outstanding as of December 31, 2007. The substantial indebtedness could have important
consequences to investors. For example, it could:






     
    •
     
    limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing
additional funds;



     

     
    •
     
    reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital
expenditures and other general corporate purposes;



     

     
    •
     
    limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the
industries in which the company operates;



     

     
    •
     
    lead parties with whom NiSource does business to require additional credit support, such
as letters of credit, in order for NiSource to transact such business;



     

     
    •
     
    place NiSource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less
leveraged; and



     

     
    •
     
    increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions.





Some of NiSource’s debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios
and cross-default provisions. NiSource’s failure to comply with any of these covenants could
result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of
outstanding debt obligations. Additionally, a drop in NiSource’s credit rating could adversely
impact the cost for NiSource to issue new debt securities.


On December 18, 2007, Standard and Poor’s lowered its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource and its
subsidiaries to BBB-. Standard and Poor’s outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is
stable. On December 3, 2007, Moody’s Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for
NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moody’s changed its ratings
outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries to negative from stable. On July 10, 2007, Fitch Ratings
affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB+ ratings for Northern Indiana.
Fitch’s outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Although all ratings continue
to be investment grade, an additional downgrade by Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s would result in a
rating that is below investment grade.


Certain NiSource affiliates have agreements that contain “ratings triggers” that require increased
collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB- by
Standard and Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the
ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $40 million. In addition to agreements with
ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain “adequate assurance” or “material adverse
change” provisions that could result in additional credit support such as letters of credit and
cash collateral to transact business.


NiSource’s costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance
with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could impact cash
flow and profitability.


NiSource’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental
requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges,
remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste and solid waste. Compliance with
these legal requirements requires NiSource to commit significant expenditures for installation of
pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at
many of NiSource’s facilities. These expenditures are significant, and NiSource expects that they
will continue to be significant in the future.


If NiSource’s subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to
the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond NiSource’s control, that failure or
harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against NiSource and
its subsidiaries. In September 2004, the EPA issued


10




 



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued)



NiSource Inc.



an NOV to Northern Indiana alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the Clean Air
Act. An adverse outcome in this matter could require capital expenditures beyond the EPA
requirements that cannot be determined at this time and could require payment of substantial
penalties.



Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised, and new laws and regulations seeking to
protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to NiSource’s subsidiaries. Revised or
additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating
restrictions on NiSource’s facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully
recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce net income. The cost impact of any new or
amended legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at
this time.


A significant portion of the gas and electricity NiSource sells is used by residential and
commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. Accordingly, the operating results
fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity.


Energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. Forecasts of energy sales are based on normal
weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal
weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. Additionally, residential
usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity
costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting
NiSource’s financial results.


NiSource’s electric operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries.



Electric operations in northern Indiana have been and may continue to be adversely affected by
events in the steel and steel related industries. In particular, sales to large industrial
customers within these steel and steel related industries may be impacted by economic downturns.
The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international
competition, increased costs, and fluctuating demand for their products.


The majority of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the
impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings.


Virtually all of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal
or state level. As such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to
regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. These rate reviews determine the
energy rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. As part of a settlement reached in
other regulatory proceedings, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case with
the IURC on or before July 1, 2008. Columbia of Ohio filed a base rate case on March 3, 2008.
Columbia of Pennsylvania filed a base rate case on January 28, 2008. Both companies expect final
resolution of the cases to occur in 2008. The outcome for any rate case could have a material
effect on NiSource’s financial results.


NiSource recently restructured its outsourcing agreement with IBM, which included transitioning
many of the functions which had been outsourced. Many associated changes in systems and personnel
are being made, which may increase operational and control risks during transition and may have an
impact on the business and its financial condition.


Under NiSource’s restructured agreement with IBM, most functions, other than information
technology, which had been outsourced to IBM will be transitioned back to NiSource or other third
party providers. There will be costs incurred to undertake this transition and there could be a
risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures during the transition phase.


11




 



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued)



NiSource Inc.



NiSource’s Whiting Clean Energy project has generated losses and may be sold at a substantial
discount to the value of the facility on NiSource’s balance sheet.


NiSource owns and operates a merchant energy facility, Whiting Clean Energy, at BP’s Whiting,
Indiana refinery. This facility uses natural gas to generate electricity for sale in the wholesale
markets and to generate steam for industrial use by BP’s refinery. The profitability of this
facility is dependant upon the market prices for electricity and natural gas and regional load
dispatch patterns. On July 27, 2007, Whiting Clean Energy submitted a proposal in response to the
Northern Indiana-issued RFP “2008 Combined Cycle Request for Proposals.” Whiting Clean Energy was
notified during October 2007 that its proposal to sell its facility was selected by Northern
Indiana based on a purchase price of $210 million. However, on December 22, 2007, BP indicated it
would exercise a contractual right of first refusal to purchase the Whiting Clean Energy facility.
NiSource is in discussions with BP regarding several aspects of the offer. The carrying amount of
the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $270 million.


ITEM 1B