ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.NiSource’s operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. NiSource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition.NiSource had total consolidated indebtedness of  $6,949.6 million outstanding as of December 31, 2015. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:•limit the Company’s ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds;•reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;•limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which it operates;•lead parties with whom NiSource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for NiSource to transact such business;•place NiSource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged;•increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and•limit the ability of the Company to execute on its growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund its substantial investment program.Some of NiSource’s debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. NiSource’s failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. A drop in NiSource’s credit rating could adversely impact NiSource’s liquidity. The credit rating agencies periodically review the Company’s ratings, taking into account factors such as our capital structure and earnings profile.  In 2015, Moody’s affirmed the NiSource senior unsecured rating of Baa2 and its commercial paper rating of P-2, with stable outlooks.  Moody’s also affirmed NIPSCO’s Baa1 rating and Columbia Gas of Massachusetts’s Baa2 rating, with stable outlooks.  In 2015, Standard & Poor’s raised the senior unsecured ratings of NiSource and its subsidiaries to BBB+ and NiSource’s commercial paper rating to A-2, with stable outlooks.  In 2015, Fitch affirmed the NiSource senior unsecured rating of BBB-, commercial paper rating of F3 and the existing ratings of its other rated subsidiaries.  Fitch revised its outlook to positive. The Company is committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings, however, there is no assurance we will be able to do so in the future.  The Company’s credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant.    Any negative rating action could adversely affect our ability to access capital at rates and on terms that are attractive.  A negative rating action could also adversely impact our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners.  Certain NiSource subsidiaries have agreements that contain “ratings triggers” that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are below investment grade.  These agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of power.  As of December 31, 2015 the collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $26.9 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain “adequate assurance” or “material adverse change” provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business.NiSource may not be able to execute its business plan or growth strategy, including utility infrastructure investments.Business or regulatory conditions may result in NiSource not being  able to execute its business plan or growth strategy, including identified, planned and other utility infrastructure investments. NiSource’s customer and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results. Utility infrastructure investments may not materialize, may cease to be achievable or economically viable and may not be successfully completed.  Natural gas  may cease to be viewed as an economically and ecologically attractive fuel.  Any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects.8Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.Adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and liquidity needs.While the national economy is experiencing modest growth, NiSource cannot predict how robust future growth will be or whether or not it will be sustained. Deteriorating or sluggish economic conditions in NiSource’s operating jurisdictions could adversely impact NiSource’s ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. The Company relies on access to the capital markets to finance our liquidity and long-term capital requirements.  Market turmoil could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at reasonable borrowing costs and terms.  Reduced access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could reduce future net income and cash flows.  Refer to Note 14, “Long-Term Debt,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt.Capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings.The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. NiSource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below NiSource’s projected rates of return. A decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. Further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. Ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension or other postretirement benefit plan expense could negatively impact NiSource’s results of operations and financial position.The majority of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings.Most of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. As such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. These rate reviews determine the rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. NiSource’s financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. Additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval.As a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, NiSource may compete with independent marketers for customers. This competition exposes NiSource to the risk that certain stranded costs may not be recoverable and may affect results of NiSource’s growth strategy and financial position.NiSource’s costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the costs associated with environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability.NiSource is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste, solid waste, and coal combustion residuals. Compliance with these legal obligations requires NiSource to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of NiSource’s facilities. These expenditures are significant, and NiSource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. Furthermore, if NiSource fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations or is found to have caused damage to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond NiSource’s control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against NiSource.Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to increase environmental regulation of the energy industry may be adopted or become applicable to NiSource. Revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on NiSource’s facilities or increased compliance costs, 9Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would, therefore, reduce net income. Moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of NiSource’s facilities.Even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known or anticipated, the original cost estimates for cleanup and environmental capital projects can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. The actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of impact, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery.  Changes in costs and the ability to recover under regulatory mechanisms could affect NiSource’s financial position, operating results and cash flows.  Because NiSource operates fossil fuel facilities, emissions of GHGs are an expected aspect of the business. While NiSource continues to reduce GHG emissions through efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, GHG emissions cannot be eliminated. The EPA has made clear that it is focused on reducing GHG emissions from the energy industry. On October 18, 2015, the EPA finalized its CPP, which regulates greenhouse gas emissions from coal and natural gas electric generating units. The CPP is subject to various legal challenges, but, if the CPP survives these challenges, the compliance costs associated with CPP requirements could impact cash flow.  In addition, the CPP could increase NiSource’s cost of producing energy, which may impact customer demand and/or NiSource’s profitability.  The CPP requires states (or in some cases the EPA) to develop individualized plans to meet the CPP emission reduction requirements.  Depending on the array of programs chosen by the State of Indiana or EPA, NiSource’s CPP compliance costs could be substantial. It is also possible that additional future GHG legislation and/or regulation could materially impact NiSource.  The cost impact of any new and/or amended GHG legislation or regulations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time.A significant portion of the gas and electricity NiSource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. Accordingly, fluctuations in weather, gas and electricity commodity costs and economic conditions impact demand of our customers and our operating results.Energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. Forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. Additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage is sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting NiSource’s financial results. Lastly, residential and commercial customers’ usage is sensitive to economic conditions and factors such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence.  Therefore, prevailing economic conditions may affect NiSource’s financial results.NiSource’s business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries.Business operations throughout NiSource’s service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. In particular, sales to large industrial customers, such as those in the steel, oil refining, industrial gas and related industries, may be impacted by economic downturns. The U.S. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products.Fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs may have a negative impact on NiSource’s financial results.NiSource’s electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and its gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas they deliver. These energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. From time to time, NiSource has used hedging in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices. NiSource relies on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the commodity costs incurred in operations. However, while NiSource has historically been successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner.NiSource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements.NiSource’s extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty’s financial condition, credit history and other factors. NiSource monitors its credit risk exposure by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of its banking partners and other counterparties by reference to market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing 10Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.levels, and to traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. Adverse economic conditions could result in an increase in defaults by customers, suppliers and counterparties.NiSource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. An impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings and negatively impact NiSource's compliance with certain covenants under financing agreements.In accordance with GAAP, NiSource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill also is tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. NiSource would be required to record a charge in its financial statements for the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. A significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. NiSource is subject to a financial covenant under its five-year revolving credit facility, which requires NiSource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. A similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires NiSource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. As of December 31, 2015, the ratio was 64%.Changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect NiSource’s financial results.NiSource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where it does business. Legislation or regulation which could affect NiSource’s tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. NiSource cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on the financial results. Additionally, NiSource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these tax obligations. However, a challenge by a taxing authority, NiSource’s ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates.Changes in accounting principles may adversely affect NiSource’s financial results.Future changes in accounting rules and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way NiSource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.Distribution of natural gas, and the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity involve numerous risks that may result in incidents and other operating risks and costs.NiSource's gas distribution and transmission activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as gas leaks, downed power lines, incidents, including third-party damages, large scale outages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses.  In addition, these risks could result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of its operations, adverse regulatory rulings and reputational harm, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to NiSource. The location of pipeline facilities, or generation, transmission, substation and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from such events.  The occurrence of such events could adversely affect NiSource's financial position and results of operations.  In accordance with customary industry practice, NiSource maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. Aging infrastructure may lead to disruptions in operations and increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, all of which could negatively impact NiSource’s financial results.NiSource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. The age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs and unscheduled outages despite efforts by NiSource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. The failure to operate these assets as desired could result in incidents and in NiSource’s inability to meet firm service obligations, adversely impacting revenues, and could also result in increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, which, if not fully recovered from customers, could negatively impact NiSource's financial results.11Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.The impacts of climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers.A disruption or failure of natural gas distribution systems, or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems, in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. NiSource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. The occurrence of such events could adversely affect NiSource's financial position and results of operations.  In accordance with customary industry practice, NiSource maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. There is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure.  Such risks include heat stresses to power lines, storms that damage infrastructure, lake and sea level changes that damage the manner in which services are currently provided, droughts or other stresses on water used to supply services, and other extreme weather conditions. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect NiSource’s business in many ways, including increasing the cost NiSource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which NiSource operates.A cyber-attack on any of NiSource's or certain third-party computer systems upon which NiSource relies may adversely affect its ability to operate.NiSource is reliant on technology to run its businesses, which are dependent upon financial and operational computer systems to process critical information necessary to conduct various elements of its business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, operation of its gas pipeline facilities and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions to regulators, investors and other stakeholders. Any failure of NiSource’s computer systems, or those of its customers, suppliers or others with whom it does business, could materially disrupt NiSource’s ability to operate its business and could result in a financial loss and possibly do harm to NiSource’s reputation.Additionally, NiSource's information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources with the apparent aim to breach NiSource's cyber-defenses. Although NiSource attempts to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and works through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess NiSource's countermeasures, a security breach of NiSource's information systems could (i) impact the reliability of NiSource's generation, transmission and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact NiSource's compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject NiSource to harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to NiSource's customers or employees, and/or (iii) impact NiSource's ability to manage NiSource's businesses.NiSource's capital projects and programs subject the Company to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks.NiSource is engaged in an intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization program to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility.  NIPSCO also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including environmental improvements to its electric generating stations, as well as the construction of new transmission facilities.  As NiSource undertakes these projects and programs, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. Additionally, NiSource may construct or purchase some of these projects and programs to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. NiSource also may not receive material increases in revenue and cash flows until after the completion of the projects and programs.Sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact NiSource’s operations.NiSource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. Despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on NiSource’s infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the Company or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. Further, adverse weather may affect NiSource’s ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations, including by causing service disruptions.12Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.NiSource is a holding company and is dependent on cash generated by subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock.NiSource is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. Substantially all of NiSource’s consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. Accordingly, NiSource’s ability to meet its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. In the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to NiSource, NiSource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected.Following the Separation, all of the entities formerly included in NiSource's Columbia Pipeline Group Operations segment have been separated from NiSource and are held by a separate publicly traded company (CPG). The related assets are no longer held by subsidiaries of NiSource, which may negatively affect NiSource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends.The Separation may not achieve the intended benefits and may result in significant tax liabilities.NiSource cannot predict with certainty when the benefits expected from the Separation will occur or the extent to which they will be achieved, if at all. Furthermore, there are various uncertainties and risks relating to the process of the Separation that could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including disruption of our operations and impairment of our relationship with regulators, key personnel, customers and vendors. As a result of the completion of the Separation, NiSource faces new and unique risks, including having fewer assets, reduced financial resources and less diversification of revenue sources.  The Separation was conditioned on the receipt by NiSource of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of CPG shares to NiSource stockholders is expected to qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  Even though NiSource has received such an opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable.  Both NiSource and its stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if taxing authorities conclude the distribution is taxable.ITEM 1B