ITEM 1A.
     
    RISK FACTORS




NiSource Inc.



There are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on NiSource’s operating results,
financial condition and cash flows. New risks may emerge at any time, and NiSource cannot predict
those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. Each of the
risks described below could adversely impact the value of NiSource’s securities.



NiSource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition.



NiSource has a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding, in part, as a result of the
acquisitions of Columbia and Bay State. NiSource had total consolidated indebtedness of $6,787.4
million outstanding as of December 31, 2009. The substantial indebtedness could have important
consequences to investors. For example, it could:







     
    •
     
    limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing
additional funds;



     

     
    •
     
    reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital
expenditures and other general corporate purposes;



     

     
    •
     
    limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the
industries in which the company operates;



     

     
    •
     
    lead parties with whom NiSource does business to require additional credit support, such
as letters of credit, in order for NiSource to transact such business;



     

     
    •
     
    place NiSource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less
leveraged; 



     

     
    •
     
    increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and
industry conditions; and




     

     
    •
     
    limit the ability of the Company to execute on its growth
strategy, which is dependant upon access to capital to fund its
substantial investment program.





Some of NiSource’s debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios
and cross-default provisions. NiSource’s failure to comply with any of these covenants could
result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of
outstanding debt obligations. Additionally, a drop in NiSource’s credit rating could adversely
impact the cost for NiSource to issue new debt securities.



A drop in NiSource’s credit rating could adversely impact NiSource’s liquidity.



On December 15, 2009, Fitch affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB-, and the
existing ratings of all other rated subsidiaries. Fitch’s outlook for NiSource and all of its
rated subsidiaries is stable. On November 24, 2009, Moody’s Investors Service affirmed the senior
unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other rated subsidiaries,
and revised the outlook to stable from negative. On March 5, 2009, Standard and Poor’s affirmed
its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource and its rated subsidiaries at BBB-, and revised the
outlook to stable from negative. Although all ratings continue to be investment grade, a
downgrade by Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch would result in a rating that is below
investment grade.



Certain NiSource affiliates have agreements that contain “ratings triggers” that require increased
collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB- by
Standard and Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s. The additional collateral that would be required in the
event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $24 million.
In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain “adequate
assurance” or “material adverse change” provisions that could necessitate additional credit support
such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. In addition, under Northern
Indiana’s trade receivables sales program, it is an event of termination if Northern Indiana’s debt
rating is withdrawn by either Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s or falls below BB, or Ba2 at either
Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s, respectively. Likewise, under Columbia of Ohio’s trade receivables
sales program, it is an event of termination if NiSource’s debt rating is withdrawn by either
Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s or falls below BB- or Ba3 at either Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s,
respectively.



Additionally, as a result of NiSource’s participation in certain derivative activities, a credit
downgrade could cause NiSource to be required to post substantial collateral in support of past and
current operations. These collateral requirements, combined with other potential negative effects
on NiSource’s liquidity in the event of a credit downgrade below an investment grade rating, could
have a material adverse effect on earnings potential and cash flows.


Lastly, a
credit downgrade could adversely affect the availability and cost of
capital needed to fund the growth investments which are a central
element of the Company’s long-term business strategy.



9




 









    
    
    


    ITEM 1A.
     
    RISK FACTORS (continued)




NiSource Inc.



NiSource may not be able to execute its growth strategy as planned.



Because of changes in the business environment and business strategy, NiSource may not be able to
execute its four-part business plan as intended. Our commercial and regulatory initiatives may not
achieve planned results; levels of commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and
storage business may be less than our plan has anticipated; and the actual results of our financial
management of the balance sheet, and process and expense management could deviate materially from
planned outcomes.



Continued adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net
revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital
resources and liquidity needs.



The credit markets and the general economy have been experiencing a period of large-scale turmoil
and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial
institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government.
While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it may have an adverse material
effect on NiSource.



A continued decline in the economy impacting NiSource’s operating jurisdictions could adversely
affect NiSource’s ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which
could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. An increase in the interest rates
NiSource pays would adversely affect future net income and cash flows. In addition, NiSource
depends on debt to finance its operations, including both working capital and capital expenditures,
and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. The current economic downturn and
tightening of access to credit markets, coupled with NiSource’s current credit ratings, could
impact NiSource’s ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at a reasonable cost. Refer
to Note 16, “Long-Term Debt,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information
related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt.



Capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which
then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings.



The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to
satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
NiSource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts.
These assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below
NiSource’s projected rates of return. A decline in the market value of assets may increase the
funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement
benefit plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit
plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase
funding requirements. Further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these
benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant
demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions.
Ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension expense could negatively impact
NiSource’s results of operations and financial position.



NiSource’s costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance
with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could impact cash
flow and profitability.



NiSource’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental
requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges,
remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste and solid waste. Compliance with
these legal obligations requires NiSource to make expenditures for installation of pollution
control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of
NiSource’s facilities. These expenditures are significant, and NiSource expects that they will
continue to be significant in the future.



If NiSource’s subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to
the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond NiSource’s control, that failure or
harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against NiSource and
its subsidiaries. In September 2004, the EPA issued an NOV to Northern Indiana alleging violations
of the new source review provisions of the CAA. An adverse



10




 









    
    
    


    ITEM 1A.
     
    RISK FACTORS (continued)





NiSource Inc.



outcome in this matter could require capital expenditures beyond the EPA requirements that cannot
be determined at this time and could require payment of substantial penalties.



Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to
protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to NiSource’s subsidiaries. Revised or
additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating
restrictions on NiSource’s facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully
recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce net income. The cost impact of any new or
amended legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at
this time.



Because NiSource operations deal with natural gas and coal fossil fuels, emissions of GHGs are an
expected aspect of the business. While NiSource attempts to reduce GHG emissions through
efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, GHG emissions cannot be entirely
eliminated. Future legislative and regulatory programs could significantly restrict emissions of
GHGs or could impose a cost or tax on GHG emissions. Recently, proposals have been developed to
implement state and regional GHG programs, to create federal legislation to limit GHG emissions
(such as the Waxman-Markey bill, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives, and the
Kerry-Boxer draft bill which is currently being debated in the U.S. Senate), and to create national
renewable portfolio standards. In addition, in December 2009, the EPA declared carbon dioxide and
several other GHG to be a danger to public health and welfare, which is the first step towards the
EPA regulating GHG under the CAA. Imposing statutory or regulatory restrictions and/or costs on
GHG emissions could increase NiSource’s cost of producing energy, which could impact customer
demand or NiSource’s profitability. Compliance costs associated with these requirements could also
affect NiSource’s cash flow. The cost impact of any new or amended legislation would depend upon
the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time.



The Federal government continues to show interest in developing regulations covering coal
combustion byproducts. Legislation regulating coal ash pursuant to the Surface Mining Control and
Reclamation Act has been introduced and the EPA is reviewing its previous determination that
Federal regulation of coal ash as a RCRA Subtitle C hazardous waste is not appropriate. The EPA
intends to propose regulation of coal combustion byproducts in early 2010. These proposed
regulations could affect Northern Indiana’s ongoing byproduct reuse programs and could impose
additional requirements on its management of coal ash wastes. Northern Indiana will monitor
developments in this matter and cannot estimate the potential financial impact at this time.



A significant portion of the gas and electricity NiSource sells is used by residential and
commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. Accordingly, the operating results
fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity.



Energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. Forecasts of energy sales are based on normal
weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal
weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. Additionally, residential
usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity
costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting
NiSource’s financial results. Lastly, residential and commercial customers’ usage has shown to be
sensitive to economic conditions and the impact of macro-economic drivers such as unemployment,
consumption and consumer confidence, which could also affect NiSource’s financial results.



NiSource’s business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries.



Business operations throughout NiSource’s service territories have been and may continue to be
adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where we operate. In
particular, sales to large industrial customers may be impacted by economic downturns. The U.S.
manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international
competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for their products.



The majority of NiSource’s net revenues is subject to economic regulation and is exposed to the
impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings.



11




 









    
    
    


    ITEM 1A.
     
    RISK FACTORS (continued)




NiSource Inc.





Virtually
all of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to
economic regulation at either the federal or state level. As such, the net revenues generated
by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority.
 These rate reviews determine the energy rates charged to customers
and directly impact revenues. NiSource’s
financial results are dependent on more frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely
recovery of costs. For example, the outcome of the currently pending electric rate case, and the electric and gas rate
cases anticipated to be filed in 2010, could have a material effect
on NiSource’s financial results. Additionally,
the costs of complying with future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their
recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval.



As a result of efforts to introduce market-based
competition in certain of the markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, NiSource may compete with
independent marketers for customers. This competition exposes NiSource to the risk that certain stranded costs may
not be recoverable and may affect results of NiSource’s growth strategy and cash flows.



Fluctuations in the price or supply of fuel commodities or their related transportation costs may
have a negative impact on our financial results.



Much of the electric generating fleet is dependent on coal. As a result, NiSource’s profitable
operation of these assets is vulnerable to price fluctuations, fuel supply disruptions and
fluctuations in associated transportation costs. Continuing access to natural gas supplies is
also critical to serve utility gas customers. Hedging activities have been deployed in order to
offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices and NiSource relies on regulatory recovery
mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the costs incurred in operations.
However, while NiSource has historically been successful in recovery of costs related to commodity
costs, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates.
Additionally, increased gas and electricity costs could result in reduced demand from customers as
a result of increased conservation activities.



NiSource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services,
and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating
agreements.



NiSource’s extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy, involves considerable
judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty’s financial condition, credit
history and other factors. Credit risk exposure is monitored by obtaining credit reports and
updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status
of its banking partners and other counterparties through the use of market-based metrics such as
credit default swap pricing levels, and also through traditional credit ratings provided by the
major credit rating agencies. Continued adverse economic conditions could increase credit risk and
could result in a material adverse effect on NiSource.



NiSource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. An impairment of goodwill
or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings.



In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, NiSource tests goodwill for impairment
at least annually and reviews its definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or
changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill would also
be tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include, reduced cash flow estimates, a
sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. NiSource would be required to record a charge in the
financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived
intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. A significant
charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under the five-year revolving credit
facility. This covenant requires NiSource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not
exceed 70%. A similar covenant in the 2005 private placement requires NiSource to maintain a debt
to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%.



Changes in taxation and our ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect NiSource’s
financial results.



NiSource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local
levels where it does business. Legislation or regulation which could affect NiSource’s tax burden
could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. NiSource cannot predict the timing or
extent of such tax-related developments, which could have a negative impact on the financial
results. Additionally, NiSource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for
these tax obligations. However, a challenge by a taxing authority, our ability to utilize tax



12




 









    
    
    


    ITEM 1A.
     
    RISK FACTORS (continued)




NiSource Inc.



benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions
may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates.



Changes in accounting principles may adversely affect NiSource’s financial results.



Future changes in accounting rules, such as IFRS, and associated changes in regulatory accounting
may negatively impact the way NiSource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These
changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial results.



Aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations, which could
negatively impact our financial results.



NiSource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. The age of these assets may result
in them being more costly to maintain and susceptible to unscheduled outages in spite of diligent
efforts by NiSource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and
capital investment. The failure of such assets could result in increased expenses which may not be
fully recoverable from customers and/or a reduction in revenue.



Climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt
operations and reduce the ability to service customers.



A disruption or failure of natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within
electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane,
tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales,
providing services, or performing other critical functions. NiSource has experienced disruptions
in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. The cost, availability
and sufficiency of insurance for these risks could adversely affect NiSource’s results of
operations, financial position and cash flows.



There is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure
associated with heat and extreme weather conditions. Climate change and the costs that may be
associated with its impacts have the potential to affect NiSource’s business in many ways,
including increasing the cost NiSource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the
demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather
patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which NiSource operates.






ITEM 1B