ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.There are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on NiSource’s operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of NiSource’s securities.NiSource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition.NiSource had total consolidated indebtedness of $9,999.4 million outstanding as of December 31, 2014. The substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could: •limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds;•reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;•limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which the Company operates;•lead parties with whom NiSource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for NiSource to transact such business;•place NiSource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged;•increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and•limit the ability of the Company to execute on its growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund its substantial investment program.Some of NiSource’s debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. NiSource’s failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. Additionally, a drop in NiSource’s credit rating could adversely impact the cost for NiSource to issue new debt securities.A drop in NiSource’s credit rating could adversely impact NiSource’s liquidity.The announcement of the Proposed Separation on September 28, 2014 triggered ratings reviews by Standard & Poor’s ("Standard & Poor's"), Moody’s Investors Service ("Moody's"), and Fitch Ratings Inc. ("Fitch").  On September 29, 2014, Standard & Poor's affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource and the existing ratings of its other rated subsidiaries at BBB- and the NiSource Finance commercial paper rating of A-3, placing the company’s ratings on watch positive.  On September 29, 2014, Moody's Investors Service affirmed the NiSource senior unsecured rating of Baa2 and commercial paper rating of P-2, with a stable outlook.   Additionally, Moody's affirmed NIPSCO’s Baa1 rating and affirmed the Baa2 rating for Columbia of Massachusetts.  On September 29, 2014, Fitch affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB-, and the existing ratings of its other rated subsidiaries. Fitch's outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable.  Although all ratings continue to be investment grade, a downgrade by either Standard & Poor's or Fitch would result in a rating that is below investment grade.Certain NiSource affiliates have agreements that contain “ratings triggers” that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB- by Standard & Poor's or Baa3 by Moody's. These agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of power. The collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $39.3 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain “adequate assurance” or “material adverse change” provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. A credit downgrade could also adversely affect the availability and cost of capital needed to fund the growth investments that are a central element of NiSource's long-term business strategy.These requirements, combined with other potential negative effects on NiSource’s liquidity in the event of a credit downgrade below an investment grade rating, could have a material adverse effect on earnings potential and cash flows. Lastly, a credit downgrade could adversely affect the availability and cost of capital needed to fund the growth investments which are a central element of the Company’s long-term business strategy.NiSource may not be able to execute its growth strategy as planned.Because of changes in the business or regulatory environment, NiSource may not be able to execute its business plan as intended. NiSource’s commercial and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results; levels of commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and storage business may be less than its plan has anticipated; natural gas production activity, including production facilitated by hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling, could be less than anticipated, which could adversely affect NiSource’s gas transmission, storage and midstream business expansion opportunities; and, therefore, the actual results of 10Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.NiSource’s financial management of the balance sheet, and process and expense management, could deviate materially from planned outcomes. In addition, NiSource’s growth plan relies on the continued view of natural gas as an economically and ecologically attractive fuel.  Any developments that cause natural gas no longer to be seen as a favored fuel could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects.Adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and liquidity needs.While the national economy is experiencing some recovery from the recent downturn, NiSource cannot predict how robust the recovery will be or whether or not it will be sustained.Continued sluggishness in the economy impacting NiSource’s operating jurisdictions could adversely impact NiSource’s ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. An increase in the interest rates NiSource pays would adversely affect future net income and cash flows. In addition, NiSource depends on debt to finance its operations, including both working capital and capital expenditures, and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. If the current economic recovery remains slow or credit markets again tighten, NiSource’s ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at a reasonable cost could be negatively impacted. Refer to Note 14, “Long-Term Debt,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt.Capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings.The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. NiSource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below NiSource’s projected rates of return. A decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. Further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. Ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension expense could negatively impact NiSource’s results of operations and financial position.The majority of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings.Most of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. As such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. These rate reviews determine the rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. NiSource’s financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. Additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval.As a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, NiSource may compete with independent marketers for customers. This competition exposes NiSource to the risk that certain stranded costs may not be recoverable and may affect results of NiSource’s growth strategy and cash flows. NiSource’s costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the recognition of environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability.NiSource’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste, solid waste, and coal combustion residuals. Compliance with these legal obligations requires NiSource to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of NiSource’s facilities. These expenditures are significant, and NiSource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. Furthermore, if NiSource’s subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even 11Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.if caused by factors beyond NiSource’s control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against NiSource and its subsidiaries.Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to NiSource’s subsidiaries. Revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on NiSource’s facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would, therefore, reduce net income. Moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of NiSource’s facilities.Because NiSource’s operations deal with natural gas and coal fossil fuels, emissions of GHGs are an expected aspect of the business. While NiSource attempts to reduce GHG emissions through efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, GHG emissions cannot be entirely eliminated. The current administration has made it clear that it is focused on reducing GHG emissions, through legislation and/or regulation. Imposing statutory or regulatory restrictions and/or costs on GHG emissions could increase NiSource’s cost of producing energy, which could impact customer demand or NiSource’s profitability. Compliance costs associated with these requirements could also affect NiSource’s cash flow. The cost impact of any new or amended GHG legislation or regulations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time.Even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known, the original estimates for cleanup and environmental capital projects can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. The actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of contamination, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery from customers. Changes in costs and the ability to recover under regulatory mechanisms could affect NiSource’s financial position, operating results and cash flows.A significant portion of the gas and electricity NiSource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. Accordingly, the operating results fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity.Energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. Forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. Additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting NiSource’s financial results. Lastly, residential and commercial customers’ usage has shown to be sensitive to economic conditions and the impact of macro-economic drivers such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence, which could also affect NiSource’s financial results.NiSource’s business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries.Business operations throughout NiSource’s service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. In particular, sales to large industrial customers may be impacted by economic downturns. The U.S. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products.Fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs may have a negative impact on NiSource’s financial results.NiSource’s electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and its gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas they deliver. These energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. Hedging activities have been deployed in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices and NiSource relies on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the costs incurred in operations. However, while NiSource has historically been successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. Additionally, increased gas and electricity costs could result in reduced demand from customers as a result of increased conservation activities.NiSource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements.NiSource’s extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty’s financial condition, credit history and other factors. Credit risk exposure is monitored by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of its banking partners and other counterparties through the use of market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, 12Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.and also through traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. Continued adverse economic conditions could increase credit risk and could result in a material adverse effect on NiSource.NiSource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. An impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings.In accordance with GAAP, NiSource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill also is tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. NiSource would be required to record a charge in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. A significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. NiSource is subject to a financial covenant under its five-year revolving credit facility and its term loans, which requires NiSource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. A similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires NiSource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. As of December 31, 2014, the ratio was 62%.Changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect NiSource’s financial results.NiSource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where it does business. Legislation or regulation which could affect NiSource’s tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. NiSource cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on the financial results. Additionally, NiSource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these tax obligations. However, a challenge by a taxing authority, NiSource’s ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates.Changes in accounting principles may adversely affect NiSource’s financial results.Future changes in accounting rules and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way NiSource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Transportation and storage of natural gas, as well as generation, transmission and distribution of electricity involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs.NiSource's gas distribution and gas transmission and storage activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as gas leaks, downed power lines, accidents, including third-party damages, large scale outages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses.  In addition, these risks could result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of its operations, adverse regulatory rulings and reputational harm, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to NiSource. In accordance with customary industry practice, NiSource maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of pipelines and storage facilities, or generation, transmission, substations and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect NiSource's financial position and results of operations.Aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations that could negatively impact NiSource’s financial results.NiSource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. The age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs and unscheduled outages despite diligent efforts by NiSource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. The failure to operate these assets as desired could result in NiSource’s inability to meet firm service obligations, adversely impact revenues, and result in increased capital expenditures and expenses, which may not be fully recoverable from customers.13Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.Climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers.A disruption or failure of natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. NiSource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. The cost, availability and sufficiency of insurance for these risks could adversely affect NiSource’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows.There is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure associated with heat and extreme weather conditions. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect NiSource’s business in many ways, including increasing the cost NiSource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which NiSource operates.A cyber-attack on any of NiSource's or certain third-party computer systems upon which NiSource relies may adversely affect its ability to operate.NiSource is reliant on technology to run its businesses, which are dependent upon financial and operational computer systems to process critical information necessary to conduct various elements of its business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, operation of its gas pipelines and storage facilities and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions to regulators, investors and other stakeholders. Any failure of NiSource’s computer systems, or those of its customers, suppliers or others with whom it does business, could materially disrupt NiSource’s ability to operate its business and could result in a financial loss and possibly do harm to NiSource’s reputation.Additionally, NiSource's information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources with the apparent aim to breach NiSource's cyber-defenses. Although NiSource attempts to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and works through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess NiSource's countermeasures, a security breach of NiSource's information systems could (i) impact the reliability of NiSource's generation, transmission, storage and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact NiSource's compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject NiSource to harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to NiSource's customers or employees, or (iii) impact NiSource's ability to manage NiSource's businesses.NiSource's capital projects subject it to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks.NiSource’s Columbia Pipeline Group Operations continues to complete and advance customer-driven expansion projects across its system and develop its midstream business through gathering and processing activities, primarily surrounding the Marcellus and Utica shale production area in the states of Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. Additionally, NiSource is executing on its comprehensive interstate natural gas pipeline modernization program. These modernization projects include constructing or replacing pipelines and other facilities, which subjects NiSource to construction risks and risks that gas supplies may not be available. Some expansion projects may also be subject to risks related to fluctuation in construction and gas costs. Both modernization and expansion projects are reliant on the contractual performance of vendors and suppliers of materials and supplies and services. Nonperformance or underperformance could subject NiSource to increased costs. Further, NiSource is subject to regulatory approval of various projects. Delays in this process could increase costs of the projects.NiSource competes for these projects with companies of varying size and financial capabilities, including some that may have advantages competing for natural gas and liquid gas supplies, as well as acquisitions and other business opportunities.  Similarly, NiSource Gas Distribution Operations is engaged in an intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization program to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility.  NIPSCO also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including air-quality related improvements to its electric generating stations, as well as the construction of new transmission facilities.  As NiSource undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. Additionally, NiSource may construct or purchase some of these projects to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. NiSource also may not receive material increases in revenue and cash flows until after the completion of the projects. 14Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.Sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact NiSource’s operations.NiSource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. Despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on NiSource’s infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the Company or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. Although NiSource makes every effort to plan for weather related contingencies, adverse weather may affect its ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations. The Company endeavors to minimize such service disruptions, but may not be able to avoid them altogether.Growing competition in the gas transportation and storage industries could result in the failure by customers to renew existing contracts.As a consequence of the increase in competition and the shift in natural gas production areas, customers such as LDCs and other end users, may be reluctant to enter into long-term service contracts. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with NiSource’s customers at rates sufficient to maintain current or projected revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other pipelines, gatherers, the proximity of supplies to the markets, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas. The inability of NiSource to renew, or replace its current contracts as they expire and respond appropriately to changing market conditions could materially impact its financial results and cash flows.NiSource is a holding company and is dependent on cash generated by subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock.NiSource is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. Substantially all of NiSource’s consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. Accordingly, NiSource’s ability to meet its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. In the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to NiSource, NiSource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected.Following the Proposed Separation, all of the entities that make up NiSource's Columbia Pipeline Group Operations will be separated from NiSource into a separately publicly traded company. The related assets will no longer be held by subsidiaries of NiSource, which may negatively affect NiSource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends.The Proposed Separation may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or terms, or at all, and may not achieve the intended benefits. The Proposed Separation is subject to conditions, including, without limitation, final NiSource Board of Directors approval and the receipt by NiSource of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of CPG shares to NiSource stockholders will qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions may delay the Proposed Separation, and the Proposed Separation may not occur on the currently contemplated timeline or at all. NiSource cannot predict with certainty when the benefits expected from the Proposed Separation will occur or the extent to which they will be achieved, if at all. Furthermore, there are various uncertainties and risks relating to the process of the Proposed Separation that could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including disruption of our operations and impairment of our relationship with regulators, key personnel, customers and vendors. If the Proposed Separation is successfully completed, NiSource will face new and unique risks, including having fewer assets,  reduced financial resources and less diversification of revenue sources, which may adversely impact NiSource’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, the changes in our operational and financial profile may not meet some or all of our stockholders’ investment strategies, which could cause investors to sell their NiSource shares and otherwise decrease demand for shares of NiSource common stock.  Excess selling will cause the relative market price of NiSource common stock to decrease, and the market price of NiSource common stock may be subject to greater volatility following the completion of the Proposed Separation.A condition to the Proposed Separation is the receipt by NiSource of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of CPG shares to NiSource stockholders will qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  However, even if we receive such an opinion, the Internal Revenue Service could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable.  Both NiSource and our stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if taxing authorities conclude the distribution is taxable.15Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.Following the Proposed Separation, both NiSource and CPG expect to initially receive an investment grade credit rating from Standard & Poor’s Rating Service, Moody’s Investor Service and Fitch Ratings Inc. (Ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.) We may not initially receive such ratings or, if received, our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. There is no assurance that we will continue to maintain such investment grade credit ratings in the future. If a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase and our funding sources could decrease. In addition, a failure by us to maintain an investment grade rating could affect our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. See "A drop in NiSource's credit rating could adversely impact NiSource's liquidity" above.ITEM 1B