ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



NiSource Inc.



There are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on NiSource’s operating results,
financial condition and cash flows. New risks may emerge at any time, and NiSource cannot predict
those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. Each of the
risks described below could adversely impact the value of NiSource’s securities.


NiSource has substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect its financial condition.



NiSource has a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding in part as a result of the
acquisition of Columbia and Bay State. NiSource had total consolidated indebtedness of $7,576.7
million outstanding as of December 31, 2008. The substantial indebtedness could have important
consequences to investors. For example, it could:






     
    •
     
    limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing
additional funds;



     

     
    •
     
    reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital
expenditures and other general corporate purposes;



     

     
    •
     
    limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the
industries in which the company operates;



     

     
    •
     
    lead parties with whom NiSource does business to require additional credit support, such
as letters of credit, in order for NiSource to transact such business;



     

     
    •
     
    place NiSource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less
leveraged; and



     

     
    •
     
    increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions.





Some of NiSource’s debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios
and cross-default provisions. NiSource’s failure to comply with any of these covenants could
result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of
outstanding debt obligations. Additionally, a drop in NiSource’s credit rating could adversely
impact the cost for NiSource to issue new debt securities.


On December 16, 2008, Standard and Poor’s affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource and
its subsidiaries at BBB-; however, it changed the ratings outlook for NiSource and all of its
subsidiaries to negative from stable. On February 4, 2009, Moody’s Investors Services affirmed the
senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries.
Moody’s outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is negative. On February 4, 2009, Fitch lowered
its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource to BBB- and for Northern Indiana to BBB. Fitch’s outlook
for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Although all ratings continue to be investment
grade, an additional downgrade by Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch would result in a rating
that is below investment grade.


Certain NiSource affiliates have agreements that contain “ratings triggers” that require increased
collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB- by
Standard and Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the
ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $30 million. In addition to agreements with
ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain “adequate assurance” or “material adverse
change” provisions that could result in additional credit support such as letters of credit and
cash collateral to transact business. In addition, under Northern Indiana’s trade receivables
sales program, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indiana’s debt rating
falls below BBB- or Baa3 by Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s, respectively.


Adverse economic and market conditions and increases in interest rates may reduce net revenue
growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and
liquidity needs.


The credit markets and the general economy have been experiencing a period of large-scale turmoil
and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial
institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government.
While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it may have an adverse material
effect on NiSource.


10




Table of Contents



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued)



NiSource Inc.



A decline in the economy impacting NiSource’s operating jurisdictions could adversely affect
NiSource’s ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could
reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. An increase in the interest rates NiSource
pays would adversely affect future net income and cash flows. In addition, NiSource depends on
debt to finance its operations, including both working capital and capital expenditures, and would
be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. The current economic downturn and tightening
of access to credit markets, coupled with NiSource’s current credit ratings, could impact
NiSource’s ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at a reasonable cost. Refer to
Note 16, “Long-Term Debt,” of the Consolidated Financial statements for information related to
outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt.


Capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which
then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings.


The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to
satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
NiSource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts.
These assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below
NiSource’s projected rates of return. A decline in the market value of assets may increase the
funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement
benefit plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit
plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase
funding requirements. Further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these
benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant
demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions.
Ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension expense could negatively impact
NiSource’s results of operations and financial position.


NiSource’s costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance
with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could impact cash
flow and profitability.


NiSource’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental
requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges,
remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste and solid waste. Compliance with
these legal obligations requires NiSource to commit significant expenditures for installation of
pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at
many of NiSource’s facilities. These expenditures are significant, and NiSource expects that they
will continue to be significant in the future.


NiSource subsidiaries emit greenhouse gases as a result of operations. Future legislative and
regulatory programs could significantly restrict emissions of these greenhouse gases. Compliance
costs associated with these requirements could potentially be significant and affect cash flow and
profitability.


If NiSource’s subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to
the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond NiSource’s control, that failure or
harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against NiSource and
its subsidiaries. In September 2004, the EPA issued an NOV to Northern Indiana alleging violations
of the new source review provisions of the CAA. An adverse outcome in this matter could require
capital expenditures beyond the EPA requirements that cannot be determined at this time and could
require payment of substantial penalties.


Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised, and new laws and regulations seeking to
protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to NiSource’s subsidiaries. Revised or
additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating
restrictions on NiSource’s facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully
recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce net income. The cost impact of any new or
amended legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at
this time.


A significant portion of the gas and electricity NiSource sells is used by residential and
commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. Accordingly, the operating results
fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity.


11




Table of Contents



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued)



NiSource Inc.



Energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. Forecasts of energy sales are based on normal
weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal
weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. Additionally, residential
usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity
costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting
NiSource’s financial results. Lastly, residential and commercial customers’ usage has shown to be
sensitive to economic conditions and the impact of macro-economic drivers such as unemployment,
consumption and consumer confidence, which could also affect NiSource’s financial results.


NiSource’s electric operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries.



Electric operations in northern Indiana have been and may continue to be adversely affected by
events in the steel and steel related industries. In particular, sales to large industrial
customers within these steel and steel related industries may be impacted by economic downturns.
The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international
competition, increased costs, and fluctuating demand for their products.


The majority of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the
impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings.


Virtually all of NiSource’s net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal
or state level. As such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to
regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. These rate reviews determine the
energy rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. As part of a settlement reached in
a previous regulatory proceeding, Northern Indiana filed a petition for new electric base rates and
charges on June 27, 2008 and filed its case-in-chief on August 29, 2008. Assuming the case goes
through the full procedural schedule without settlement, the final hearing is scheduled to begin
July 27, 2009 and new rates are anticipated to take effect in early 2010. The outcome for any rate
case could have a material effect on NiSource’s financial results.


NiSource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services,
and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating
agreements.


NiSource’s extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy, involves considerable
judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty’s financial condition, credit
history and other factors. Credit risk exposure is monitored by obtaining credit reports and
updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status
of its banking partners and other counterparties through the use of market-based metrics such as
credit default swap pricing levels, and also through traditional credit ratings provided by the
major credit rating agencies.


NiSource has significant goodwill and amortizable intangible assets. An impairment of goodwill or
amortizable intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings.


In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, NiSource tests goodwill for impairment
at least annually and reviews its amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or
changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill would also
be tested for impairment when factors might indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable
such as reduced cash flow estimates. Another factor could be a sustained decline in the stock
price and market capitalization below the book value. NiSource would be required to record a
charge in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or
amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. A
significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under the five-year revolving
credit facility and the two-year term loan facility. This covenant requires NiSource to maintain a
debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. A similar
covenant in the 2005 private
placement requires NiSource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%.


Natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce
our ability to service our customers.


A disruption or failure of our natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within
our electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane,
tornado, terrorist attack or other


12




Table of Contents



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued)



NiSource Inc.



catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other
critical functions. NiSource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes
and events of this nature could adversely affect NiSource’s results of operations, financial
position and cash flows.





ITEM 1B