Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. 
We caution you that the factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors may not contain all of the material factors that are important to you. In addition, in light of these risks and uncertainties, the matters referred to in the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K may not in fact occur or may prove to be materially different from the expectations expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. 
 
 
 
2

 
PART I 
 




Item 1.

Business. 
Background and Business Overview 
We are a leading global performance management company. The company provides to clients a comprehensive understanding of what consumers watch and what they buy and how those choices intersect.  We deliver critical media and marketing information, analytics and manufacturer and retailer expertise about what and where consumers buy (referred to herein as “Buy”) and what consumers read, watch and listen to (consumer interaction across the television, radio, online and mobile viewing and listening platforms referred to herein as “Watch”) on a local and global basis. Our information, insights and solutions help our clients maintain and strengthen their market positions and identify opportunities for profitable growth. We have a presence in more than 100 countries and our services cover more than 90 percent of the globe’s GDP and population.  We have significant investments in resources and associates all over the world, including in many emerging markets, and hold leading market positions in many of our services and geographies. Based on the strength of the Nielsen brand, our scale and the breadth and depth of our solutions, we believe we are the global leader in measuring and analyzing consumer behavior in the segments in which we operate. 
We help our clients enhance their interactions with consumers and make critical business decisions that we believe positively affect their sales and profitability. Our data and analytics solutions, which have been developed through substantial investment over many decades, are deeply embedded into our clients’ workflow. Our long-term client relationships are made up largely of multi-year contracts and high contract renewal rates. The average length of relationship with our top ten clients, which include The Coca-Cola Company, NBC Universal, Nestle S.A., The Procter & Gamble Company, Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. and the Unilever Group, is more than 30 years. Typically, before the start of each year, more than 70% of our annual revenue has been committed under contracts in our combined Buy and Watch segments. 
We align our business into two reporting segments, Buy (consumer purchasing measurement and analytics) and Watch (media audience measurement and analytics). Our Buy and Watch segments are built on an extensive foundation of proprietary data assets designed to yield essential insights for our clients to successfully measure, analyze and grow their businesses and manage their performance. The information from our Buy and Watch segments, when brought together, can deliver powerful insights into the effectiveness of branding, advertising and consumer choice by linking media consumption trends with consumer purchasing data to better understand behavior and better manage supply and demand as well as media spend, supply chain issues, and much more. We believe these integrated insights better enable our clients to enhance the return on both long-term and short-term investments. 
Our Buy segment provides retail transactional measurement data, consumer behavior information and analytics primarily to businesses in the consumer packaged goods industry. According to Deloitte, the aggregate retail revenue of the Top 250 global retailers approached $4.4 trillion in 2013. Our extensive database of retail and consumer information, combined with our advanced analytical capabilities, helps generate strategic insights that influence our clients’ key business decisions. We track billions of sales transactions per month in retail outlets globally and our data is used to measure their sales and market share. We are the only company offering such extensive global coverage for the collection, provision and analysis of this information for consumer packaged goods. Our Buy services also enable our clients to better manage their brands, uncover new sources of demand, manage their supply chain issues, launch and grow new services, analyze their sales, improve their marketing mix and establish more effective consumer relationships. Within our Buy segment, we have two primary geographic groups, developed and emerging markets. Developed markets primarily include the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, South Korea and Australia while emerging markets include Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, Russia, China, India and Southeast Asia. Our Buy segment represented approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues in 2015.
Our Watch segment provides viewership and listening data and analytics primarily to the media and advertising industries across the television, radio, online and mobile viewing and listening platforms. According to ZenithOptimedia, a leading global media services agency, total global spending on advertising including television, radio, online and mobile platforms is projected to reach $579 billion by end of 2016.
3

 
Our Watch data is used by our media clients to understand their audiences, establish the value of their advertising inventory and maximize the value of their content, and by our advertising clients to plan and optimize their spending. In our Watch segment, our ratings are the primary metrics used to determine the value of programming and advertising in the U.S. total television advertising marketplace, which was approximately $69 billion in 2014 according to PwC. In addition to the United States, we measure television viewing in 35 other countries. We also measure markets that account for nearly 80% of global TV ad spend and offer mobile measurement and analytic services in 60 countries, including the United States, where we are the market leader. The acquisition of Arbitron Inc. in 2013 provided us with measurement of an additional two hours a day per person of dynamic media consumption. This acquisition allows us to measure unmeasured areas that are important to the industries and clients we serve, like streaming audio, out-of-home measurements for television consumption and deeper measurement of multicultural audiences in the U.S. Our Watch segment represented approximately 46% of our consolidated revenue in 2015.      
Our Company was founded in 1923 by Arthur C. Nielsen, Sr., who invented an approach to measuring competitive sales results that made the concept of “market share” a practical management tool. For over 90 years, we have advanced the practice of market research and media audience measurement to provide our clients a better understanding of their consumers. Our Company, originally incorporated in the Netherlands, was purchased on May 24, 2006 by a consortium of private equity firms (collectively, the “Sponsors”). In January 2011, our Company consummated an initial public offering of our common stock and our shares started trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “NLSN”. On August 31, 2015, Nielsen N.V., a Dutch public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, merged with Nielsen Holdings plc, by way of a cross-border merger under the European Cross-Border Merger Directive, with Nielsen Holdings plc being the surviving company (the “Merger”). The Merger effectively changed the place of incorporation of Nielsen’s publically traded parent holding company from the Netherlands to England and Wales, with no changes made to the business being conducted by Nielsen prior to the Merger. As of December 31, 2015, the Sponsors that held equity interests in Nielsen at the time of the January 2011 initial public offering had disposed of such interests.
Services and Solutions 
What Consumers Buy 
Our Buy segment provides retail transactional measurement data, consumer behavior information and analytics primarily to businesses in the consumer packaged goods industry. Within our Buy segment, in 2015, 69% of revenues came from Developed markets and 31% came from Emerging markets. For the year ended December 31, 2015, revenues from our Buy segment represented approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues. This segment has historically generated stable revenue streams that are characterized by multi-year contracts and high contract renewal rates. At the beginning of each year, over 60% of the segment’s revenue base for the upcoming year is typically committed under existing agreements. Our top five segment clients represented approximately 20% of our segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 and the average length of relationship with these same clients is over 30 years. No single client accounted for 10% or more of our Buy segment revenues in 2015. 
Retail Measurement Services  
We are a global leader in retail measurement services. Our purchasing data provides market share, competitive sales volumes, and insights into such activities as distribution, pricing, merchandising and promotion. By combining this detailed information with our in-house expertise and professional consultative services, we produce valuable insights that help our clients improve their manufacturing, marketing and sales decisions and grow their market share. 
Depending on the sophistication of each country’s retailer systems, we collect retail sales information from stores using electronic point-of-sale technology and/or teams of local field auditors. Stores within our worldwide retail network include grocery, drug, convenience, discount and eCommerce retailers, who, through various cooperation arrangements, share their sales data with us. The electronic retail sales information collected by stores through checkout scanners is transmitted directly to us. In certain emerging markets where electronic retail sales information is unavailable, we utilize field auditors to collect information through in-store inventory and price checks. For eCommerce retailers where electronic retail sales information is unavailable, we are increasingly using consumer sourced data to collect information by leveraging proven expertise developed in our Consumer Panel business. For all information we collect, our stringent quality control systems validate and confirm the source data. The data is then processed into databases that clients access using our proprietary software that allows them to query the information, conduct customized analysis and generate reports and alerts. 
Consumer Panel Measurement 
We conduct consumer panels around the world that help our clients understand consumer purchasing dynamics at the household level. Among other things, this information offers insight into shopper behavior such as trial and repeat purchase for new products and likely substitutes, as well as customer segmentation. In addition, our panel data augments our retail measurement information providing blinded but detailed household demographics and can provide data in circumstances where we do not collect data from certain retailers. 
4

 
Our consumer panels collect data from more than 250,000 household panelists across 26 countries that use in-home scanners to record purchases from each shopping trip. In the United States, for example, approximately 100,000 selected households, constituting a demographically balanced sample, participate in the panels. Data received from household panels undergo a quality control process including UPC verification and validation, before being processed into databases and reports.  Clients may access these databases to perform analyses. 
Analytical Services 
Utilizing our foundation of consumer purchasing information, we provide a wide and growing selection of consumer intelligence and analytical services that help clients make smarter business decisions throughout their product development and marketing cycles. We draw actionable insights from our retail and consumer panel measurement data sets, our online behavioral information, as well as a variety of other proprietary data sets. 
We use consumer trends and comprehensive data analysis to advise our clients across their innovation process and apply a demand-driven approach to identify unmet consumer needs so they can develop breakthrough products. We use intelligence from comprehensive retail and consumer data analysis to inform client decisions on marketing spend for media, price, promotion and assortment. We help clients influence purchase decisions that shoppers make whether pre-store, in-store or online, and provide insights on how to market effectively along a shopper’s path to purchase. We also help clients drive profitable growth using demand-driven strategies that close the gap between consumer demand and sales, aligning what people want to what people buy. 
What Consumers Watch 
Our Watch segment provides viewership and listening data and analytics primarily to the media and advertising industries across the television, radio, digital and mobile viewing and listening platforms. For the year ended December 31, 2015, revenues from our Watch segment represented approximately 46% of our consolidated revenues. This segment has historically generated stable revenue streams that are characterized by multi-year contracts and high contract renewal rates. At the beginning of each year, over 85% of the segment’s revenue base for the upcoming year is typically committed under existing agreements. Our top five clients represented approximately 24% of segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 and the average length of relationship with these same clients is more than 30 years. No customer accounted for 10% or more of our Watch segment revenues in 2015. 
Television Audience Measurement Services 
We are the global leader in television audience measurement. In the United States, which is by far the world’s largest market for television programming, broadcasters and cable networks use our television audience ratings as the primary currency to establish the value of their airtime and more effectively schedule and promote their programming. Advertisers use this information to plan television advertising campaigns, evaluate the effectiveness of their commercial messages and negotiate advertising rates. 
We provide two principal television ratings services in the United States: measurement of national television audiences and measurement of local television audiences in all 210 designated local television markets. We use various methods to collect the data from households including electronic meters, which provide minute-by-minute viewing information for next day consumption by our clients, and written diaries. These households are meticulously identified using the U.S. Census as a model in order to properly and accurately model our national and local ratings. These methods enable us to collect not only television device viewing data but also the demographics of the audience (i.e., who in the household is watching), from which we calculate statistically reliable and accurate estimates of total television viewership. We have made significant investments over decades to build an infrastructure that can accurately and efficiently track television audience viewing, a process that has become increasingly complex as the industry has converted to digital transmission and integrated new technologies allowing for developments such as time-shifted viewing. 
Our measurement techniques are constantly evolving to account for new television viewing behavior, increased fragmentation and new media technologies. For example, to help advertisers and programmers understand time-shifted viewing behavior, we created the Average Commercial Minute (ACM) ratings, which is a measure of how many people watch commercials during live and time-shifted viewing, both through 3 days ("C3") and through 7 days ("C7"). The C3 rating has become the primary metric for buying and selling advertising on national broadcast television. We are expanding our television audience measurement to incorporate viewing of video-on-demand and from connected devices such as gaming consoles. We are developing and testing ways to measure how consumers watch video on tablets and other devices, to help advertising and programmers incorporate this viewing behavior into their programming and advertising plans. In the U.S., we utilize a single-source TV and PC panel to provide information to clients about simultaneous usage of more than one screen (e.g., if a consumer uses Facebook while watching a TV program), unduplicated reach (i.e., total audience net of duplication across platforms), cause and effect analysis (e.g., if a TV advertisement spurs a consumer to view a specific website online) and program viewing behavior (e.g., what platforms consumers use to view certain programming). 
5

 
Nielsen has also been working with clients and partners to better measure online and mobile viewers, like asking TV networks to install software in their digital video players, websites, and apps to track their digital audiences, and striking data deals with partners like Facebook to collect the anonymous demographics of the more than 180 million American Facebook users who watch those digital videos or use those websites and apps). 
We are also working with Twitter to establish a measurement of consumer interaction with television programming and social media to address the growing interest in social TV among advertisers and media players. 
We measure television viewing in 35 countries outside the United States, including Australia, Indonesia, Italy and South Korea. The international television audience measurement industry operates on a different model than in the United States. In many international markets, a joint industry committee of broadcasters in each individual country selects a single official audience measurement provider, which is designated the “currency” through an organized bidding process that is typically revisited every several years. We have strong relationships in these countries and see a significant opportunity to expand our presence into additional countries around the world. 
Audio Audience Measurement Services 
We provide independent measurement and consumer research primarily servicing radio, advertisers and advertising agencies in the audio industry. We estimate the size and composition of radio audiences in local markets and of audiences to network radio programming and commercials in the U.S. We refer to our local and network radio audience ratings services, collectively, as our “syndicated radio ratings services.” We provide our syndicated radio ratings services in local markets in the United States to radio broadcasters, advertising agencies, and advertisers. Our national services estimate the size and demographic composition of national radio audiences and the size and composition of audiences of network radio programs and commercials. Broadcasters use our data primarily to price and sell advertising time, and advertising agencies and advertisers use our data in purchasing advertising time. 
In addition to the services described above, we also provide qualitative information about consumers, including their lifestyles, shopping patterns, and use of media in local markets and across the United States. Generally referred to as “qualitative services,” we market these services to customers of our syndicated radio ratings services who wish to demonstrate the value of their advertising propositions. We also market our quantitative and qualitative audience and consumer information to customers outside of our traditional base, such as the advertising sales organizations of local cable television companies, national cable and broadcast television networks, and out-of-home media sales organizations. 
We provide software applications allowing our customers to access our proprietary databases of media and marketing information. These applications enable our customers to analyze this information more effectively for sales, management, and programming purposes. Some of our software applications also allow our customers to access data owned by third-parties, provided the customers have a separate license to use such third-party data. 
We have developed our electronic Portable People MeterTM (“PPM®”) technology, which we deploy across many of our customer offerings and have licensed to other media information services companies to use in their media audience ratings services in countries outside of the United States. We have commercialized our PPM ratings service in 48 of the largest radio markets in the United States. 
Digital Audience Measurement Services 
We are a global provider of digital media and market research, audience analytics and social media measurement. We employ a variety of measurement offerings to provide digital publishers, internet and media companies, marketers and retailers with metrics to better understand the behavior of online audiences. Through a combination of patented panel and census data collection methods, we measure and study the internet surfing, online buying, and video viewing (including television content) of digital audiences. In addition to measuring overall internet usage, Nielsen is the only company that has a Media Ratings Council (“MRC”) accredited age and gender measurement across its U.S. Digital Ad Ratings and U.S. television ratings services. Nielsen’s Digital Ad Ratings are now in 17 countries with 8 more markets planned in 2016. Those 17 current Digital Ad Ratings markets account for about 85% of global digital ad spend.
Since 2010, Nielsen has been providing innovative census measurement through third party data enrichment providers such as Facebook. Through such partnerships, Nielsen has privacy-protected and anonymous access to demographic data on over 1.5 billion user profiles. We provide critical advertising metrics such as audience demographics, page and ad views, and time spent. As newer forms of digital media such as video advertising, social media and applications become a greater proportion of consumer behavior, we are transitioning our portfolio of digital services, including discontinuation of certain legacy services in certain markets and the launch of other services, to address the evolving requirements of measuring digital audiences and better serve our clients. Nielsen Social is 
6

 
the leading provider of social TV measurement, analytics and audience engagement solutions for TV networks, agencies and advertisers, helping the industry measure, understand and act on the activity and reach of TV-related conversation on Twitter. Nielsen Social uses Gracenote US TV data as the foundation of its measurement for linear TV.  Using Gracenote’s definition of a television network today we measure 15 Broadcast, 184 Cable-National, and 39 Cable – Regional Sports channels. We also measure programming from 6 streaming providers and 8 TV syndication groups. In total that is 252 programming networks. In terms of brands, Nielsen Social manually enters brands into our Brand Tracking System and once entered the Twitter activity around each brand is measured on a 24/7 basis.  Currently there are 2,097 brands in our database that are being tracked.  Through our exclusive agreement with Twitter we produce Nielsen Twitter TV Ratings, the first-ever measure of the total activity and reach, as well as demographics, of TV-related conversation on Twitter.
Along with tracking Twitter TV conversation around linear airtimes, we are also now tracking Twitter TV conversation in the U.S. on a 24/7 basis for over 650 series programs, including linear and over-the-top programming such as Netflix and Hulu. 
Nielsen Social is also available in Italy, Australia, and Mexico and uses local TV data as the foundation for its measurement (Gracenote in Australia and Mexico and Rovi in Italy). In Australia we measure 19 Free to Air and 82 Subscription TV channels. In Italy we measure 45 Free to Air and 76 Subscription TV channels. In Mexico we measure 11 Free to Air and 85 Subscription TV channels. In total that is 318 TV networks. In terms of brands, each territory uses their own install of the Brand Tracking System. Currently there are 552 brands in Mexico, 563 brands in Italy and 691 brands in Australia. In total that is 1,806 brands.
Mobile Measurement Services 
We provide independent measurement and consumer research for telecom and media companies in the mobile telecommunications industry. Clients, principally mobile carriers and device manufacturers, rely upon our data to make consumer marketing, competitive strategy and resource allocation decisions. In the United States, our metrics are a leading indicator for market share, customer satisfaction, device share, service quality, revenue share, content audience and other key performance indicators. We also benchmark the end-to-end consumer experience to pinpoint problem areas in the service delivery chain, track key performance metrics for mobile devices and identify key market opportunities (e.g., demand tracking for device features and services). To address the rapid growth of mobile internet consumption, we have deployed a combination of panel and census based measurement to capture internet, video and other media on mobile, smartphone, and tablet devices. In the U.S., Nielsen has deployed our mobile software development kit (SDK) to offer a comprehensive mobile advertising and content measurement for our media clients. In addition, our census demographic measurement uses the world's largest mobile demographic data set through our data enrichment providers. We offer mobile measurement and analytic services in 60 countries worldwide, including the United States, where we are a leader in the market for mobile audience measurement, and are focused on expanding our presence in other markets
Marketing Effectiveness 
We provide a range of solutions to major advertisers, whether they are consumer packaged goods manufacturers, retailers, media companies, or other verticals such as automotive, telecom or financial services, to help validate and optimize their advertising spend. We quantify the effectiveness of advertising by reporting behavioral observations, attitudinal changes and actual offline purchase activity. We offer services specific to television, digital and social marketing to determine “resonance” or impact of specific campaigns, by measuring objectives such as breakthrough, brand recall, purchase intent and effect on product and brand loyalty. These services can also help clients determine which elements of their advertising campaigns are more or less effective, including frequency of repetition, length of commercial and context. As part of these efforts, we collect and analyze more than 21 million surveys annually to measure consumer engagement and recall of advertisements across television and online to provide important insights on advertising and content effectiveness.  
We also combine intelligence on what consumers watch and buy to inform client decisions on their advertising spend. We integrate data from our Buy segment and other third party sources, including our Nielsen Catalina Solutions business, with Watch data on audience exposure to help assess the effect of an advertising campaign on purchase activity. We believe these and other offerings of consumer behavior data and marketing insights can provide value to advertisers as well as media content owners and distributors, and help these clients answer some of their most important marketing questions. 
7

 
Competitive Advantages 
We are faced with a number of competitors in the markets in which we operate. Some of our competitors in each market may have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and may benefit from other competitive advantages. See “Competitive Landscape” and “Risk Factors”. We face competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.  Notwithstanding the challenges presented by the competitive landscape, we believe that we have several competitive advantages, including the following: 
Global Scale and Brand. We provide a breadth of information and insights about consumers covering approximately 90 percent of all population and GDP globally.  In our Buy segment, we track billions of sales transactions per month in retail outlets in more than 100 countries around the world. We also have approximately 250,000 household panelists across 26 countries. In our Watch segment, our ratings are the primary metrics used to determine the value of programming and advertising in the U.S. total television advertising marketplace, which was approximately $69 billion in 2014 according to PwC. We believe our footprint, independence, credibility and leading market positions will continue to contribute to our long-term growth and strong operating margins as the number and role of multinational companies expand. Our scale is supported by our global brand, which is defined by the original Nielsen code created by our founder, Arthur C. Nielsen, Sr.: impartiality, thoroughness, accuracy, integrity, economy, price, delivery and service. 
Strong, Diversified Client Relationships. Many of the world’s largest brands rely on us as their information and analytics provider to create value for their business. We maintain long-standing relationships and multi-year contracts with high renewal rates due to the value of the services and solutions we provide. In our Buy segment, our clients include the largest consumer packaged goods and merchandising companies in the world such as The Coca-Cola Company, Kraft Foods and The Procter & Gamble Company, as well as leading retail chains such as Carrefour, Kroger, Safeway, Tesco, Walgreens and Wal-Mart Stores. In our Watch segment, our client base includes leading broadcast, radio, cable and internet companies such as CBS, Clear Channel Media, Disney/ABC, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, NBC Universal/Comcast, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc., Time Warner, Twitter, Univision and Yahoo!; leading advertising agencies such as WPP, IPG, Omnicom, and Publicis; leading telecom companies such as AT&T, Verizon, Vodafone, and Nokia; and leading automotive companies such as Chrysler, Ford and Toyota. The average length of relationship with our top 10 clients across both our Buy and Watch segments is more than 30 years. In addition, due to our growing presence in emerging markets, we have cultivated strong relationships with local market leaders that can benefit from our services as they expand globally. Our strong client relationships provide both a foundation for recurring revenues as well as a platform for growth. 
Enhanced Data Assets and Measurement Science. Our extensive portfolio of transactional and consumer behavioral data across our Buy and Watch segments enables us to provide critical information to our clients. For decades, we have employed advanced measurement methodologies that yield statistically accurate information about consumer behavior while having due regard for their privacy. Our particular expertise in panel measurement includes a proven methodology to create statistically accurate research insights that are statistically representative of designated audiences. This expertise is a distinct advantage as we extrapolate more precise insights from emerging large-scale census databases to provide greater granularity and segmentation for our clients. We continue to enhance our core competency in measurement science by improving research approaches and investing in new methodologies. We have also invested significantly in our data architecture to enable the integration of distinct large-scale census data sets including those owned by third parties. We believe that our expertise, established standards and increasingly granular and comprehensive data assets provide us with a distinct advantage as we deliver more precise insights to our clients. 
Innovation. We have focused on innovation to deepen our capabilities, expand in new and emerging forms of measurement, enhance our analytical offerings and capitalize on industry trends.   For example, we are investing in Total Audience measurement, bringing together audiences across digital and television platforms for both ad campaigns (Total Ad Ratings) and content (Total Content Ratings).  These measurement offerings allow content providers and advertisers to understand their true reach across and among all platforms using a combination of Nielsen's gold standard panels and census-based measurement.
We are also working with our clients to help maximize the value of the data we give to them by allowing them to evaluate new distribution options (e.g. the Apple TV, Roku, Game Console breakout) as well as understanding the true impact and audiences of their content when sent to Subscription Video on Demand (“SVOD”).  
We have also made investments in providing cross platform data aggregation and audience activation via the acquisition of eXelate. Its data management platform and big data infrastructure enabled unified consumer mapping and targeting across multiple media platforms. 
We have further enhanced our information and analytics delivery platform, Nielsen Answers on Demand, to enable the management of consumer loyalty programs for retailers. The continued expansion of our Nielsen Campaign Ratings service provides “reach” metrics for TV and digital campaign ratings, and can offer advertisers and media companies a unique measurement of unduplicated audiences for their advertising and programming across television and online viewing. 
8

 
Our ability to deliver marketing effectiveness results in "real time"  in a more scalable fashion, and with a broader series of data points (demo+) is expected to expand by leveraging the big data infrastructure and data marketplace acquired through the eXelate acquisition.  Nielsen has also created the first currency-quality, respondent level planning dataset and software solution for Total Audience media planning, Media Impact. 
Scalable Operating Model. Our global presence and operating model allow us to scale our services and solutions rapidly and efficiently. We have a long track record of establishing leading services that can be quickly expanded across clients, markets and geographies. Our global operations and technology organization enables us to achieve faster, higher quality outcomes for clients in a cost-efficient manner. Our flexible architecture allows us to incorporate leading third-party technologies as well as data from external sources, and enables our clients to use our technology and solutions on their own technology platforms. In addition, we work with leading technology partners such as IBM, Tata Consultancy Services, Amazon and TIBCO, which allows for greater quality in client offerings and efficiency in our global operations.
Industry Trends 
We believe companies, including our clients, require an increasing amount of data and analytics to set strategy and direct operations. This has resulted in a large market for business information and insight which we believe will continue to grow. Our clients are media, advertising and consumer packaged goods companies in the large and growing markets. We believe that significant economic, technological, demographic and competitive trends facing consumers and our clients will provide a competitive advantage to our business and enable us to capture a greater share of our significant market opportunity. We may not be able to realize these opportunities if these trends do not continue or if we are otherwise unable to execute our strategies. See “Risk Factors – We may be unable to adapt to significant technological change which could adversely affect our business” and “Risk Factors – Our international operations are exposed to risks which could impede growth in the future.” 
Emerging markets present significant expansion opportunities. Brand marketers are focused on attracting new consumers in emerging countries as a result of the fast-paced population growth of the middle class in these regions. In addition, the retail trade in these markets is quickly evolving from small, local formats toward larger, more modern formats with electronic points of sale, a similar evolution to what occurred in developed markets over the last several decades. We provide established measurement methodologies to help give consumer packaged goods companies, retailers and media companies an accurate understanding of local consumers to allow them to harness growing consumer buying power in markets like Brazil, India and China. 
Demographic shifts and changes in spending behavior are altering the consumer landscape. Consumer demographics and related trends are constantly evolving globally, leading to changes in consumer preferences and the relative size and buying power of major consumer groups. Shifts in population size, age, racial composition, family size and relative wealth are causing marketers continuously to re-evaluate and reprioritize their consumer marketing strategies. We track and interpret consumer demographics that help enable our clients to engage more effectively with their existing consumers as well as forge new relationships with emerging segments of the population. 
The media landscape is dynamic and changing. Consumers are rapidly changing their media consumption patterns. The growing availability of the internet, and the proliferation of new formats and channels such as mobile devices, social networks and other forms of user-generated media have led to an increasingly fragmented consumer base that is more difficult to measure and analyze. In addition, simultaneous usage of more than one screen is becoming a regular aspect of daily consumer media consumption. We have effectively measured and tracked media consumption through numerous cycles in the industry’s evolution – from broadcast to cable, from analog to digital, from offline to online and from live to time-shifted and Video On Demand/Subscription Video On Demand. We believe our distinct ability to provide independent audience measurement and metrics across television, radio, online and mobile platforms helps clients better understand, adapt to and profit from the continued transformation of the global media landscape. 
Consumers are more connected, informed and in control. More than three-quarters of the world’s homes have access to television, there are approximately 3.1 billion internet users around the globe, and mobile penetration rates have reached 96% globally. Advances in technology have given consumers a greater level of control of when, where and how they consume information and interact with media and brands. They can compare products and prices instantaneously and have new avenues to learn about, engage with and purchase products and services. These shifts in behavior create significant complexities for our clients. Our broad portfolio of measurement and analytical services enables our clients to engage consumers with more impact and efficiency, influence consumer purchasing decisions and actively participate in and shape conversations about their brands. 
9

 
Increasing amounts of consumer information are leading to new marketing approaches. The advent of the internet and other digital platforms has created rapid growth in consumer data that is expected to intensify as more entertainment and commerce are delivered across these platforms. As a result, companies are looking for real-time access to more granular levels of data to understand growth opportunities more quickly and more precisely. This presents a significant opportunity for us to work with companies to effectively manage, integrate and analyze large amounts of information and extract meaningful insights that allow marketers to generate profitable growth. 
Consumers are looking for greater value. Economic and social trends have spurred consumers to seek greater value in what they buy as exemplified by the rising demand for “private label” (store branded) products. This increased focus on value is causing manufacturers, retailers and media companies to re-evaluate brand positioning, pricing and loyalty. We believe companies will increasingly look to our broad range of consumer purchasing insights and analytics to more precisely and effectively measure consumer behavior and target their products and marketing offers at the right place and at the right price. 
Our Growth Strategy 
We believe we are well-positioned for growth worldwide and have a multi-faceted strategy that builds upon our brand, strong client relationships and integral role in measuring and analyzing the global consumer. Our growth strategy is also subject to certain risks. For example, we may be unable to adapt to significant technological changes such as changes in the technology used to collect and process data or in methods of television viewing. In addition, consolidation in our customers’ industries may reduce the aggregate demand for our services. See “Risk Factors.” 
Continue to grow in emerging markets 
Emerging markets (measured in our Buy segment) comprised approximately 31% of our 2015 Buy segment revenues (17% of our 2015 consolidated revenues) and represent a significant long-term opportunity for us given the growth of the middle class and the rapid evolution and modernization of the retail trade in these regions. Currently, the middle class is expanding significantly each year on a global basis, with Africa, Brazil, Russia, India and China currently contributing nearly half of all global consumption growth. Key elements of our strategy include: 




 

·

Continuing to grow our existing services in local markets while simultaneously introducing into emerging markets new services drawn from our global portfolio; 




 

·

Partnering with existing clients as they expand their businesses into emerging markets and providing the high-quality measurement and insights to which they are accustomed; and 




 

·

Building relationships with local companies that are expanding beyond their home markets by capitalizing on the global credibility and integrity of the Nielsen brand. 
Continue to develop innovative services 
We intend to continue emerging our service portfolio to provide our clients with comprehensive and advanced solutions. Key elements of our strategy include: 




 

·

Further developing our analytics offerings across all facets of our client base to provide a more comprehensive offering and help our clients think through their most important challenges; 




 

·

Continuing to grow our leadership in measurement and insight services related to television, radio, digital and mobile and expanding our services in growth areas including social media to help our media clients more effectively reach their target audiences and better understand the value of their content; and 




 

·

Continuing to expand our Marketing Effectiveness offering, which integrates our proprietary data and analytics from both the Buy and Watch segments, by emerging powerful tools to help clients better understand the effectiveness of advertising and the impact of advertising spend on consumer purchasing behavior. 
Continue to attract new clients and expand existing relationships 
We believe that substantial opportunities exist to both attract new clients and to increase our revenue from existing clients. Building on our deep knowledge and the embedded position of our Buy and Watch segments, we expect to sell new and innovative solutions to our new and existing clients, increasing our importance to their decision making processes. 
10

 
Continue to pursue strategic acquisitions to complement our leadership positions 
We have increased our capabilities through investments and acquisitions in the areas of retail measurement, U.S. and international audience measurement, and advertising effectiveness for digital and social media campaigns. Going forward, we will consider select acquisitions of complementary businesses that enhance our product and geographic portfolio and can benefit from our scale, scope and status as a global leader. 
Technology Infrastructure 
We operate with an extensive data and technology infrastructure utilizing 9 primary data centers in six countries around the world. We also use AWS from Amazon for cloud based infrastructure. Our global database has the capacity to house approximately 54 petabytes of information, with our Buy segment processing approximately 9.5 billion purchasing data points each month in 2015, our Watch segment processing approximately 200 billion tuning and viewing records (across panel and census data) each month in 2015 and our eXelate platform processing 300 billion events each month in 2015. Our technology infrastructure plays an instrumental role in meeting service commitments to global clients and allows us to quickly scale our services across practice areas and geographies. Our technology platform utilizes an open approach that facilitates integration of distinct data sets, interoperability with client data and technology, and partnerships with leading technology companies such as IBM, Tata Consulting Services, TIBCO and Amazon.
Intellectual Property 
Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and all of our other intellectual property are important assets that afford protection to our business. Our success depends to a degree upon our ability to protect and preserve certain proprietary aspects of our technology and our brand. To ensure that objective, we control access to our proprietary technology. Our employees and consultants enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements with us. We protect our rights to proprietary technology and confidential information in our business arrangements with third parties through confidentiality and other intellectual property and business agreements. 
We hold a number of third-party patent and intellectual property license agreements that afford us rights to third-party patents, technology and other intellectual property. Such license agreements most often do not preclude either party from licensing our patents and technology to others. Such licenses may involve one-time payments or ongoing royalty obligations, and we cannot ensure that future license agreements can or will be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms, or at all. 
Employees 
As of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 43,000 people worldwide. Approximately 20% of our employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements and an additional 17% are covered under works council agreements in Europe. We may become subject to additional agreements or experience labor disruptions which may result in higher operating costs over time. We actively invest in our employee relations and believe they are solid. Nielsen is committed to treating employees in a way that respects and protects their human rights everywhere we operate around the world.
Competitive Landscape 
There is no single competitor that offers all of the services we offer in all of the markets in which we offer them. We have many competitors worldwide that offer some of the services we provide in selected markets. While we maintain leading positions in many markets in which we operate, our future success will depend on our ability to enhance and expand our suite of services, provide reliable and accurate measurement solutions and related information, drive innovation that anticipates and responds to emerging client needs, strengthen and expand our geographic footprint, and protect consumer privacy. See “Risk Factors – We face competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.” We believe our global presence and integrated portfolio of services are key assets in our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace. A summary of the competitive landscape for each of our segments is included below: 
11

 
What Consumers Buy 
While we do not have one global competitor in our Buy segment, we face numerous competitors in various areas of our service in different markets throughout the world. Competition includes companies specializing in marketing research, in-house research departments of manufacturers and advertising agencies, retailers that sell information directly or through brokers, information management and software companies, and consulting and accounting firms. In retail measurement, our principal competitor in the United States is Information Resources, Inc., which is also present in some European and Asia/Pacific markets. Our retail measurement service also faces competition in individual markets from local companies. Our consumer panel services and analytics services have many direct and/or indirect competitors in all markets around the world including in selected cases GfK, Ipsos, Kantar and local companies in individual countries. 
What Consumers Watch 
While we do not have one global competitor in our Watch segment, we face numerous competitors in various areas of our operations in different markets throughout the world. We are the clear market leader in U.S. television audience measurement; however, there are many emerging players and technologies that will increase competitive pressure.  Numerous companies such as, Rentrak and TiVo are attempting to provide alternative forms of television audience measurement using, inter alia, set-top box data and panel-based measurement. Our principal competitor in television audience measurement outside the United States is Kantar, with companies such as GfK and Ipsos also providing competition in select individual countries. 
Our primary competitor in the digital audience and campaign measurement solutions in the United States is comScore. Globally (including the United States), we face competition from additional companies that provide digital measurement and analytics services such as Oracle, Google Analytics, Adobe Analytics and IBM Digital Analytics as well as in the small but growing space of social measurement. In 2016 Rentrak merged into a wholly-owned subsidiary of comScore and the combined companies will focus on cross platform measurement.  We are the market leader in the U.S. audio audience measurement. Our principal competitors include Triton and Kantar, which are developing technologies similar to our PPM ratings service.
Regulation 
Our operations are subject to and affected by data protection laws in many countries. These laws pertain primarily to personal data (i.e., information relating to an identified or identifiable individual), constrain whether and how we collect personal data, how that data may be used and stored, and whether, to whom and where that data may be transferred. What constitutes “personal data” varies from country to country and region to region and continues to evolve. Data collection methods that may not always be obvious to the data subject, like the use of cookies online, or that present a higher risk of abuse, such as collecting data directly from children, tend also to be more highly regulated, and products that rely on these technologies may require re-engineering to comply with new laws. In addition, these data transfer constraints can impact multinational access to a central database and cross-border data transfers. 
Some of the personal data we collect may be considered “sensitive” by the laws of many jurisdictions because they may include certain demographic information and consumption preferences. Sensitive personal data typically are more highly regulated than non-sensitive data. Generally, this means that for sensitive data the data subject’s consent should be more explicit and fully informed and security measures surrounding the storage of the data should be more rigorous. The greater constraints that apply to the collection and use of sensitive personal data increase the administrative and operational burdens and costs of panel recruitment and management. 
The attention privacy and data protection issues attract can offer us a competitive advantage. Because we recognize the importance of privacy to our panelists, our customers, consumers in general, and regulators, we devote dedicated resources to enhancing our privacy and security practices in our product development plans and other areas of operation, and participate in privacy policy organizations and “think tanks.” We do this to improve both our practices and the perception of Nielsen as a leader in this area. 
Recent Developments
On February 18, 2016, our Board declared a cash dividend of $0.28 per share on our common stock.  The dividend is payable on March 17, 2016 to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 3, 2016.
Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas 
See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements – “Segments,” for further information regarding our operating segments and our geographic areas. 
12

 
Available Information 
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports will be made available free of charge on our website at http://www.nielsen.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Information on our website is not incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this report. 
From time to time, Nielsen may use its website and social media outlets as channels of distribution of material company information.  Financial and other material information regarding the company is routinely posted and accessible on our website at http://www.nielsen.com/investors, our Twitter account at http://twitter.com/NielsenIR and our iPad App, NielsenIR, available on the App Store.
 
 




Item 1A.

Risk Factors 
The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 
 
Risks Related to Our Business 
We may be unable to adapt to significant technological change which could adversely affect our business. 
We operate in businesses that require sophisticated data collection, processing systems, software and other technology. Some of the technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly. We will be required to adapt to changing technologies, either by developing and marketing new services or by enhancing our existing services, to meet client demand. 
Moreover, the introduction of new services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render existing services obsolete. Our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, manage and process ever-increasing amounts of data and information and improve the performance, features and reliability of our existing services in response to changing client and industry demands. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of our services. New services, or enhancements to existing services, may not adequately meet the requirements of current and prospective clients or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. 
Traditional methods of television viewing continue to change as a result of fragmentation of channels and digital and other new television technologies and devices such as video-on-demand, digital video recorders, game consoles, tablets, other mobile devices and internet viewing. In addition, consumption of consumer packaged goods is growing in new and different channels such as discount stores and e-commerce. If we are unable to continue to successfully adapt our media and consumer measurement systems to new viewing and consumption habits, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. 
Consolidation in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries could put pressure on the pricing of our services, thereby leading to decreased earnings. 
Consolidation in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries could reduce aggregate demand for our services in the future and could limit the amounts we earn for our services. When companies merge, the services they previously purchased separately are often purchased by the combined entity in the aggregate in a lesser quantity than before, leading to volume compression and loss of revenue. While we attempt to mitigate the revenue impact of any consolidation by expanding our range of services, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so as industry consolidation continues, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. 
Client procurement strategies could put additional pressure on the pricing of our services, thereby leading to decreased earnings. 
Certain of our clients may continue to seek further price concessions from us. This puts pressure on the pricing of our services, which could limit the amounts we earn. While we attempt to mitigate the revenue impact of any pricing pressure through effective negotiations and by providing services to individual businesses within particular groups, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. 
13

 
Continued adverse market conditions, particularly in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications or technology industries, could adversely impact our revenue. 
A number of adverse financial developments continue to impact the global financial markets. The current economic environment has witnessed continued malaise in consumer confidence and demand, impacting the demand for our customers’ products and services. Those reduced demands could adversely affect the ability of some of our customers to meet their current obligations to us and hinder their ability to incur new obligations until the economy and their businesses strengthen. The inability of our customers to pay us for our services and/or decisions by current or future customers to forego or defer purchases may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, profitability and cash flows and may continue to present risks for an extended period of time. We cannot predict the impact of economic slowdowns on our future financial performance. 
We expect that revenues generated from our measurement and analytical services will continue to represent a substantial portion of our overall revenue for the foreseeable future. To the extent the businesses we service, especially our clients in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries, are subject to the financial pressures of, for example, increased costs or reduced demand for their products, the demand for our services, or the prices our clients are willing to pay for those services, may decline. 
During challenging economic times, clients, typically advertisers, within our Buy segment may reduce their discretionary advertising expenditures and may be less likely to purchase our analytical services, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. 
Clients within our Watch segment derive a significant amount of their revenue from the sale or purchase of advertising. During challenging economic times, advertisers may reduce advertising expenditures and advertising agencies and other media may be less likely to purchase our media information services, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. 
Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. 
We have now and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2015, we had total indebtedness of $7,338 million. 
Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: 




 

·

increase our vulnerability to  general adverse economic and industry conditions; 




 

·

require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, service development efforts, dividends, share repurchases and other general corporate purposes; 




 

·

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 




 

·

expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; 




 

·

restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; 




 

·

limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, service development, debt service requirements, dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; 




 

·

limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions; 




 

·

place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and 




 

·

limit our ability to service our dividend and stock repurchases programs.
In addition, the indentures governing our outstanding notes and our credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to engage in activities that may be in our best interests in the long term. The failure to comply with any of those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. 
Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. 
We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. 
14

 
We will require a significant amount of cash as well as continued access to the capital markets to service our indebtedness, fund capital expenditures and meet our other liquidity needs. Our ability to generate cash and our access to the capital markets depend on many factors beyond our control. 
Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness (both interest and principal) and to fund planned capital expenditures and other liquidity needs will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future and our ability to refinance our indebtedness. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements – “Long-term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements,” for a description of our debt maturities.
A substantial portion of our indebtedness is at variable rates, and we are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates
Our cash interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $296 million, $294 million and $304 million, respectively.   At December 31, 2015, we had $3,496 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities of which $2,325 million (excluding $550 million of forward swaps effective after December 31, 2015) was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. A one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $12 million ($35 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). We periodically review our fixed/floating debt mix, and the volume, rates and duration of our interest rate hedging portfolio are subject to changes, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
The success of our business depends on our ability to recruit sample participants to participate in our research samples. 
Our business uses scanners and diaries to gather consumer data from sample households as well as Set Meters, People Meters, Active/Passive Meters, PPM’s and diaries to gather television and audio audience measurement data from sample households. It is increasingly difficult and costly to obtain consent from households to participate in the surveys. In addition, it is increasingly difficult and costly to ensure that the selected sample of households mirrors the behaviors and characteristics of the entire population and covers all of the demographic segments requested by our clients. Additionally, as consumers adopt modes of telecommunication other than traditional telephone service, such as mobile, cable and internet calling, it may become more difficult for our services to reach and recruit participants for consumer purchasing and audience measurement services. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to recruit appropriate participants, maintain the integrity of our panels, maintain adequate participation levels or properly model the sample data, our clients may lose confidence in our ratings services and we could lose the support of the relevant industry groups. If this were to happen, our consumer purchasing and audience measurement services may be materially and adversely affected. 
Data protection laws and self-regulatory codes may restrict our activities and increase our costs. 
Various statutes and rules regulate conduct in areas such as privacy and data protection which may affect our collection, use, storage and transfer of information both abroad and in the United States. The definition of “personally identifiable information” and “personal data” continues to evolve and broaden, new laws and regulations are being enacted, and long-established programs, like the EU-US Safe Harbor framework, are being declared invalid, so that this area remains in a state of flux. In addition, some of our online products and services are subject to the self-regulatory programs of several organizations. Compliance with these laws and self-regulatory codes may require us to make certain investments or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services or only offer such services after making necessary modifications. Failure to comply with these laws and self-regulatory codes may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, data being blocked from use and/or liability under contractual warranties. In addition, there is an increasing public concern regarding data and consumer protection issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection laws has been increasing. There is also the possibility that the scope of existing privacy laws may be expanded. For example, several countries, including the United States, have regulations that restrict telemarketing to individuals who request to be included on a do-not-call list. Typically, these regulations target sales activity and do not apply to survey research. If the laws were extended to include survey research, our ability to recruit research participants could be adversely affected. In addition, the European Union has reached agreement on the General Data Protection Regulation, originally introduced in 2012. The final text of the Regulation is expected to be formally adopted by the European Parliament and Council in the spring of 2016, and this Regulation should become effective in 2018. Interpretations of the Regulation may have a negative impact on some of our services or may require us to revise some of our practices, procedures or products. These or future initiatives may adversely affect our ability to generate or assemble data or to develop or market current or future services, which could negatively impact our business. 
15

 
Our services involve the receipt, storage and transmission of proprietary information. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained, our services may be perceived as not being secure and regulators, panelists and survey respondents may hold us liable for disclosure of personal data, and clients and venture partners may hold us liable or reduce their use of our services. 
We receive, store and transmit large volumes of proprietary information and data that contains personal information about individuals. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability and our reputation could be damaged. It may also make it more difficult to recruit panelists and survey respondents.  For example, hackers or individuals who attempt to breach our network security could, if successful, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. If we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate problems and to respond to regulators’ inquiries. We may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or saboteurs in a timely manner, or at all. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target and, as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose current and potential clients. In addition, we may be subject to investigation and fines by jurisdictions that have data breach notification laws.
If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. 
The success of our business will depend, in part, on: 




 

·

obtaining patent protection for our technology and services; 




 

·

defending our patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property; 




 

·

preserving our trade secrets and maintaining the security of our know-how and data; and 




 

·

operating our business without infringing upon intellectual property rights held by third parties. 
We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and the patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws of the United States and other countries to protect our intellectual property. These legal measures afford only limited protection and may not provide sufficient protection to prevent the infringement, misuse or misappropriation of our intellectual property. Intellectual property law in several foreign jurisdictions is subject to considerable uncertainty. There can be no assurances that the protections we have available for our proprietary technology in the United States and other countries will be available to us in all of the places we sell our services. Any infringement or misappropriation of our technology can have a negative impact on our business. The patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. The expiration of our patents may lead to increased competition. Although our employees, consultants, clients and collaborators enter into confidentiality agreements with us, our trade secrets, data and know-how could be subject to unauthorized use, misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure. The growing need for global data, along with increased competition and technological advances, puts increasing pressure on us to share our intellectual property for client applications with others, which could result in infringement. Competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Our trademarks could be challenged, which could force us to rebrand our services, result in a loss of brand recognition and require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Given the importance of our intellectual property, we will enforce our rights whenever it is necessary and prudent to do so. Any future litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial expense and diversion of time and attention of management, may not be resolved in our favor and could adversely affect our business. 
If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, our operating profits could be adversely affected. 
We cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others in operating our business. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any such claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: 




 

·

be expensive and time-consuming to defend; 




 

·

result in our being required to pay possibly significant damages; 




 

·

cause us to cease providing our services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; 




 

·

require us to redesign or rebrand our services; 
16

 




 

·

divert management’s attention and resources; or  




 

·

require us to enter into potentially costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, although royalty or licensing agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. 
Any of the above could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects and financial condition. 
We generate revenues throughout the world which are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, and our revenues and net income may suffer due to currency translations and repatriation of earnings to the U.S. 
We operate globally, deriving approximately 40% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 in currencies other than U.S. dollars, with approximately 9% of revenues deriving in Euros. Our U.S. operations earn revenues and incur expenses primarily in U.S. dollars, while our European operations earn revenues and incur expenses primarily in Euros. Outside the United States and the Euro Zone, we generate revenues and expenses predominantly in local currencies. Because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure. In certain instances, we may not be able to freely convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars due to limitations placed on such conversions. 
We have operations in both the Buy and Watch segments in Venezuela. The functional currency for these operations was the Venezuelan Bolivares Fuertes, which has been considered hyperinflationary since January 1, 2010. In February 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency by 32%. The official exchange rate moved from 4.30 to 6.30 and the regulated System of Transactions with Securities in Foreign Currency market was suspended. As a result of this change, we recorded a charge of $12 million in 2013 in foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities. 
Based on facts and circumstances present at March 31, 2014, we began using the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions for U.S. dollars conducted under Venezuela’s Complementary System of Foreign Currency Administration (“SICAD I”) as the SICAD I exchange rate represented what was the most realistic official exchange rate at which to remeasure the U.S. dollar value of the bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan operations at that time. At March 31, 2014, the SICAD I exchange rate was 10.8 bolivars to the U.S. dollar. As a result of this change, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $20 million during the first quarter of 2014.  
Due to the lack of access to the SICAD I auction system throughout the remainder of 2014, as of December 31, 2014 we decided it was more likely that we would be able to gain access to U.S. dollars through the SICAD II mechanism to settle transactions conducted by the Company in Venezuela as SICAD II was created to provide a more open mechanism that was designed to permit any company to request U.S. dollars for any purpose.  At December 31, 2014, the SICAD II exchange rate was 50.0 bolivars to the U.S. dollar.  As a result of the changes in exchange rate assumptions, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $32 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 and a total of $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2014.
On February 12, 2015, the Venezuelan government replaced SICAD II with a new foreign exchange market mechanism (“SIMADI”). We currently expect to be able to access U.S. dollars through the SIMADI market. SIMADI has significantly higher foreign exchange rates than those available through the other foreign exchange mechanisms. At December 31, 2015, the SIMADI exchange rate was 198.7 bolivars to the U.S. dollar.  As a result of this change, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $8 million during the year ended December 31, 2015.
As of December 31, 2015, of the $357 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $317 million was held in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and as a result there may be tax consequences if such amounts were moved out of these jurisdictions or repatriated to the U.S. We regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our U.S. indebtedness and related obligations. 
Our international operations are exposed to risks which could impede growth in the future. 
We continue to explore opportunities in major international markets around the world, including China, Russia, India and Brazil. International operations expose us to various additional risks, which could adversely affect our business, including: 




 

·

costs of customizing services for clients outside of the United States; 




 

·

reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; 




 

·

the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; 
17

 




 

·

difficulties in managing international operations;  




 

·

longer sales and payment cycles; 




 

·

exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; 




 

·

exposure to local economic conditions; 




 

·

limitations on the repatriation of funds from foreign operations; 




 

·

exposure to local political conditions, including adverse tax and other government policies and positions, civil unrest and seizure of assets by a foreign government; and 




 

·

the risks of an outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism in the jurisdictions in which we operate. 
In countries where there has not been a historical practice of using consumer packaged goods retail information or audience measurement information in the buying and selling of advertising time, it may be difficult for us to maintain subscribers. 
Criticism of our audience measurement service by various industry groups and market segments could adversely affect our business. 
Due to the high-profile nature of our services in the media, internet and entertainment information industries, we could become the target of criticism by various industry groups and market segments. We strive to be fair, transparent and impartial in the production of audience measurement services, and the quality of our U.S. ratings services are voluntarily subject to review and accreditation by the Media Rating Council, a voluntary trade organization, whose members include many of our key client constituencies. However, criticism of our business by special interests, and by clients with competing and often conflicting demands on our measurement service, could result in government regulation. While we believe that government regulation is unnecessary, no assurance can be given that legislation will not be enacted in the future that would subject our business to regulation, which could adversely affect our business. 
A loss of one of our largest clients could adversely impact our results of operations. 
Our top ten clients accounted for approximately 22% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015. We cannot assure you that any of our clients will continue to use our services to the same extent, or at all, in the future. A loss of one or more of our largest clients, if not replaced by a new client or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. 
We rely on third parties to provide certain data and services in connection with the provision of our current services. 
We rely on third parties to provide certain data and services for use in connection with the provision of our current services and our reliance on third-party data providers is growing. For example, our Buy segment enters into agreements with third parties (primarily retailers of fast-moving consumer goods) to obtain the raw data on retail product sales it processes and edits and from which it creates products and services. These suppliers of data may increase restrictions on our use of such data, fail to adhere to our quality control standards or otherwise satisfactorily perform services, increase the price they charge us for this data or refuse altogether to license the data to us. Supplier consolidation could put pressure on our cost structure.  In addition, we may need to enter into agreements with third parties to assist with the marketing, technical and financial aspects of expanding our services for other types of media. In the event we are unable to use such third party data and services or if we are unable to enter into agreements with third parties, when necessary, our business and/or our potential growth could be adversely affected. In the event that such data and services are unavailable for our use or the cost of acquiring such data and services increases, our business could be adversely affected. 
We rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our worldwide information technology and operations functions. A failure to provide these functions in a satisfactory manner could have an adverse effect on our business. 
We are dependent upon third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology and operations functions worldwide. The success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions in a timely and satisfactory manner. If we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. 
18

 
Long-term disruptions in the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and/or air service could adversely affect our business.
Our business is dependent on the use of the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and air service. Long-term disruptions in one or more of these services, which could be caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, civil unrest and/or acts of terrorism, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
Hardware and software failures, delays in the operations of our data gathering procedures, our computer and communications systems or the failure to implement system enhancements may harm our business. 
Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems and our data gathering procedures. A failure of our network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. While many of our services have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have full backup facilities everywhere in the world to provide redundant network capacity in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions we may take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities, or delays in our data gathering operations due to weather or other acts of nature, could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and to our clients. In addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. In the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider. Such a transfer could result in significant delays in our ability to deliver our services to our clients and could be costly to implement. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements and improvements, or inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed, could damage our reputation and harm our business. Finally, long-term disruptions in infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, civil unrest and/or acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which we have offices) could adversely affect our services. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. 
The presence of our Global Technology and Information Center in Florida heightens our exposure to hurricanes and tropical storms, which could disrupt our business. 
The technological data processing functions for certain of our U.S. operations are concentrated at our Global Technology and Information Center (“GTIC”) at a single location in Florida. Our geographic concentration in Florida heightens our exposure to a hurricane or tropical storm. These weather events could cause severe damage to our property and technology and could cause major disruptions to our operations. Although our GTIC was built in anticipation of severe weather events and we have insurance coverage, if we were to experience a catastrophic loss, we may exceed our policy limits and/or we may have difficulty obtaining similar insurance coverage in the future. As such, a hurricane or tropical storm could have an adverse effect on our business. 
Changes in tax laws and the continuing ability to apply the provisions of various international tax treaties may adversely affect our financial results and increase our tax expense. 
Changes in tax laws, international treaties, regulations, related interpretations and tax accounting standards in the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and other countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial results, particularly our income tax expense. For example, recent legislative proposals to reform U.S. taxation of non-U.S. earnings could have a material adverse effect on our financial results by subjecting a significant portion of our non-U.S. earnings to incremental U.S. taxation and/or by delaying or permanently deferring certain deductions otherwise allowed in calculating our U.S. tax liabilities. Further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) action plans issued by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in 2015 as well as interpretations as to the application of EU rules on state aid. The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, has recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These changes, if adopted by countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. Finally, governments are increasingly considering changes to tax law regimes as a means to cover budgetary shortfalls resulting from the current economic environment. These changes could result in higher taxation to Nielsen. 
We face increasing competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 
We are faced with a number of competitors in the markets in which we operate. Some of our competitors in each market may have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and may in the future engage in aggressive pricing action to compete with us and provide better technology. Although we believe we are currently able to compete effectively in each of the various markets in which we participate, we may not be able to do so in the future or be capable of maintaining or further increasing our current market share. Our failure to compete successfully in our various markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 
19

 
We may be subject to antitrust litigation or government investigation in the future, which may result in an award of money damages or force us to change the way we do business. 
In the past, certain of our business practices have been investigated by government antitrust or competition agencies, and we have on several occasions been sued by private parties for alleged violations of the antitrust and competition laws of various jurisdictions. Following some of these actions, we have changed certain of our business practices to reduce the likelihood of future litigation. Although each of these material prior legal actions have been resolved, there is a risk based upon the leading position of certain of our business operations that we could, in the future, be the target of investigations by government entities or actions by private parties challenging the legality of our business practices. Also, in markets where the retail trade is concentrated, regulatory authorities may perceive certain of our retail services as potential vehicles for collusive behavior by retailers or manufacturers. There can be no assurance that any such investigation or challenge will not result in an award of money damages, penalties or some form of order that might require a change in the way that we do business, any of which could adversely affect our revenue stream and/or profitability. 
Our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational changes could impact our business results. 
We recently experienced senior leadership changes, and we continue to execute a number of significant business and organizational changes, including acquisitions, divestitures and workforce optimization projects to support our growth strategies. We expect these types of changes, which may include many staffing adjustments as well as employee departures, to continue for the foreseeable future. Successfully managing these changes, including the identification, development and retention of key employees to provide uninterrupted leadership and direction for our business, is critical to our success. This includes developing organization capabilities in key growth markets where the depth of skilled or experienced employees may be limited and competition for these resources is intense. Finally, our financial targets assume a consistent level of productivity improvement. If we are unable to deliver expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, our financial results could be adversely impacted. 
If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate employees, we may not be able to compete effectively and will not be able to expand our business. 
Our success and ability to grow are dependent, in part, on our ability to hire, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of talented people, with the increasingly diverse skills needed to serve clients and expand our business, in many locations around the world. Competition for highly qualified, specialized technical and managerial, and particularly consulting personnel is intense. Recruiting, training and retention costs and benefits place significant demands on our resources. The inability to attract qualified employees in sufficient numbers to meet particular demands or the loss of a significant number of our employees could have an adverse effect on us, including our ability to obtain and successfully complete important client engagements and thus maintain or increase our revenues.
We have suffered losses due to goodwill impairment charges in the past and could do so again in the future. 
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual review for impairment (or more frequently should indications of impairment arise). In addition, other intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2015, we had goodwill and intangible assets of $12,555 million. Any downward revisions in the fair value of our reporting units or our intangible assets could result in impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets that could materially affect our financial performance. 
Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions into our existing operations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
We regularly evaluate opportunities for strategic growth through tuck-in acquisitions. Potential issues associated with these acquisitions could include, among other things, our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of the acquisition within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with the acquisition; diversion of management’s attention from base strategies and objectives; and, with respect to acquisitions,  our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized, including sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems among our company and the acquired company, motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees, conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company, consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures, consolidating sales and marketing operations, retaining existing customers and attracting new customers, identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets, coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions. In addition, acquisitions outside of the United States increase our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and compliance with foreign laws and regulations. If an acquisition is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 
20

 
Our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted by our U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans:
Adverse equity market conditions and volatility in the credit markets may have an unfavorable impact on the value of our pension trust assets and future estimated pension liabilities. As a result, our financial results in any period could be negatively impacted. In addition, in a period of an extended financial market downturn, we could be required to provide incremental pension plan funding with resulting liquidity risk which could negatively impact our financial position.
Ineffective internal controls could impact our business and operating results: 
Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in its implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.
 
 




Item 1B