Item 1A.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


    Year Ended December 31


 




    $ in millions


 


    2006


 


 


    2005
    


 


 


    2004
    


 





    Operating Margin



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Information &
    Services



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Mission Systems
    



 


    $


    471


 


 


    $


    374


 


 


    $


    314


 





    Information Technology
    



 


 


    352


 


 


 


    328


 


 


 


    246


 





    Technical Services
    



 


 


    110


 


 


 


    89


 


 


 


    71


 





    Aerospace



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Integrated Systems
    



 


 


    551


 


 


 


    499


 


 


 


    431


 





    Space Technology
    



 


 


    293


 


 


 


    274


 


 


 


    236


 





    Electronics



 


 


    744


 


 


 


    702


 


 


 


    661


 





    Ships



 


 


    393


 


 


 


    249


 


 


 


    395


 





    Other



 


 


 


 


 


 


    (17


    )


 


 


    (3


    )





    Intersegment Eliminations
    



 


 


    (117


    )


 


 


    (84


    )


 


 


    (59


    )





    Total Segment Operating Margin
    



 


 


    2,797


 


 


 


    2,414


 


 


 


    2,292


 





    Non-segment factors affecting
    operating margin
    



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Unallocated expenses
    



 


 


    (287


    )


 


 


    (190


    )


 


 


    (282


    )





    Net pension expense adjustment
    



 


 


    (37


    )


 


 


    (21


    )


 


 


    (12


    )





    Reversal of royalty income
    included above
    



 


 


    (19


    )


 


 


    (10


    )


 


 


    (12


    )





    Total operating margin
    



 


    $


    2,454


 


 


    $


    2,193


 


 


    $


    1,986


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Unallocated Expenses – The reconciling item
    captioned “Unallocated expenses” includes the portion
    of corporate expenses such as management and administration,
    legal, environmental, certain compensation and retiree benefits,
    and other expenses not considered allowable or allocable under
    applicable U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS)
    regulations and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and
    therefore not allocated to the segments.


 


    Net Pension Expense Adjustment – The net
    pension expense adjustment reflects the excess pension expense
    determined in accordance with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) over the pension
    expense allocated to the operating segments under CAS.


 



    Realignments





    The company, from time to time, acquires or disposes of
    businesses, and realigns contracts, programs or business areas
    among its operating segments that possess similar customers,
    expertise, and capabilities. These realignments are designed to
    more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance
    development and delivery of products and services. The operating
    results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect
    these changes.



    
    -10-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION





    Other
    Financial Information


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


    Year Ended December 31


 




    $ in millions


 


    2006


 


 


    2005
    


 


 


    2004
    


 





    Contract Acquisitions



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Information &
    Services



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Mission Systems
    



 


    $


    5,717


 


 


    $


    4,442


 


 


    $


    4,846


 





    Information Technology
    



 


 


    4,617


 


 


 


    3,962


 


 


 


    3,680


 





    Technical Services
    



 


 


    2,288


 


 


 


    1,368


 


 


 


    1,464


 





    Aerospace



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Integrated Systems
    



 


 


    6,107


 


 


 


    4,544


 


 


 


    5,042


 





    Space Technology
    



 


 


    4,314


 


 


 


    2,643


 


 


 


    3,455


 





    Electronics



 


 


    7,167


 


 


 


    6,346


 


 


 


    6,542


 





    Ships



 


 


    10,045


 


 


 


    2,749


 


 


 


    5,670


 





    Other



 


 


 


 


 


 


    19


 


 


 


    217


 





    Intersegment eliminations
    



 


 


    (1,500


    )


 


 


    (1,565


    )


 


 


    (1,293


    )





    Total contract acquisitions
    



 


    $


    38,755


 


 


    $


    24,508


 


 


    $


    29,623


 





    Capital Expenditures



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Information &
    Services



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Mission Systems
    



 


    $


    45


 


 


    $


    54


 


 


    $


    23


 





    Information Technology
    



 


 


    32


 


 


 


    35


 


 


 


    27


 





    Technical Services
    



 


 


    4


 


 


 


    5


 


 


 


    4


 





    Aerospace



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Integrated Systems
    



 


 


    119


 


 


 


    142


 


 


 


    111


 





    Space Technology
    



 


 


    107


 


 


 


    123


 


 


 


    123


 





    Electronics



 


 


    130


 


 


 


    166


 


 


 


    146


 





    Ships



 


 


    287


 


 


 


    266


 


 


 


    220


 





    Other



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    3


 





    Corporate



 


 


    13


 


 


 


    33


 


 


 


    15


 





    Total capital expenditures
    



 


    $


    737


 


 


    $


    824


 


 


    $


    672


 





    Depreciation and
    Amortization



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Information &
    Services



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Mission Systems
    



 


    $


    30


 


 


    $


    57


 


 


    $


    55


 





    Information Technology
    



 


 


    46


 


 


 


    49


 


 


 


    48


 





    Technical Services
    



 


 


    7


 


 


 


    8


 


 


 


    8


 





    Aerospace



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Integrated Systems
    



 


 


    110


 


 


 


    102


 


 


 


    90


 





    Space Technology
    



 


 


    136


 


 


 


    142


 


 


 


    132


 





    Electronics



 


 


    211


 


 


 


    247


 


 


 


    244


 





    Ships



 


 


    153


 


 


 


    155


 


 


 


    148


 





    Other



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    2


 





    Corporate



 


 


    12


 


 


 


    12


 


 


 


    6


 





    Total depreciation and amortization
    



 


    $


    705


 


 


    $


    772


 


 


    $


    733


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    
    -11-



Table of Contents









    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION






     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


    December 31,


 




    $ in millions


 


    2006


 


 


    2005
    


 





    Assets



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Information &
    Services



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Mission Systems
    



 


    $


    4,701


 


 


    $


    4,750


 





    Information Technology
    



 


 


    3,305


 


 


 


    3,319


 





    Technical Services
    



 


 


    1,092


 


 


 


    993


 





    Aerospace



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Integrated Systems
    



 


 


    2,202


 


 


 


    2,271


 





    Space Technology
    



 


 


    4,541


 


 


 


    4,615


 





    Electronics



 


 


    5,454


 


 


 


    5,577


 





    Ships



 


 


    6,946


 


 


 


    6,756


 





    Other



 


 


 


 


 


 


    14


 





    Segment assets
    



 


 


    28,241


 


 


 


    28,295


 





    Corporate
    



 


 


    3,768


 


 


 


    5,919


 





    Total assets
    



 


    $


    32,009


 


 


    $


    34,214


 





    Funded Backlog



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Information &
    Services



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Mission Systems
    



 


    $


    2,952


 


 


    $


    2,309


 





    Information Technology
    



 


 


    2,830


 


 


 


    2,244


 





    Technical Services
    



 


 


    1,066


 


 


 


    567


 





    Aerospace



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Integrated Systems
    



 


 


    4,285


 


 


 


    3,678


 





    Space Technology
    



 


 


    1,936


 


 


 


    972


 





    Electronics



 


 


    6,585


 


 


 


    5,996


 





    Ships



 


 


    10,854


 


 


 


    6,130


 





    Other



 


 


 


 


 


 


    5


 





    Total funded backlog
    



 


    $


    30,508


 


 


    $


    21,901


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Substantially all of the company’s assets are located or
    maintained in the United States. Backlog is converted into the
    following years’ sales as costs are incurred or deliveries
    are made. Approximately 65 percent of the
    2006 year-end funded backlog is expected to be converted
    into sales in 2007.


 



    CUSTOMERS
    AND REVENUE CONCENTRATION


 


    The company’s primary customer is the U.S. Government.
    Revenue from the U.S. Government accounted for
    approximately 90 percent, 90 percent, and
    88 percent of total revenues in 2006, 2005, and 2004,
    respectively. No other customer accounted for more than
    10 percent of total revenue during any period presented. No
    single product or service accounted for more than
    10 percent of total revenue during any period presented.



    -12-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



 



    PATENTS


 


    The following table summarizes the number of patents the company
    owns or has pending as of December 31, 2006:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


    Owned
    


 


 


    Pending
    


 


 


    Total


 





    U.S. patents
    



 


 


    3,507


 


 


 


    749


 


 


 


    4,256


 





    Foreign patents
    



 


 


    2,515


 


 


 


    1,977


 


 


 


    4,492


 





    Total
    



 


 


    6,022


 


 


 


    2,726


 


 


 


    8,748


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Patents developed while under contract with the
    U.S. Government may be subject to use by the
    U.S. Government. In addition the company licenses
    intellectual property to, and from, third parties. Management
    believes the company’s ability to conduct its operations
    would not be materially affected by the loss of any particular
    intellectual property right.


 



    SEASONALITY


 


    No material portion of the company’s business is considered
    to be seasonal. The timing of revenue recognition is determined
    upon several factors including the timing of contract awards,
    the incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit
    deliveries. See “Revenue Recognition” in Part II,
    Item 7.


 



    RAW
    MATERIALS


 


    The most significant raw material required by the company is
    steel, used primarily for ship building. The company has
    mitigated supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with a
    number of steel suppliers. In addition, the company has
    mitigated price risk related to its steel purchases through
    certain contractual arrangements with the U.S. Government.
    While the company has generally been able to obtain key raw
    materials required in its production processes in a timely
    manner, a significant delay in receipt of these supplies by the
    company could have a material effect on the company’s
    results of operations. See “Risk Factors” in
    Part I, Item 1A.


 



    GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION


 


    The company’s business is affected by numerous laws and
    regulations relating to the award, administration and
    performance of U.S. Government contracts. See “Risk
    Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.


 


    Certain programs with the U.S. Government that are
    prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in
    detail are referred to as “restricted” in this
    Form 10-K.
    The consolidated financial statements and financial information
    contained within this
    Form 10-K
    reflect the operating results of restricted programs under GAAP.
    See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.


 



    RESEARCH
    AND DEVELOPMENT


 


    Company-sponsored research and development activities primarily
    include independent research and development (IR&D) efforts
    related to government programs. IR&D expenses are included
    in general and administrative expenses and are allocated to
    U.S. Government contracts. Company-sponsored research and
    development expenses totaled $574 million,
    $538 million, and $504 million in 2006, 2005, and
    2004, respectively. Expenses for research and development
    sponsored by the customer are charged directly to the related
    contracts.



    
    -13-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



 



    EMPLOYEE
    RELATIONS


 


    The company believes that it maintains good relations with its
    122,200 employees, of which approximately 19 percent are
    covered by 32 collective bargaining agreements. The company
    expects to re-negotiate two of its larger collective bargaining
    agreements and 15 of its smaller agreements in 2007. It is not
    expected that these negotiations will, either individually or in
    the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the
    company’s results of operations. See “Risk
    Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.


 



    ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS


 


    Federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the
    environment affect the company’s manufacturing operations.
    The company has provided for the estimated cost to complete
    environmental remediation where the company has determined it is
    probable that the company will incur such costs in the future to
    address environmental impacts at currently or formerly owned or
    leased operating facilities, or at sites where it has been named
    a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the Environmental
    Protection Agency or similarly designated by other environmental
    agencies. These estimates may change given the inherent
    difficulty in estimating environmental cleanup costs to be
    incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the
    extent of the required cleanup, determination of legally
    responsible parties, and the status of laws, regulations, and
    their interpretations.


 


    In order to assess the potential impact on the company’s
    financial statements, management estimates the possible
    remediation costs that reasonably could be incurred by the
    company on a
    site-by-site
    basis. Such estimates take into consideration the professional
    judgment of the company’s environmental engineers and, when
    necessary, consultation with outside environmental specialists.
    In most instances, only a range of reasonably possible costs can
    be estimated. However, in the determination of accruals, the
    most probable amount is used when determinable, and the minimum
    is used when no single amount is more probable. The company
    records accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the
    accounting period in which the company’s responsibility is
    established and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The
    company does not anticipate and record insurance recoveries
    before it has determined that collection is probable.


 


    Management estimates that at December 31, 2006, the range
    of reasonably possible future costs for environmental
    remediation sites is $224 million to $319 million, of
    which $257 million is accrued in “Other current
    liabilities” in the consolidated statements of financial
    position. Environmental accruals are recorded on an undiscounted
    basis. At sites involving multiple parties, the company provides
    environmental accruals based upon its expected share of
    liability, taking into account the financial viability of other
    jointly liable parties. Environmental expenditures are expensed
    or capitalized as appropriate. Capitalized expenditures relate
    to long-lived improvements in currently operating facilities. In
    addition, should other PRPs not pay their allocable share of
    remediation costs, the company may have to incur costs in
    addition to those already estimated and accrued, which could
    have a material effect on the company’s consolidated
    financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The
    company has made the investments it believes necessary in order
    to comply with environmental laws.


 



    COMPETITIVE
    CONDITION


 


    Northrop Grumman, along with Lockheed Martin Corporation, The
    Boeing Company, Raytheon Company, and General Dynamics
    Corporation are among the largest companies in the
    U.S. defense industry at this time. Northrop Grumman
    competes against these and other companies for a number of
    programs, both large and small. Intense competition and long
    operating cycles are both key characteristics of Northrop
    Grumman’s business and the defense industry. It is common
    in this industry for work on major programs to be shared among a
    number of companies. A company competing to be a prime
    contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another
    party, turn out to be a subcontractor for the ultimate prime
    contracting party. It is not uncommon to compete for a contract
    award with a peer company and, simultaneously perform as a
    supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts.
    The nature of major defense programs, conducted under



    
    -14-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION




    binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit
    from a level of program continuity not common in many industries.


 


    The company’s success in the competitive defense industry
    depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and
    services, as well as its ability to provide the people,
    technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity
    needed to deliver those products and services with maximum
    efficiency. It is necessary to maintain, as the company has,
    sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic
    components, and major subassemblies. In this manufacturing and
    systems integration environment, effective oversight of
    subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success as managing
    internal operations. See “Risk Factors” in
    Part I, Item 1A.


 



    EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS


 


    See Part III, Item 10, for information about Executive
    Officers of the company.


 



    AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION


 


    Throughout this
    Form 10-K,
    the company incorporates by reference information from parts of
    other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC). The SEC allows the company to disclose
    important information by referring to it in this manner, and you
    should review this information in addition to the information
    contained herein.


 


    The company’s annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and proxy statement for the annual shareholders’ meeting,
    as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free
    of charge through the company’s web site as soon as
    reasonably practicable after electronic filing of such material
    with the SEC. You can learn more about the company by reviewing
    the company’s SEC filings on the company’s web site.
    The company’s SEC reports can be accessed through the
    investor relations page of the company’s web site at
    www.northropgrumman.com.


 


    The SEC also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains
    reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC
    registrants, including Northrop Grumman. The public may read and
    copy any materials filed by the company with the SEC at the
    SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information
    on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
    at
    1-800-SEC-0330.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 




    
    



            
    
    The company’s financial position, results of operations and
    cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not
    exclusively within the company’s control that may cause
    actual performance to differ materially from historical or
    projected future performance. Information contained within this
    Form 10-K
    should be carefully considered by investors in light of the risk
    factors described below.





 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company Depends Heavily on a Single Customer, the
    U.S. Government, for a Substantial Portion of the
    Company’s Business, Including Programs Subject to Security
    Classification Restrictions on Information. Changes Affecting
    this Customer’s Capacity to Do Business with the Company or
    the Effects of Competition in the Defense Industry Could Have a
    Material Adverse Effect On the Company or Its Prospects.





 


    Approximately 90 percent of the company’s revenues
    during 2006 were derived from products and services ultimately
    sold to the U.S. Government and are therefore affected by,
    among other things, the federal budget process. The company is a
    supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member,
    to the U.S. Government and its agencies as well as foreign
    governments and agencies. These contracts are subject to the
    respective customers’ political and budgetary constraints
    and processes, changes in customers’ short-range and
    long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, and
    in the case of contracts with the U.S. Government, the
    congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes,
    the Government’s ability to terminate contracts for
    convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as
    contractor



    
    -15-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION




    suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of
    legal and regulatory requirements. The termination or failure to
    fund one or more significant contracts by the
    U.S. Government could have a material adverse effect on the
    company’s results of operations or prospects.


 


    In the event of termination for the government’s
    convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions
    covering reimbursement for costs incurred subsequent to
    termination. The company is involved in a lawsuit concerning a
    contract terminated for convenience. See “Other
    Matters” in Part I, Item 3. Termination resulting
    from the company’s default could expose the company to
    liability and have a material adverse effect on its ability to
    compete for contracts.


 


    In addition, a material amount of the company’s revenues
    and profits is derived from programs that are subject to
    security classification restrictions (restricted business),
    which could limit the company’s ability to discuss details
    about these programs, their risks or any disputes or claims
    relating to such programs. As a result, investors might have
    less insight into the company’s restricted business than
    other businesses of the company or could experience less ability
    to evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with
    restricted business.


 


    The company’s success in the competitive defense industry
    depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and
    services, as well as its ability to provide the people,
    technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity
    needed to deliver those products and services with maximum
    efficiency. A loss of business to our competitors could have a
    material adverse affect on the company’s ability to
    generate favorable financial results and maintain market share.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Many of The Company’s Contracts Contain Performance
    Obligations That Require Innovative Design Capabilities, Are
    Technologically Complex, Require
    State-Of-The-Art
    Manufacturing Expertise or Are Dependent Upon Factors Not Wholly
    Within The Company’s Control. Failure to Meet These
    Obligations Could Adversely Affect The Company’s
    Profitability and Future Prospects.





 


    The company designs, develops and manufactures technologically
    advanced and innovative products and services applied by our
    customers in a variety of environments. Problems and delays in
    development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to
    design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning
    curve assumptions, or materials and components could prevent the
    company from achieving contractual requirements.


 


    In addition, the company’s products cannot be tested and
    proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen
    problems. Examples of unforeseen problems which could negatively
    affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of
    spacecraft, premature failure, problems with quality, country of
    origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services, and
    unplanned degradation of product performance. These failures
    could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or
    property. Among the factors that may affect revenue and profits
    could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance
    or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management
    focus in responding to unforeseen liabilities, loss of follow-on
    work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the
    government customer of contract cost and fee payments previously
    received by the company.


 


    Certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems,
    contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in
    the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon
    launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period
    of time. Under such terms, the company could be required to
    forfeit fees previously recognized
    and/or
    collected. The company has not experienced any material losses
    in the last decade in connection with contract performance
    incentive provisions. However, if the company were to experience
    launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the
    future, such events could have a material adverse impact on the
    company’s financial position or results of operations.



    
    -16-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



 




    
    



        n   
    
    Contract Cost Growth on Fixed-Price and Other Contracts
    That Cannot Be Justified as an Increase In Contract Value Due
    From Customers Exposes The Company to Reduced Profitability and
    the Potential Loss of Future Business.





 


    Operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that
    cannot be billed to customers are incurred. This cost growth can
    occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical
    challenges or if initial estimates used for calculating the
    contract price were incorrect. The cost estimation process
    requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost
    growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the
    nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of
    change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any
    delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from
    the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover
    any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant
    change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a
    material effect on the company’s consolidated financial
    position or results of operations.


 


    Due to their nature, fixed-price contracts inherently have more
    risk than flexibly priced contracts and therefore generally
    carry higher profit margins. Approximately 34 percent of
    the company’s annual revenues are derived from fixed-price
    contracts – see “Contracts” in Part II,
    Item 7. Flexibly priced contracts may carry risk to the
    extent of their specific contract terms and conditions relating
    to performance award fees and negative performance incentives.
    The company typically enters into fixed-price contracts where
    costs can be reasonably estimated based on experience. In
    addition, certain contracts other than fixed-price contracts
    have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights.
    Should the terms specified in those contracts not be met, then
    profitability may be reduced.


 


    Fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of the
    company’s fixed-price contracts and inherently has more
    uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and
    therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete
    the development stage. As work progresses through the
    development stage into production, the risks associated with
    estimating the total costs of the contract are generally
    reduced. In addition, successful performance of fixed-price
    development contracts, which include production units, is
    subject to the company’s ability to control cost growth in
    meeting production specifications and delivery rates. While
    management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated
    with fixed-price development programs, future events could
    result in either upward or downward adjustments to those
    estimates. Examples of the company’s significant
    fixed-price development contracts include the F-16 Block 60
    combat avionics program and the MESA radar system program for
    the Wedgetail and Peace Eagle contracts, both of which are
    performed by the Electronics segment. It is also not unusual in
    the Ships business for the company to negotiate fixed-price
    production follow-on contracts before the development effort has
    been completed and learning curves fully realized on existing
    flexibly priced development contracts.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company Uses Estimates When Accounting for Contracts.
    Changes In Estimates Could Affect The Company’s
    Profitability and Its Overall Financial Position.





 


    Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing
    risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making
    assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size
    and nature of many of the company’s contracts, the
    estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is
    complicated and subject to many variables. For example,
    assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to
    complete the contract because costs also include expected
    increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly,
    assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of
    efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives,
    awards, or penalties related to performance on contracts are
    considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are
    recorded when there is sufficient information to assess
    anticipated performance.


 


    Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation
    processes described above, it is possible that materially
    different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions
    were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change.
    Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates
    may have a



    
    -17-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION




    material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting
    and performance. See “Critical Accounting Policies,
    Estimates, and Judgments” in Part II, Item 7.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company’s Operations Are Subject to Numerous
    Domestic and International Laws, Regulations and Restrictions,
    and Noncompliance With These Laws, Regulations and Restrictions
    Could Expose The Company to Fines, Penalties, Suspension or
    Debarment, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on The
    Company’s Profitability and Its Overall Financial
    Position.





 


    The company has thousands of contracts and operations in many
    parts of the world subject to U.S. and foreign laws and
    regulations. Prime contracts with various agencies of the
    U.S. Government and subcontracts with other prime
    contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations,
    including the False Claims Act and the International Traffic in
    Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act,
    with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in
    fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving
    additional contracts with all U.S. Government agencies.
    Given the company’s dependence on U.S. Government
    business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse
    effect on the company.


 


    In addition, international business subjects the company to
    numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including,
    without limitation, regulations relating to import-export
    control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of
    earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
    and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export
    Administration Act. Failure by the company or its sales
    representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and
    regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal
    liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension
    or debarment from government contracts or suspension of the
    company’s export privileges, which could have a material
    adverse effect on the company. Changes in regulation or
    political environment may affect the company’s ability to
    conduct business in foreign markets including investment,
    procurement, and repatriation of earnings.


 


    The company operates in a highly regulated environment and is
    routinely audited by the U.S. Government and others. On a
    regular basis, the company monitors its policies and procedures
    with respect to its contracts to ensure consistent application
    under similar terms and conditions and to assess compliance with
    all applicable government regulations. Negative audit findings
    could result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of
    profits, or suspension of payments. From time to time the
    company is subject to U.S. Government investigations
    relating to its operations. Government contractors that are
    found to have violated the law such as the False Claims Act or
    the Arms Export Control Act, or are indicted or convicted for
    violations of other federal laws, or are found not to have acted
    responsibly as defined by the law, may be subject to significant
    fines. Such convictions could also result in suspension or
    debarment from government contracting for some period of time.
    Given the company’s dependence on government contracting,
    suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on
    the company.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company’s Business Is Subject to Disruption
    Caused By Issues With Its Suppliers, Subcontractors, Workforce,
    Natural Disasters and Other Factors That Could Adversely Affect
    the Company’s Profitability and Its Overall Financial
    Position.





 


    The company may be affected by delivery or performance issues
    with key suppliers and subcontractors, as well as other factors
    that may cause operating results to be adversely affected.
    Changes in inventory requirements or other production cost
    increases may also have a negative effect on the company’s
    consolidated results of operations.


 


    Performance failures by a subcontractor of the company or
    difficulty in maintaining complete alignment of the
    subcontractor’s obligations with the company’s prime
    contract obligations may adversely affect the company’s
    ability to perform its obligations on the prime contract, which
    could reduce the company’s profitability due to damages or
    other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the
    subcontractor or from the customer and could result in a
    termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on
    the company’s ability to compete for future contracts.



    
    -18-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION






    
    



    
    
    Operating results are heavily dependent upon the company’s
    ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with
    requisite skill sets
    and/or
    security clearances. The successful negotiation of collective
    bargaining agreements and avoidance of organized work stoppages
    are also critical to the ongoing operations of the company.





 


    The company has significant operations located in regions of the
    U.S. where damaging storms and other natural disasters are
    somewhat common. While preventative measures typically help to
    minimize harm to the company, the damage and disruption
    resulting from certain storms or other natural disasters may be
    significant. Although no assurances can be made, the company
    believes it can recover costs associated with natural disasters
    through insurance or its contracts.


 


    Natural disasters such as storms and earthquakes can disrupt
    electrical and other power distribution networks and cause
    adverse effects on profitability and performance, including
    computer and internet operation and accessibility. Computer
    viruses and similar harmful software programs, as well as
    network outages, disruptions and attacks also may have a
    material adverse affect on the company’s profitability and
    performance unless quarantined or otherwise prevented.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Changes In Future Business Conditions Could Cause Business
    Investments
    and/or
    Recorded Goodwill to Become Impaired, Resulting In Substantial
    Losses and Write-Downs That Would Reduce The Company’s
    Operating Income.





 


    As part of its overall strategy, the company will, from time to
    time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business.
    These investments are made upon careful target analysis and due
    diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or
    strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain
    assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. After
    acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely
    affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not
    recoverable as an adjustment to the purchased price. Even after
    careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary
    significantly from initial estimates.


 


    Goodwill accounts for approximately half of the company’s
    recorded total assets. The company evaluates the recoverability
    of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of
    potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based
    on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease
    in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market
    conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded
    goodwill. See “Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and
    Judgments” in Part II, Item 7.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company Is Subject to Various Claims and Litigation
    That Could Ultimately Be Resolved Against The Company Requiring
    Material Future Cash Payments
    and/or
    Future Material Charges Against The Company’s Operating
    Income and Materially Impairing The Company’s Financial
    Position.





 


    The size and complexity of the company’s business make it
    highly susceptible to claims and litigation. The company is
    subject to environmental claims, income tax matters and other
    litigation, which, if not resolved within established accruals,
    could have a material adverse effect on the company’s
    consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash
    flows. See “Legal Proceedings” in Part I,
    Item 3, and “Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates,
    and Judgments” in Part II, Item 7.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Pension and Medical Expense Associated with the
    Company’s Retirement Benefit Plans May Fluctuate
    Significantly Depending Upon Changes in Actuarial Assumptions
    and Future Market Performance of Plan Assets.





 


    A substantial portion of the company’s current and retired
    employee population is covered by pension and post-retirement
    benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon the
    company’s various assumptions, including estimates of rates
    of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future
    payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for
    future costs. Variances from these estimates could have a
    material adverse affect on the company’s consolidated
    financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.



    
    -19-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION



 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company’s Insurance Coverage May Be Inadequate to
    Cover All of Its Significant Risks or Its Insurers May Deny
    Coverage of Material Losses Incurred By The Company, Which Could
    Adversely Affect The Company’s Profitability and Overall
    Financial Position.





 


    Primarily as a result of the major hurricanes in 2004 and 2005
    (including Hurricanes Katrina and Rita), market conditions have
    substantially changed, resulting in an overall reduced amount of
    total available coverage. The company endeavors to identify and
    obtain in established markets insurance agreements to cover
    significant risks and liabilities (including, among others,
    natural disasters, products liability and business
    interruption). Not every risk or liability can be protected
    against by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of
    coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be
    sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred.
    In some, but not all, circumstances the company may receive
    indemnification from the U.S. Government. Because of the
    reduction in overall available coverage referred to above, the
    company may have to bear substantial costs for uninsured losses
    that could have an adverse effect upon its consolidated results
    of operations and its overall consolidated financial position.
    Additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may
    affect the timing of cash flows and, where litigation with the
    carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to the company
    may have a material adverse affect on the company’s
    consolidated results of operations. See Note 15 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Current Trends in U.S. Government Procurement May
    Adversely Affect Cash Flows or Program Profitability.





 


    The company, like others in the defense industry, is aware of a
    potential problem presented by strict compliance with the
    Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
    preference for enumerated specialty metals sourced domestically
    or from certain foreign countries. Subcontractors and lower-tier
    suppliers have made disclosures indicating inability to comply
    with the rule as written, particularly for low-value parts such
    as washers, screws, nuts, bolts, resistors and capacitors.
    Subject to limitations, inability to certify that all enumerated
    specialty metals in a product comply with sourcing requirements
    can lead to U.S. Government customers withholding a portion
    of a payment on delivery or may prevent delivery altogether of
    materiel and products critical to national defense.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B