Item 1A.


 



    Organization





    From time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses, and
    realign contracts, programs or business areas among and within
    our operating segments that possess similar customers,
    expertise, and capabilities. Internal realignments are designed
    to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance
    development and delivery of products and services. The operating
    results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect
    these changes made through December 31, 2010.




    
    -1-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    As of December 31, 2010, we are aligned into five operating
    segments: Aerospace Systems, Electronic Systems, Information
    Systems, Shipbuilding, and Technical Services. See Note 8
    to our consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8.


 



    Strategic
    Actions





    In July 2010, we announced that we would evaluate whether a
    separation of the Shipbuilding segment would be in the best
    interests of shareholders, customers, and employees by allowing
    both the company and Shipbuilding to more effectively pursue
    their respective opportunities to maximize long-term value. As
    of December 31, 2010, management anticipates that a
    spin-off of the Shipbuilding segment to our shareholders will
    likely occur in 2011. Since any final decision remains subject
    to approval by our Board of Directors, Shipbuilding’s
    financial results are reported in continuing operations. See
    Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8.


 



    AEROSPACE
    SYSTEMS


 


    Aerospace Systems, headquartered in Redondo Beach, California,
    is a leading designer, developer, integrator and producer of
    manned and unmanned aircraft, spacecraft, high-energy laser
    systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems
    critical to maintaining the nation’s security and
    leadership in technology. Aerospace Systems’ customers,
    primarily government agencies, use these systems in many
    different mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and
    reconnaissance; communications; battle management; strike
    operations; electronic warfare; missile defense; earth
    observation; space science; and space exploration. The segment
    consists of four business areas: Strike & Surveillance
    Systems, Space Systems, Battle Management & Engagement
    Systems, and Advanced Programs & Technology.


 


    Strike & Surveillance Systems –
    designs, develops, manufactures and integrates tactical and
    long-range strike aircraft systems, unmanned systems, and
    missile systems. These include the RQ-4 Global Hawk unmanned
    reconnaissance system, B-2 stealth bomber, F-35 Lightning II,
    F/A-18 Super
    Hornet strike fighter, Minuteman III Intercontinental
    Ballistic Missile (ICBM), MQ-8B Fire Scout unmanned aircraft
    system, Multi-Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program
    (MP-RTIP), and aerial targets.


 


    Space Systems – designs, develops,
    manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems and
    electronic and communications payloads.  Major
    programs include the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST), Advanced
    Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) payload, Space Tracking and
    Surveillance System (STSS) and many restricted programs.


 


    Battle Management & Engagement Systems –
    designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne
    early warning, surveillance, battlefield management, and
    electronic warfare systems. Key programs include the
    E-2 Hawkeye,
    Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS),
    Broad Area Maritime Surveillance (BAMS) unmanned aircraft
    system, Long Endurance Multi Intelligence Vehicle (LEMV), the
    EA-6B Prowler, and its next generation platform, the EA-18G
    Growler.


 


    Advanced Programs & Technology –
    creates advanced technologies and concepts to satisfy
    existing and emerging customer needs. This business area matures
    these technologies and concepts to create and capture new
    programs that other Aerospace Systems business areas can
    execute. Existing programs include the Navy Unmanned Combat Air
    System (N-UCAS), the Airborne Laser Test Bed (ALTB), and other
    directed energy and advanced concepts programs.


 



    ELECTRONIC
    SYSTEMS


 


    Electronic Systems, headquartered in Linthicum, Maryland, is a
    leader in the design, development, manufacture, and support of
    solutions for sensing, understanding, anticipating, and
    controlling the environment for our global military, civil, and
    commercial customers and their operations. Electronic Systems
    provides a variety of defense electronics and systems, airborne
    fire control radars, situational awareness systems, early
    warning systems, airspace management systems, navigation
    systems, communications systems, marine systems, space systems,
    and logistics





    
    -2-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    services. The segment consists of five business areas:
    Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance Systems;
    Land & Self Protection Systems; Naval &
    Marine Systems; Navigation Systems; and Targeting Systems.


 


    Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance (ISR)
    Systems – delivers products and services for space
    satellite applications, airborne and ground based surveillance,
    multi-sensor processing and analysis to provide battlespace
    awareness, missile defense, and command and control. The
    division also develops advanced space-based radar and
    electro-optical early warning and surveillance systems for
    strategic, tactical, and weather operations along with systems
    for enhancing the discovery, sharing, and exploitation of ISR
    data. Key products include the Space Based Infrared System
    (SBIRS), Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP),
    Defense Support Program (DSP), ground processing, exploitation
    and dissemination systems, the TPS-78/703 family of ground based
    surveillance radars, and the Multi-role Electronically Scanned
    Array (MESA) radar.


 


    Land & Self Protection Systems –
    delivers products, systems, and services that support
    ground-based, helicopter and fixed wing platforms (manned and
    unmanned) with sensor and protection systems. These systems
    perform threat detection and countermeasures that defeat
    infrared and radio frequency (RF) guided missile and tracking
    systems. The division also provides integrated electronic
    warfare capability, communications, and intelligence systems;
    unattended ground sensors; automatic test equipment; and
    advanced threat simulators. Key programs include the
    U.S. Marine Corps Ground/Air Task Oriented Radar (G/ATOR)
    multi-mission radar; the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures
    (LAIRCM) system for the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, and
    strategic international and NATO allies; the AN/ALQ-131(V)
    electronic countermeasures pods; the LR-100 high-performance
    radar warning receiver (RWR)/electronic support measures
    (ESM)/electronic intelligence (ELINT) receiver system; the
    U.S. Army’s STARLite synthetic aperture radar for
    Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs); the U.S. Army Vehicle
    Intercom Systems (VIC 3 and VIC-5); the U.S. Army Next
    Generation Automated Test System (NGATS); the U.S. Air
    Force Joint Threat Emitter (JTE) training range system; and the
    Vehicle and Dismount Exploitation Radar (VADER) system that
    enables UAVs to track individual persons or vehicles.


 


    Naval & Marine Systems – delivers
    products and services to defense, civil, and commercial markets
    supporting smart navigation, shipboard radar surveillance, ship
    control, machinery control, integrated combat management systems
    for naval surface ships, high-resolution undersea sensors (for
    mine hunting, situational awareness, and other applications),
    unmanned marine vehicles, shipboard missile and encapsulated
    payload launch systems, propulsion and power generation systems,
    and nuclear reactor instrumentation and control. Key products
    include integrated bridge and navigation systems, voyage
    management system, integrated platform management systems,
    integrated combat Management System, AN/WSN 7 Gyro Navigator,
    anti-ship missile defense and surveillance radars (Cobra Judy,
    AN/SPQ 9B, AN/SPS 74), and propulsion equipment and missile
    launch systems for the Virginia-class submarines.


 


    Navigation Systems – delivers products and
    services to defense, civil, and commercial markets supporting
    situational awareness, inertial navigation in all domains (air,
    land, sea, and space), embedded Global Positioning Systems,
    Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) systems, acoustic sensors,
    cockpit video monitors, mission computing, and integrated
    avionics and electronics systems. Key products include the
    Integrated Avionics System, the
    AN/TYQ-23
    Aircraft Command and Control System, Fiber Optic Acoustic
    Sensors, and a robust portfolio of inertial sensors and
    navigation systems.


 


    Targeting Systems – delivers products and
    services supporting airborne combat avionics (fire control
    radars, multi-function apertures and pods), airborne
    electro-optical/infrared targeting systems, and
    laser/electro-optical systems including hand-held,
    tripod-mounted, and ground or air vehicle mounted systems. Key
    products include fire control radars for the B-1B, F-16
    (worldwide), F-22 U.S. Air Force, and F-35; the AN/APN 241
    navigation/weather radar; the AN/AAQ 28(V) LITENING family of
    targeting pods; Distributed Aperture EO/IR systems; and the
    Lightweight Laser Designator Rangefinder (LLDR).


 


    In addition to the product and service lines discussed above,
    the Electronic Systems segment includes the Advanced
    Concepts & Technologies Division (AC&TD), an
    organization that develops next-generation systems,
    technologies, and architectures to position the segment in key
    developing markets. AC&TD focuses on





    
    -3-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    understanding customer mission needs, conceiving affordable
    solutions, and demonstrating the readiness and effectiveness of
    Electronic Systems’ products, including all types of
    sensors, microsystems, and associated information systems. The
    segment uses a “Product Ownership” approach, which
    guides the transition of new technology from laboratory to
    market and implements multi-function modular open systems
    architecture product families that are readily reconfigurable
    and scalable to support new requirements, new products or
    component obsolescence.


 



    INFORMATION
    SYSTEMS


 


    Information Systems, headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a
    leading global provider of advanced solutions for the DoD,
    national intelligence, federal civilian, state and local
    agencies, and commercial customers. Products and services are
    focused on the fields of command, control, communications,
    computers and intelligence; air and missile defense; airborne
    reconnaissance; intelligence processing; decision support
    systems; cybersecurity; information technology; and systems
    engineering and integration. The segment consists of three
    business areas: Defense Systems; Intelligence Systems; and Civil
    Systems.


 


    Defense Systems – is a major
    end-to-end
    provider of net-enabled Battle Management C4ISR systems,
    decision superiority, and mission-enabling solutions and
    services in support of the national defense and security of our
    nation and its allies. The division is a prime developer and
    integrator of many of the DoD’s
    programs-of-record,
    particularly for command and control and communications for the
    U.S. Air Force, U.S. Army, U.S. Navy, and Joint
    Forces. Major products and services include Enterprise
    Infrastructure and Applications, Mission Systems Integration,
    Military Communications & Networks, Battle Management
    C2 and Decision Support Systems, Global and Operational C2,
    Ground and Maritime Combat Systems, Air and Missile Defense,
    Combat Support Solutions and Services, Defense Logistics
    Automation, and Force and Critical Infrastructure Protection.
    Systems are installed in operational and command centers
    world-wide and across all DoD services and joint commands.


 


    Intelligence Systems – is focused on the
    delivery of world-class systems and services to the
    U.S. intelligence community. Major offerings include
    Studies & Analysis, Systems Development, Enterprise
    IT, Prime Systems Integration, Products, Sustainment, and
    Operations and Maintenance. The division focuses on several
    mission areas including Airborne ISR, Geospatial Intelligence,
    Ground Systems, Integrated Intelligence and dynamic Cyber
    defense. Sustaining and growing the business in today’s
    market mandates sharing meaningful information across agencies
    through development of cost effective systems that are
    responsive to mutual requirements. Intelligence Systems is also
    creating new responsive capabilities leveraging existing systems
    to provide solutions to customer needs through labs and
    integration centers.


 


    Civil Systems – provides specialized
    information systems and services in support of critical
    government civil missions, such as homeland security, public
    health, cyber security, air traffic management and public
    safety. Primary customers are federal civilian, state and local
    agencies, and the U.S. Postal Service. Civil Systems
    develops and implements solutions that combine a deep
    understanding of civil government domains with core expertise in
    prime systems integration, enterprise applications development,
    and high value IT services including cyber security, identity
    management and advanced network communications.


 



    SHIPBUILDING


 


    Shipbuilding, headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, is the
    nation’s sole industrial designer, builder and refueler of
    nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, the sole supplier and builder
    of amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships to the
    U.S. Navy, the sole builder of National Security Cutters
    for the U.S. Coast Guard, and one of only two companies
    that builds the U.S. Navy’s current fleet of DDG-51
    Arleigh Burke-class destroyers. Shipbuilding is also a
    full-service systems provider for the design, engineering,
    construction and life cycle support of major programs for
    surface ships and a provider of fleet support and maintenance
    services for the U.S. Navy. The segment consists of seven
    business areas: Aircraft Carriers; Expeditionary Warfare;
    Surface Combatants; Submarines; Coast Guard & Coastal
    Defense; Fleet Support; and Services & Other.




    
    -4-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Aircraft Carriers – Shipbuilding is the
    nation’s sole industrial designer, builder, and refueler of
    nuclear-powered aircraft carriers. The U.S. Navy’s
    newest carrier and the last of the Nimitz-class, the USS
    George H. W. Bush, was delivered in May 2009. Design work
    on the next generation carrier, the Ford-class has been
    underway for over eight years. The Ford-class
    incorporates transformational technologies including an enhanced
    flight deck with increased sortie rates, improved weapons
    movement, a redesigned island, a new nuclear power plant design,
    flexibility to incorporate future technologies, and reduced
    manning. In 2008, Shipbuilding was awarded a $5.1 billion
    contract for construction of the first ship of the class, the
    Gerald R. Ford, which is scheduled for delivery in 2015.
    The segment also provides ongoing maintenance for the
    U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet through overhaul,
    refueling, and repair work. In 2009, the completion of the
    refueling and complex overhaul of the USS Carl Vinson was
    followed by the arrival of the USS Theodore Roosevelt,
    which is expected to be redelivered to the U.S. Navy
    following its refueling in early 2013.


 


    Expeditionary Warfare – Shipbuilding is the
    sole provider of amphibious assault ships for the
    U.S. Navy. In 2009, construction of the Wasp class
    multipurpose amphibious assault ship was concluded with the
    delivery of LHD 8. Construction of the
    San Antonio-class continues, with five ships
    delivered from 2005 to 2009 and four currently in construction.
    In 2007, Shipbuilding was awarded the construction contract for
    LHA 6, the first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault
    ships. The first ship of the America-class ships is
    currently under construction and is expected to join the fleet
    in 2013.


 


    Surface Combatants – Shipbuilding designs and
    constructs Arleigh
    Burke-class Aegis-guided
    missile destroyers, as well as major components for the
    Zumwalt-class, a land attack destroyer. Shipbuilding has
    delivered 26 Arleigh Burke destroyers to the
    U.S. Navy, currently has one under construction, and was
    awarded a long-lead time material contract for a restart of the
    Arleigh Burke-class in December 2009. Shipbuilding’s
    participation in the Zumwalt program includes detailed
    design and construction of the ships’ integrated composite
    deckhouses, as well as portions of the ships’ peripheral
    vertical launch systems.


 


    Submarines – Shipbuilding is one of only two
    U.S. companies that designs and builds nuclear-powered
    submarines. In February 1997, the company and Electric Boat, a
    wholly owned subsidiary of General Dynamics Corporation, reached
    an agreement to cooperatively build Virginia-class
    nuclear attack submarines. The initial four submarines in the
    class were delivered in 2004, 2006, and 2008. The construction
    contract for the second block of six Virginia-class
    submarines was awarded in August 2003 and the first two
    submarines under this contract were delivered in 2008 and 2009.
    Construction on the remaining four submarines is underway, with
    the last scheduled to be delivered in 2014. In December 2008,
    the construction contract for the third block of eight
    Virginia-class submarines was awarded. The multi-year
    contract allowed Shipbuilding and its teammate to proceed with
    the construction of one submarine per year in 2009 and 2010, and
    allows for the construction of two submarines per year from 2011
    to 2013. The eighth submarine to be procured under this contract
    is scheduled for delivery in 2019.


 


    Coast Guard & Coastal Defense –
    Shipbuilding is a joint venture partner along with Lockheed
    Martin for the Coast Guard’s Deepwater Modernization
    Program. Shipbuilding has design and production responsibility
    for surface ships. In 2006, the Shipbuilding/Lockheed Martin
    joint venture was awarded a
    43-month
    contract extension for the Deepwater program. The first National
    Security Cutter (NSC), USCGC Berthoff, was delivered to
    the Coast Guard in 2008 followed by the USCGC Waesche
    (NSC-2) in 2009. The Stratton (NSC-3) is currently in
    construction. The construction contract for NSC-4 was awarded in
    November 2010.


 


    Fleet Support – Fleet Support provides
    after-market services, including on-going maintenance and repair
    work, for a wide array of naval and commercial vessels.
    Shipbuilding has ship repair facilities in the
    U.S. Navy’s largest homeports of Norfolk, Virginia,
    and San Diego, California.


 


    Services & Other – Shipbuilding
    provides various services to commercial nuclear and non-nuclear
    industrial customers. In January 2008, Savannah River Nuclear
    Solutions, a joint venture among Shipbuilding, Fluor
    Corporation, and Honeywell, was awarded a contract for site
    management and operations of the U.S. Department of
    Energy’s Savannah River Site in Aiken, South Carolina. In
    October 2008, Shipbuilding





    
    -5-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    announced the formation of a joint venture with AREVA NP to
    build a new manufacturing and engineering facility in Newport
    News, Virginia to help supply the growing American nuclear
    energy sector.


 



    TECHNICAL
    SERVICES


 


    Technical Services, headquartered in Herndon, Virginia, is a
    provider of logistics, infrastructure, and sustainment support,
    while also providing a wide array of technical services
    including training and simulation. The segment consists of three
    business areas: Defense and Government Services; Training
    Solutions, and Integrated Logistics and Modernization.


 


    Defense and Government Services – provides
    logistics, maintenance and reconstitution services, as well as
    civil engineering work, aerial and ground range operations in
    support of the military, technical support functions which
    include space launch services, construction, protective and
    emergency services, and range-sensor-instrumentation operations.
    Primary customers include the Department of Energy (DoE), the
    DoD, the Department of Homeland Security, and the
    U.S. intelligence community, in both domestic and
    international locations.


 


    Training Solutions – provides training across
    the live, virtual and constructive domains to both the
    U.S. military and International peacekeeping forces,
    designs and develops future conflict training scenarios, and
    provides U.S. warfighters and allies with tactics,
    techniques and procedures to be successful on the battlefield.
    This business area also offers diverse training applications
    ranging from battle command to professional military education.
    Primary customers include the DoD, Department of State, and
    Department of Homeland Security.


 


    Integrated Logistics and Modernization –
    provides life cycle product support and weapons system
    sustainment. This business area is focused on providing
    Performance Based Logistical support to the warfighter including
    supply chain management services, warehousing and inventory
    transportation, field services and mobilization, sustaining
    engineering, maintenance, repair and overhaul, and ongoing
    weapon maintenance and technical assistance. The group
    specializes in performing Contractor Logistics Support of both
    original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and third party aviation
    platforms involving maintenance, modification, modernization and
    rebuilding essential parts and assemblies. Primary customers
    include the DoD as well as international military and commercial
    customers.


 



    Corporate





    Our principal executive offices are located at 1840 Century Park
    East, Los Angeles, California 90067. Our telephone number is
    (310) 553-6262
    and our home page on the Internet is
    www.northropgrumman.com.  References to our
    website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not
    constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by
    reference of the information contained on, or available through,
    the website. Therefore, such information should not be
    considered part of this report. See Properties in Part I,
    Item 2.


 



    SUMMARY
    SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA


 


    For a more complete understanding of our segment financial
    information, see Segment Operating Results in Part II,
    Item 7, and Note 8 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8.


 



    CUSTOMERS
    AND REVENUE CONCENTRATION


 


    Our primary customer is the U.S. Government. Revenue from
    the U.S. Government (which includes Foreign Military Sales)
    accounted for approximately 92 percent of total revenues in
    2010, 2009, and 2008. No single product or service accounted for
    more than ten percent of total revenue during any period
    presented. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.




    
    -6-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 




    PATENTS


 


    The following table summarizes the number of patents we own or
    have pending as of December 31, 2010:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Owned
    


 


    Pending
    


 


    Total






    U.S. patents



 


 


    3,192


 


 


 


    329


 


 


 


    3,521


 





    Foreign patents



 


 


    2,355


 


 


 


    553


 


 


 


    2,908


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    5,547


 


 


 


    882


 


 


 


    6,429


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Patents developed while under contract with the
    U.S. Government may be subject to use by the
    U.S. Government. We license intellectual property to, and
    from, third parties. We believe our ability to conduct
    operations would not be materially affected by the loss of any
    particular intellectual property right. See Risk Factors in
    Part I, Item 1A.


 



    SEASONALITY


 


    No material portion of our business is considered to be
    seasonal. Our revenue recognition timing is based on several
    factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence
    of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. See
    Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and
    Judgments – Revenue Recognition in Part II,
    Item 7.


 



    BACKLOG


 


    At December 31, 2010, total backlog was $64.2 billion
    compared with $69.2 billion at the end of 2009.
    Approximately 47 percent of backlog at December 31,
    2010, is expected to be converted into sales in 2011.


 


    Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for
    which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and
    unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently
    contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog
    excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded indefinite
    delivery indefinite quantity (IDIQ) orders. For multi-year
    services contracts with non-federal government customers having
    no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts
    committed by the customer. Backlog is converted into sales as
    work is performed or deliveries are made. For backlog by segment
    see Backlog in Part II, Item 7.


 



    RAW
    MATERIALS


 


    The most significant raw material we require is steel, used
    primarily for shipbuilding. We have mitigated some supply risk
    by negotiating long-term agreements with a number of steel
    suppliers. In addition, we have mitigated price risk related to
    steel purchases through certain contractual arrangements with
    the U.S. Government. While we have generally been able to
    obtain key raw materials required in our production processes in
    a timely manner, a significant delay in supply deliveries could
    have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
    position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Risk Factors
    in Part I, Item 1A and Overview – Outlook in
    Part II, Item 7.


 



    GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION


 


    Our businesses are affected by numerous laws and regulations
    relating to the award, administration and performance of
    U.S. Government contracts. See Risk Factors in Part I,
    Item 1A.


 


    The U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate
    our contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for
    convenience or for default based on performance. If any of our
    U.S. Government contracts were to be terminated for
    convenience, we would generally be protected by provisions
    covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and
    profit on those costs, but not the anticipated profit that would
    have been earned had the contract been completed. In the rare
    circumstance where a U.S. Government contract does not have
    such termination protection, we attempt to mitigate the
    termination risk through other means. Termination resulting from
    our default may expose us to liability and could have a material
    adverse effect on our ability to compete for contracts. See Risk
    Factors in Part I, Item 1A.




    
    -7-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Certain programs with the U.S. Government that are
    prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in
    detail are referred to as “restricted” in this
    Form 10-K.
    The consolidated financial statements and financial information
    in this
    Form 10-K
    reflect the operating results of restricted programs under
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America (GAAP). See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.


 



    RESEARCH
    AND DEVELOPMENT


 


    Our research and development activities primarily include
    independent research and development (IR&D) efforts related
    to government programs. IR&D expenses are included in
    general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated
    to U.S. Government contracts. IR&D expenses totaled
    $603 million, $610 million, and $564 million in
    2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. We charge expenses for
    research and development sponsored by the customer directly to
    the related contracts.


 



    EMPLOYEE
    RELATIONS


 


    We believe that we maintain good relations with our
    117,100 employees, of which approximately 20 percent
    are covered by 32 collective bargaining agreements. We
    negotiated or re-negotiated twelve of our collective bargaining
    agreements in 2010. These negotiations had no material adverse
    effect on our results of operations. For risks associated with
    collective bargaining agreements, see Risk Factors in
    Part I, Item 1A.


 



    ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS


 


    Our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by
    federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations relating
    to the protection of the environment. We provide for the
    estimated cost to complete environmental remediation where we
    determine it is probable that we will incur such costs in the
    future to address environmental impacts at currently or formerly
    owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are
    named a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similarly
    designated by other environmental agencies. These estimates may
    change given the inherent difficulty in estimating environmental
    cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the
    uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup,
    determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of
    laws, regulations, and their interpretations.


 


    We assess the potential impact on our financial statements by
    estimating the possible remediation costs that we could
    reasonably incur on a
    site-by-site
    basis. These estimates consider our environmental
    engineers’ professional judgment and, when necessary, we
    consult with outside environmental specialists. In most
    instances, we can only estimate a range of reasonably possible
    costs. We accrue our best estimate when determinable or the
    minimum amount when no single amount is more probable. We record
    accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting
    period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability
    and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We record insurance
    recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable.
    Our environmental remediation accruals do not include any
    litigation costs related to environmental matters, nor do they
    include any amounts recorded as asset retirement obligations.


 


    We estimate that at December 31, 2010, the range of
    reasonably possible future costs for environmental remediation
    sites is $280 million to $674 million, of which we
    accrued $109 million in other current liabilities and
    $207 million in other long-term liabilities in the
    consolidated statements of financial position. We record
    environmental accruals on an undiscounted basis. At sites
    involving multiple parties, we provide environmental accruals
    based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account
    the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. We
    expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate.
    Capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in
    currently operating facilities. We may have to incur costs in
    addition to those already estimated and accrued if other PRPs do
    not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could
    have a material effect on our consolidated financial position,
    results of operations, or cash flows. We have made the
    investments we believe necessary to comply with environmental
    laws.




    
    -8-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    We could be affected by future laws or regulations, including
    those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other
    actions known as “green initiatives.” We established a
    goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions over a five-year
    period through December 31, 2014. To comply with existing
    green initiatives and our greenhouse gas emissions goal, we
    expect to incur capital and operating costs, but at this time we
    do not expect that such costs will have a material adverse
    effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows.


 



    COMPETITIVE
    CONDITIONS


 


    We compete with many companies in the U.S. defense industry
    and the information and services markets for a number of
    programs, both large and small. In the U.S. defense
    industry, Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company,
    Raytheon Company, General Dynamics Corporation, L-3
    Communications Corporation, SAIC, and BAE Systems Inc. are our
    primary competitors. Intense competition and long operating
    cycles are both key characteristics of our business and the
    defense industry. It is common in the defense industry for work
    on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A
    company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate
    award of the contract to another competitor, become a
    subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. It is
    not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company
    and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of
    that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa. The
    nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding
    contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a
    level of program continuity not frequently found in other
    industries.


 


    Our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our
    ability to develop and market our products and services, as well
    as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities,
    equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those
    products and services affordably and efficiently. Like most of
    our competitors, we are vertically integrated but also have a
    high reliance on the supply chain. We must continue to maintain
    dependable sources for raw materials, fabricated parts,
    electronic components, and major subassemblies. In this
    increasingly complex manufacturing and systems integration
    environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers
    is vital to our success.


 


    Similarly, there is intense competition among many companies in
    the information and services markets, which are generally more
    labor intensive with highly competitive margin rates and
    contract performance periods of shorter duration. Competitors in
    the information and services markets include the defense
    industry participants mentioned above as well as many other
    large and small entities with specialized expertise. Our ability
    to successfully compete in the information and services markets
    depends on a number of factors. The most important factor is the
    ability to deploy skilled professionals, many requiring security
    clearances, at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of
    these markets. Accordingly, we have implemented various
    workforce initiatives to ensure our success in attracting,
    developing and retaining these skilled professionals in
    sufficient numbers to maintain or improve our competitive
    position within these markets.


 


    In both the U.S. defense industry and information and
    services markets, the federal government has recently indicated
    that it intends to increase industry competition for its future
    procurement of products and services. This may lead to fewer
    sole source awards and more emphasis on cost competitiveness and
    affordability than in the past. In addition, the DoD has
    announced several initiatives to improve efficiency, refocus
    priorities and enhance DoD best practices including those used
    to procure goods and services from defense contractors. See
    Overview in Part II, Item 7, and Risk Factors in
    Part I, Item 1A. These new initiatives, when
    implemented, could result in fewer new opportunities for our
    industry as a whole, and a reduced opportunity set would in turn
    intensify competition within the industry as companies compete
    for a more limited set of new programs.


 



    EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS


 


    See Part III, Item 10, for information about our
    executive officers.




    
    -9-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 




    AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION


 


    Throughout this
    Form 10-K,
    we incorporate by reference information from parts of other
    documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (SEC). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by
    referring to it in this manner, and you should review this
    information in addition to the information contained in this
    report.


 


    Our annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and proxy statement for the annual shareholders’ meeting,
    as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free
    of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable
    after we file them with the SEC. You can learn more about us by
    reviewing our SEC filings in the investor relations page on our
    web site at www.northropgrumman.com.


 


    The SEC also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy statements and other information about
    SEC registrants, including Northrop Grumman. You may also obtain
    these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You
    can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
    Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.



 



    Item 1A.
    Risk Factors


 


    Our consolidated financial position, results of operations and
    cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not
    exclusively within our control, that may cause actual
    performance to differ materially from historical or projected
    future performance. We urge you to carefully consider the risk
    factors described below in evaluating the information contained
    in this report.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    We depend heavily on a single customer, the U.S.
    Government, for a substantial portion of our business, including
    programs subject to security classification restrictions on
    information, and changes affecting this customer’s ability
    to do business with us could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial position, results of operations, or cash
    flows.





 


    The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to
    congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes.
    For many programs, Congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year
    basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal
    years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded
    initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress
    makes further appropriations. We cannot predict the extent to
    which total funding
    and/or
    funding for individual programs will be included, increased or
    reduced as part of the 2011 and subsequent budgets ultimately
    approved by Congress or be included in the scope of separate
    supplemental appropriations. The entire federal government is
    currently funded under a Continuing Resolution until
    March 4, 2011. The impact, severity and duration of the
    current U.S. economic situation, the sweeping economic
    plans adopted by the U.S. Government, and pressures on the
    federal budget could also adversely affect the total funding
    and/or
    funding for individual programs. In the event that
    appropriations for any of our programs becomes unavailable, or
    is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such
    program may be terminated or adjusted by the
    U.S. Government, which could have a material adverse effect
    on our future sales under such program, and on our financial
    position, results of operations, or cash flows.


 


    We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in
    priorities due to military transformation and planning
    and/or the
    nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or
    replacement programs. A shift of government priorities to
    programs in which we do not participate
    and/or
    reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in
    which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and
    opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.


 


    In addition, the U.S. Government generally has the ability
    to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior
    notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. In
    the event of termination for the U.S. Government’s
    convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions
    covering





    
    -10-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on
    those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been
    earned had the contract been completed. In the rare circumstance
    where a U.S. government contract does not have such
    termination protection, we attempt to mitigate the termination
    risk through other means. To the extent such means are
    unavailable or do not fully address the costs incurred or profit
    on those costs, we could face significant losses from the
    termination for convenience of a contract that lacks termination
    protection. Termination by the U.S. Government of a
    contract for convenience could also result in the cancellation
    of future work on that program. Termination by the
    U.S. Government of a contract due to our default could
    require us to pay for re-procurement costs in excess of the
    original contract price, net of the value of work accepted from
    the original contract. Termination of a contract due to our
    default may expose us to liability and could have a material
    adverse effect on our ability to compete for contracts.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a
    number of procurement regulations and could be adversely
    affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from
    a U.S. Government audit or investigation.





 


    U.S. Government contractors must comply with many
    significant procurement regulations and other requirements.
    These regulations and requirements, although customary in
    government contracts, increase our performance and compliance
    costs. If any such regulations or procurement requirements
    change, our costs of complying with them could increase and
    reduce our margins.


 


    We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely
    audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its
    agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and
    Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). These agencies review
    our performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our
    compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as
    well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal
    control systems and policies. Systems that are subject to review
    include, but are not limited to, our accounting systems,
    purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and
    control systems, cost estimating systems, compensation systems
    and management information systems. Any costs found to be
    unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will
    not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If
    an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be
    subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative
    sanctions, which may include termination of contracts,
    forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and
    suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the
    U.S. Government. Whether or not illegal activities are
    alleged, the U.S. Government also has the ability to
    decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems
    subject to its review to be inadequate. In addition, we could
    suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety
    were made against us.


 


    The U.S. Government, from time to time, recommends to its
    contractors that certain contract prices be reduced, or that
    costs allocated to certain contracts be disallowed. These
    recommendations can involve substantial amounts. In the past, as
    a result of such audits and other investigations and inquiries,
    we have on occasion made adjustments to our contract prices and
    the costs allocated to our government contracts.


 


    We are also, from time to time, subject to U.S. Government
    investigations relating to our operations, and we are subject to
    or expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of
    federal laws, including but not limited to the Truth in
    Negotiations Act, the False Claims Act, the Procurement
    Integrity Act, Cost Accounting Standards, the International
    Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export
    Control Act, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act and the
    Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If we are convicted or otherwise
    found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted
    responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to
    reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or
    termination and the assessment of penalties and fines,
    compensatory or treble damages, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations,
    or cash flows. Such findings or convictions could also result in
    suspension or debarment from government contracting. Given our
    dependence on





    
    -11-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    government contracting, suspension or debarment could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
    operations, or cash flows.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Department of Defense has announced plans for
    significant changes to its business practices that could have a
    material effect on its overall procurement process and adversely
    impact our current programs and potential new awards.





 


    In September 2010, the DoD announced various initiatives
    designed to gain efficiencies, refocus priorities and enhance
    business practices used by the DoD, including those used to
    procure goods and services from defense contractors. These
    initiatives are organized into five major areas: affordability
    and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition;
    services acquisition; and processes and bureaucracy. These new
    initiatives are expected to have a significant impact on the
    contracting environment in which we do business with our DoD
    customers and they could have a significant impact on current
    programs as well as new DoD business opportunities. In his
    January 6, 2011, announcement regarding future plans, the
    Secretary of Defense employed some of these initiatives to
    reduce costs and free up resources for reinvestment. For
    example, he discussed using multi-year procurement of Navy
    aircraft, information technology infrastructure streamlining,
    reductions in outsourcing, consolidation of operating centers
    and staffs, improving depot and supply chain processes,
    downsizing intelligence organizations, and eliminating some
    elements of the DoD’s bureaucracy. Changes to the DoD
    acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether
    and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms
    under which we are able to do so. These initiatives are still
    fairly new and the full impact to our business remains uncertain
    and subject to the manner in which the DoD implements them.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Competition within our markets and an increase in bid
    protests may reduce our revenues and market share.





 


    We operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may
    have more extensive or more specialized engineering,
    manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some
    areas. We anticipate higher competition in some of our core
    markets as a result of the reduction in budgets for many
    U.S. Government agencies and fewer new program starts. In
    addition, as discussed in more detail above, projected
    U.S. defense spending levels for periods beyond the
    near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. Changes in
    U.S. defense spending may limit certain future market
    opportunities. We are also facing increasing competition in our
    domestic and international markets from foreign and
    multinational firms. Additionally, some customers, including the
    DoD, may turn to commercial contractors, rather than traditional
    defense contractors, for information technology and other
    support work. If we are unable to continue to compete
    successfully against our current or future competitors, we may
    experience declines in revenues and market share which could
    negatively impact our financial position, results of operations,
    or cash flows.


 


    The competitive environment is also affected by bid protests
    from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. Bid protests
    could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a
    re-bid of the contract. Even where a bid protest does not result
    in a re-bid, the resolution typically extends the time until the
    contract activity can begin, which may reduce our earnings in
    the period in which the contract would otherwise have commenced.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to
    develop new products and new technologies and maintain
    technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to
    meet the needs of current and future customers.





 


    The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly
    changing technologies. The product, program and service needs of
    our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our
    success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our
    ability to develop and market our products and services, as well
    as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities,
    equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those
    products and services with maximum efficiency. If we fail to
    maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant
    amount of future business to our competitors, which would have a
    material adverse effect on our ability to generate favorable
    financial results and maintain market share.


 


    Operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to
    attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skills
    and/or
    security clearances. If qualified personnel become scarce, we
    could experience higher





    
    -12-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and
    retain such employees or could experience difficulty in
    performing under our contracts if the needs for such employees
    are unmet.


 


    Approximately 20 percent of our 117,100 employees are
    covered by an aggregate of 32 collective bargaining agreements.
    We expect to re-negotiate renewals of four of our collective
    bargaining agreements in 2011. Collective bargaining agreements
    generally expire after three to five years and are subject to
    renegotiation at that time. We may experience difficulties with
    renewals and renegotiations of existing collective bargaining
    agreements. If we experience such difficulties, we could incur
    additional expenses and work stoppages. Any such expenses or
    delays could adversely affect programs served by employees who
    are covered by collective bargaining agreements.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Many of our contracts contain performance obligations that
    require innovative design capabilities, are technologically
    complex, require
    state-of-the-art
    manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly
    within our control. Failure to meet these obligations could
    adversely affect our profitability and future prospects.





 


    We design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and
    innovative products and services applied by our customers in a
    variety of environments. Problems and delays in development or
    delivery as a result of issues with respect to design,
    technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve
    assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from
    achieving contractual requirements.


 


    In addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all
    situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems.
    Examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect
    revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft,
    premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair
    or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country
    of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and
    unplanned degradation of product performance. These failures
    could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or
    property. Among the factors that may affect revenue and profits
    could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance
    or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management
    focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on
    work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the
    government customer of contract cost and fee payments we
    previously received.


 


    Certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems,
    contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in
    the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon
    launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period
    of time. Under such terms, we could be required to forfeit fees
    previously recognized
    and/or
    collected. We have not experienced any material losses in the
    last decade in connection with such contract performance
    incentive provisions. However, if we were to experience launch
    failures or complete satellite system failures in the future,
    such events could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts
    that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due
    from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and the
    potential loss of future business.





 


    Our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain
    contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that
    cannot be billed to customers. This cost growth can occur if
    estimates to complete increase due to technical challenges,
    manufacturing difficulties or delays, or workforce-related
    issues, or if initial estimates used for calculating the
    contract cost were incorrect. The cost estimation process
    requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost
    growth may include unavailability or reduced productivity of
    labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed,
    the timelines and availability of materials, major subcontractor
    performance and quality of their products, the effect of any
    delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from
    the customer, natural disasters and the inability to recover any
    claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant
    change in cost estimates on one or





    
    -13-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    more programs could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows.


 


    Most of our contracts are firm fixed-price contracts or flexibly
    priced contracts. Our risk varies with the type of contract.
    Flexibly priced contracts include both cost-type and fixed-price
    incentive contracts. Due to their nature, firm fixed-price
    contracts inherently have more risk than flexibly priced
    contracts. Approximately 33 percent of our annual revenues
    are derived from firm fixed-price contracts – see
    Contracts in Part II, Item 7. We typically enter into
    firm fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably
    estimated based on experience. In addition, our contracts
    contain provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights.
    Should the terms specified in our contracts not be met, then
    profitability may be reduced. Fixed-price development work
    comprises a small portion of our firm fixed-price contracts and
    inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than
    production contracts and therefore more variability in estimates
    of the costs to complete the development stage. As work
    progresses through the development stage into production, the
    risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract
    are generally reduced. In addition, successful performance of
    firm fixed-price development contracts that include production
    units is subject to our ability to control cost growth in
    meeting production specifications and delivery rates. While
    management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated
    with fixed-price development contracts, future events could
    result in either upward or downward adjustments to those
    estimates.


 


    Under a fixed-price incentive contract, the allowable costs
    incurred by the contractor are subject to reimbursement, but are
    subject to a cost-share limit which affects profitability.
    Contracts in Shipbuilding are often fixed-price incentive
    contracts for production of a first item without a separate
    development contract. Accordingly, we face the additional
    difficulty of estimating production costs on a product that has
    not yet been designed. Further, Shipbuilding sometimes enters
    into follow-on fixed-price contracts after a significant delay
    from the first production request, and the passage of time makes
    it more difficult for us to accurately estimate costs for
    renewed production.


 


    Under a cost-type contract the allowable costs incurred by the
    contractor are also subject to reimbursement plus a fee that
    represents profit. We enter into cost-type contracts for
    development programs with complex design and technical
    challenges. These cost-type programs typically have award or
    incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned
    over extended periods. In these cases the associated financial
    risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program
    cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues
    arise.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our earnings and margins depend, in part, on our ability
    to perform under contracts.





 


    When agreeing to contractual terms, our management makes
    assumptions and projections about future conditions and events,
    many of which extend over long periods. These projections assess
    the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of
    the work to be performed, the cost and availability of
    materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of
    product deliveries. If there is a significant change in one or
    more of these circumstances or estimates, or if we face
    unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of one or more
    of these contracts may be adversely affected.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our earnings and margins depend, in part, on subcontractor
    performance as well as raw material and component availability
    and pricing.





 


    We rely on other companies to provide raw materials and major
    components for our products and rely on subcontractors to
    produce hardware elements and
    sub-assemblies
    and perform some of the services that we provide to our
    customers. Disruptions or performance problems caused by our
    subcontractors and vendors could have an adverse effect on our
    ability to meet our commitments to customers. Our ability to
    perform our obligations as a prime contractor could be adversely
    affected if one or more of the vendors or subcontractors are
    unable to provide the
    agreed-upon
    products or materials or perform the
    agreed-upon
    services in a timely and cost-effective manner.




    
    -14-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Our costs may increase over the term of our contracts. Through
    cost escalation provisions contained in some of our
    U.S. Government contracts, we may be protected from
    increases in material costs to the extent that the increases in
    our costs are in line with industry indices. However, the
    difference in basis between our actual material costs and these
    indices may expose us to cost uncertainty even with these
    provisions. A significant delay in supply deliveries of our key
    raw materials required in our production processes could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
    operations, or cash flows.


 


    In connection with our government contracts, we are required to
    procure certain materials, components and parts from supply
    sources approved by the U.S. Government. There are
    currently several components for which there may be only one
    supplier. The inability of a sole source supplier to meet our
    needs could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    position, results of operations, or cash flows.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our business is subject to disruption caused by natural
    disasters, environmental disasters and other factors that could
    adversely affect our profitability and our overall financial
    position.





 


    We have significant operations located in regions of the
    U.S. that may be exposed to damaging storms and other
    natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes, and
    environmental disasters, such as oil spills. Although
    preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage
    and disruption resulting from natural and environmental
    disasters may be significant. Should insurance or other risk
    transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover
    all costs, we could experience a material adverse effect on our
    financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.


 


    Our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural
    disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform
    under a contract. Performance failures by our subcontractors due
    to natural and environmental disasters may adversely affect our
    ability to perform our obligations on the prime contract, which
    could reduce our profitability due to damages or other costs
    that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor or from
    the customer and could result in a termination of the prime
    contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete
    for future contracts.


 


    Natural disasters can also disrupt our workforce, electrical and
    other power distribution networks, including computer and
    internet operation and accessibility, and the critical
    industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations.
    These disruptions could cause adverse effects on our
    profitability and performance. Environmental disasters,
    particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used
    for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the
    timing of our performance under our contracts with the
    U.S. Navy and the U.S. Coast Guard.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    We use estimates when accounting for contracts. Changes in
    estimates could affect our profitability and our overall
    financial position.





 


    Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing
    risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making
    assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size
    and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total
    revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to
    many variables. For example, assumptions have to be made
    regarding the length of time to complete the contract because
    costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for
    materials. Similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the
    future impact of our self-imposed efficiency initiatives and
    cost reduction efforts. Incentives, awards or penalties related
    to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue
    and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient
    information to assess anticipated performance.


 


    Because of the significance of the judgment and estimation
    processes described above, it is possible that materially
    different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions
    were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change.
    Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates
    may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial
    reporting and performance. See Critical Accounting Policies,
    Estimates, and Judgments in Part II, Item 7.




    
    -15-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our international business exposes us to additional
    risks.





 


    Although our international business constitutes only
    5 percent of total revenues, we are subject to numerous
    U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without
    limitation, regulations relating to import-export control,
    technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings,
    exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the
    anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration
    Act. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants
    to comply with these laws and regulations could result in
    administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could, in the
    extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government
    contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could
    have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in regulation or
    political environment may affect our ability to conduct business
    in foreign markets, including investment, procurement and
    repatriation of earnings.


 


    The services and products we provide internationally, including
    through the use of subcontractors, are sometimes in countries
    with unstable governments, in areas of military conflict or at
    military installations. This increases the risk of an incident
    resulting in damage or destruction to our products or resulting
    in injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or
    other third parties. We maintain insurance to mitigate risk and
    potential liabilities related to our international operations,
    but our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover these
    claims and liabilities and we may be forced to bear substantial
    costs arising from those claims. (See additional discussion of
    possible inadequacy of our insurance coverage below). In
    addition, any accidents or incidents that occur in connection
    with our international operations could result in negative
    publicity for the company, which may adversely affect our
    reputation and make it more difficult for us to compete for
    future contracts or result in the loss of existing and future
    contracts. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict,
    but any one or more of them could adversely affect our financial
    position, results of operations, or cash flows.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our reputation and our ability to do business may be
    impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or
    business partners.





 


    We have implemented extensive compliance controls, policies and
    procedures to prevent and detect reckless or criminal acts
    committed by employees, agents or business partners that would
    violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate,
    including laws governing payments to government officials,
    security clearance breaches, cost accounting and billing,
    competition and data privacy. However, we cannot ensure that we
    will prevent all such reckless or criminal acts committed by our
    employees, agents or business partners. Any improper actions
    could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and
    monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material
    adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results
    of operations and our reputation.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our business could be negatively impacted by security
    threats and other disruptions.





 


    As a defense contractor, we face certain security threats,
    including threats to our information technology infrastructure
    and unlawful attempts to gain access to our proprietary or
    classified information. Our information technology networks and
    related systems are critical to the smooth operation of our
    business and essential to our ability to perform
    day-to-day
    operations. Loss of security within this critical operational
    infrastructure could disrupt our operations, require significant
    management attention and resources and could have a material
    adverse effect on our performance.


 


    We also manage information technology systems for various
    customers. While we maintain information security policies and
    procedures for managing these systems, we generally face the
    same security threats for these systems as for our own systems.
    Computer viruses, attempts to gain access to our customers’
    data or other electronic security breaches could lead to
    disruptions in mission critical systems for our customers,
    unauthorized release of confidential or personally identifiable
    information and corruption of customer data.





    
    -16-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial
    losses from remedial actions we must take, potential liability
    to customers and litigation expenses.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our nuclear operations subject us to various
    environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks.





 


    The development and operation of nuclear-powered aircraft
    carriers, nuclear-powered submarines, nuclear facilities and
    other nuclear operations subject us to various risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        n   

    
    potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the
    environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations
    and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials;




 



     
        n   

    
    unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation,
    security and repair, including repairs required by the Nuclear
    Regulatory Commission;




 



     
        n   

    
    reputational harm; and




 



     
        n   

    
    potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether
    or not it is within our control.





 


    The U.S. Government provides indemnity protection against
    specified risks under our contracts pursuant to Public Law
    85-804 and
    the Price-Anderson Nuclear Industries Indemnity Act for certain
    of our nuclear operations risks. Our nuclear operations are
    subject to various safety-related requirements imposed by the
    U.S. Navy, DoE, and Nuclear Regulatory Commission. In the
    event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory
    oversight, impose fines or shut down our operations, depending
    upon the assessment of the severity of the situation. Revised
    security and safety requirements promulgated by these agencies
    could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures.
    Additionally, while we maintain insurance for certain risks
    related to transportation of low level nuclear materials and
    waste, such as contaminated clothing, and for regulatory changes
    in the health, safety and fire protection areas, there can be no
    assurances that such insurance will be sufficient to cover our
    costs in the event of an accident or business interruption
    relating to our nuclear operations, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations,
    or cash flows.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Unforeseen environmental costs could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations,
    or cash flows.





 


    Our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of
    federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws
    and regulations. In addition, we could be affected by future
    laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to
    climate change concerns and other actions commonly referred to
    as “green initiatives.” Compliance with current and
    future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and
    is expected to continue to require significant operating and
    capital costs.


 


    Environmental laws and regulations can impose substantial fines
    and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the
    installation of costly pollution control equipment or
    operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges
    and/or
    decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance
    releases. We also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs
    to comply with current federal and state environmental laws and
    regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously
    released into the environment. In addition, if we were found to
    be in violation of the Federal Clean Air Act or the Clean Water
    Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could
    be placed by the EPA on the “Excluded Parties List”
    maintained by the General Services Administration. The listing
    would continue until the EPA concludes that the cause of the
    violation had been cured. Listed facilities cannot be used in
    performing any U.S. Government contract while they are
    listed by the EPA.


 


    The adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement
    of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup
    requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive
    contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our
    ability to recover such costs under previously priced contracts
    or





    
    -17-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us
    to incur costs in the future that would have a material adverse
    effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash
    flows.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    We are subject to various claims and litigation that could
    ultimately be resolved against us. Resolution of these matters
    may require material future cash payments and/or future material
    charges against our operating income.





 


    The size, type and complexity of our business make us highly
    susceptible to claims and litigation. We are and may become
    subject to various environmental claims, income tax matters and
    other litigation, which, if not resolved within established
    reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows. See Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3,
    Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments in
    Part II, Item 7 and Note 15 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Any claims
    and litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could
    negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the
    public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively
    or obtain adequate insurance in the future.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual
    property rights, which could affect our ability to
    compete.





 


    We own many U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks,
    copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property. The
    U.S. Government has rights to use certain intellectual
    property that we develop in performance of government contracts,
    and it may use or authorize others to use such intellectual
    property. Our intellectual property is subject to challenge,
    invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties.


 


    We also rely significantly upon proprietary technology,
    information, processes and know-how that are not protected by
    patents. We seek to protect this information through trade
    secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees,
    consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as
    through other security measures. These agreements and security
    measures may not provide meaningful protection for our
    unpatented proprietary information. In the event of an
    infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a
    confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary
    information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain
    our intellectual property. Litigation to determine the scope of
    intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful,
    could be costly and could divert management’s attention
    away from other aspects of our business. In addition, our trade
    secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed
    by competitors.


 


    In some instances, we have licensed the proprietary intellectual
    property of others, but we may be unable in the future to secure
    the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on
    commercially reasonable terms.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of
    our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of
    material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our
    profitability and overall financial position.





 


    We endeavor to identify and obtain in established markets
    insurance agreements to cover significant risks and liabilities
    (including, for example, natural disasters and product
    liability). Not every risk or liability can be protected by
    insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage
    reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to
    cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred, including for
    example, a catastrophic earthquake claim. In some, but not all,
    circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the
    U.S. Government. Because of the limitations in overall
    available coverage referred to above, we may have to bear
    substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have an
    adverse effect upon our financial position, results of
    operations, or cash flows. Additionally, disputes with insurance
    carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows and,
    if litigation with the carrier becomes necessary, an outcome
    unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our
    financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We
    commenced legal action against an insurance carrier arising out
    of a disagreement concerning the coverage of certain losses
    related to Hurricane Katrina, and another carrier has denied
    coverage for certain other losses related to





    
    -18-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Hurricane Katrina and advised us that it will seek reimbursement
    of certain amounts previously advanced by that carrier. See
    Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Changes in future business conditions could cause business
    investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired,
    resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would
    reduce our operating income.





 


    As part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time,
    acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. These
    investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence
    procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic
    objective. These procedures often involve certain assumptions
    and judgment in determining acquisition price. Even after
    careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary
    significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounts for
    approximately half of our recorded total assets. We evaluate
    goodwill amounts for impairment annually, or when evidence of
    potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based
    on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a
    significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market
    conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded
    goodwill. Adverse equity market conditions that result in a
    decline in market multiples and our stock price could result in
    an impairment of goodwill
    and/or other
    intangible assets. We continue to monitor the recoverability of
    the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets.
    See Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments in
    Part II, Item 7.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint
    ventures or strategic alliances may not be realized.





 


    As part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time,
    merge with or acquire businesses, or form joint ventures or
    create strategic alliances. Whether we realize the anticipated
    benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the
    integration between the businesses involved, the performance of
    the underlying products, capabilities or technologies and the
    management of the transacted operations. Accordingly, our
    financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated
    performance issues, transaction-related charges, amortization of
    expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of
    long-term assets and partner performance. Although we believe
    that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and
    processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that
    these transactions will be successful.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    We are exploring strategic alternatives for our
    Shipbuilding segment. We cannot assure you that a transaction
    will result, or that, if completed, we would realize the
    anticipated benefits thereof.





 


    In July 2010, we announced that we are evaluating strategic
    alternatives for the Shipbuilding segment, including, but not
    limited to, a spin-off to our shareholders. In preparation for
    an anticipated spin-off of the Shipbuilding business to our
    shareholders, a registration statement on Form 10 for the
    shares of our wholly owned subsidiary, Huntington Ingalls
    Industries, Inc., the entity that would hold the shipbuilding
    business, was initially filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission in October 2010, with amendments filed in November
    2010, December 2010, and January 2011. We cannot assure you that
    the exploration of these strategic alternatives will result in
    any transaction. Our ability to complete a transaction involving
    the Shipbuilding segment in a timely manner, or even at all,
    could be subject to several factors, including: changes in the
    company’s operating performance; our ability to obtain any
    necessary consents or approvals; changes in governmental
    regulations and policies; and changes in business, political and
    economic conditions in the United States. As a condition of an
    anticipated spin-off, we have obtained a private letter ruling
    from the Internal Revenue Service and expect to receive an
    opinion of counsel that the spin-off will be tax-free to the
    company and our shareholders but can give no assurance that any
    anticipated spin-off will ultimately qualify as a tax-free
    transaction. If a transaction involving the Shipbuilding segment
    is delayed for any reason, we may not realize the anticipated
    benefits, and if a transaction does not occur, we will not
    realize such benefits. Each of these risks could adversely
    affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash
    flows.




    
    -19-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Market volatility and adverse capital and credit market
    conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective
    sources of funding and expose us to risks associated with the
    financial viability of suppliers and the ability of
    counterparties to perform on financial instruments.





 


    The financial and credit markets recently experienced high
    levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability
    of credit for certain issuers. Historically, we have
    occasionally accessed these markets to support certain business
    activities, including acquisitions, capital expansion projects,
    refinancing existing debt and issuing letters of credit. In the
    future, we may not be able to obtain capital market financing or
    bank financing when needed on favorable terms, or at all, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial position,
    results of operations, or cash flows.


 


    A tightening of credit could also adversely affect our
    suppliers’ ability to obtain financing. Delays in
    suppliers’ ability to obtain financing, or the
    unavailability of financing, could cause us to be unable to meet
    our contract obligations and could adversely affect our
    financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The
    inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could also result
    in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which
    could result in significant incremental cost and delay.


 


    We have executed transactions with counterparties in the
    financial services industry, including brokers and dealers,
    commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional
    parties. These transactions expose us to potential credit risk
    in the event of counterparty default.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Pension and medical expenses associated with our
    retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending
    upon changes in actuarial assumptions, future market performance
    of plan assets, future trends in health care costs and
    legislative or other regulatory actions.





 


    A substantial portion of our current and retired employee
    population is covered by pension and post-retirement benefit
    plans, the costs of which are dependent upon our various
    assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit
    related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations,
    rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. In
    addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our
    pension and post-retirement benefit plans are subject to
    legislative and other government regulatory actions.


 


    Variances from these estimates could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash
    flows. For example, the recent volatility in the financial
    markets resulted in lower than expected returns on our pension
    plan assets in 2008, which resulted in higher pension costs in
    subsequent years. See Note 17 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8.


 


    Additionally, due to government regulations, pension plan cost
    recoveries under our government contracts may occur in different
    periods from when those pension costs are accrued for financial
    statement purposes or when pension funding is made. Timing
    differences between pension costs accrued for financial
    statement purposes or when pension funding occurs compared to
    when such costs are recoverable as allowable costs under our
    government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our
    cash flow from operations. In May 2010, the U.S. Cost
    Accounting Standards Board published a proposed rulemaking that,
    if adopted, could provide a framework to partially harmonize
    these funding timing differences. See Overview –
    Industry Factors, Recent Developments in U.S. Cost
    Accounting Standards (CAS) Pension Recovery Rules in
    Part II, Item 7 for further discussion.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to
    additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability
    and cash flow.





 


    We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign
    jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining
    our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course
    of business, there are many transactions and calculations where
    the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, timing
    differences in the recognition of income from contracts for
    financial statement purposes and for income tax regulations can
    cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax
    payments which can have a





    
    -20-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    significant impact on cash flow in a particular period.
    Furthermore, changes in applicable domestic or foreign income
    tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result
    in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the
    taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain
    expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and
    profitability. The final determination of any tax audits or
    related litigation could be materially different from our
    historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally,
    changes in our tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of
    earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates,
    changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax
    legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and
    liabilities, changes in differences between financial reporting
    income and taxable income, the results of audits and the
    examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing
    authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures
    could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax
    expense, profitability and cash flow.



 



    Item 1B