Item 1A.


 



    Organization





    On December 31, 2008, the company was aligned into seven
    reporting segments categorized into four primary businesses. The
    Mission Systems, Information Technology, and Technical Services
    segments are presented as Information & Services. The
    Integrated Systems and Space Technology segments are presented
    as Aerospace. The Electronics and Shipbuilding segments are each
    presented as separate businesses.


 


    The company, from time to time, acquires or disposes of
    businesses, and realigns contracts, programs or business areas
    among and within its operating segments that possess similar
    customers, expertise, and capabilities. Internal realignments
    are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and
    enhance development and delivery of



    
    -1-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    products and services. The operating results for all periods
    presented have been revised to reflect these changes made
    through December 31, 2008.


 


    During the second quarter of 2008, the company transferred
    certain programs and assets from the missiles business in the
    Mission Systems segment to the Space Technology segment. This
    transfer allows Mission Systems to focus on the rapidly growing
    command, control, communications, intelligence, surveillance,
    and reconnaissance (C3ISR) business. The missiles business will
    be an integrated element of the company’s Aerospace
    business growth strategy.


 


    In January 2008, the Newport News and Ship Systems businesses
    were realigned into a single operating segment called Northrop
    Grumman Shipbuilding. Previously, these businesses were separate
    operating segments which were aggregated into a single reporting
    segment for financial reporting purposes. In addition, certain
    Electronics businesses were transferred to Mission Systems
    during the first quarter of 2008.


 


    Subsequent Realignments – In January 2009, the
    company streamlined its organizational structure by reducing the
    number of reporting segments from seven to five. The five
    segments are Aerospace Systems, which combines the former
    Integrated Systems and Space Technology segments; Electronic
    Systems; Information Systems, which combines the former
    Information Technology and Mission Systems segments;
    Shipbuilding and Technical Services. The creation of the
    Aerospace Systems and Information Systems segments strengthens
    alignment with customers, improves the company’s ability to
    execute on programs and win new business, and enhances cost
    competitiveness. This subsequent realignment is not reflected in
    any of the accompanying financial information.


 



    INFORMATION &
    SERVICES


 



    Mission
    Systems





    The Mission Systems segment, headquartered in Reston, Virginia,
    is a leading global systems integrator of complex,
    mission-enabling systems for government, military, and
    commercial customers. Products and services are focused on the
    fields of command, control, communications, computers and
    intelligence (C4I), missile and air defense, airborne
    reconnaissance, intelligence management and processing, and
    decision support systems. The segment consists of two areas of
    business: Command, Control and Communications (C3); and
    Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR).


 


    Command, Control and Communications – C3
    supports the DoD, aerospace prime contractors, and other
    customers. Offerings include operational and tactical command
    and control systems; communications solutions and network
    management; tactical data link communications products and
    integration; network services; software defined radios; decision
    support and management information systems; system engineering
    and integration; land forces and global combat support;
    intelligence support to operations, mission planning and
    management applications; critical infrastructure security and
    force protection; logistics automation; robotic systems;
    homeland security solutions; naval systems engineering support
    and integration; command centers integration; and missile
    defense battle management and fire control systems.


 


    Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance –
    ISR supports the intelligence community, the DoD, and other
    federal agencies. Offerings include large systems integration;
    net-centric signals intelligence; airborne reconnaissance;
    payload control; sensor tasking and data collection; satellite
    ground stations; data collection and storage; information
    analysis and knowledge integration; computer network operations;
    information operations and information assurance; analysis and
    visualization tools; environmental and weather systems; special
    intelligence; and sustainment services.


 



    Information
    Technology





    The Information Technology segment, headquartered in McLean,
    Virginia, is a premier provider of information technology (IT)
    systems engineering and systems integration for the DoD,
    national intelligence, federal, civilian, state and local
    agencies, and commercial customers. The segment consists of four
    areas of business: Intelligence; Civilian Agencies; Commercial,
    State & Local; and Defense.



    
    -2-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    Intelligence – Intelligence provides IT
    systems, services and solutions primarily to the
    U.S. Intelligence Community, which includes customers in
    national agencies, DoD, homeland security, and other agencies at
    the federal, state and local level. This business area also
    collaborates with other Information Technology business areas by
    providing specialized technology solutions in areas such as
    information security, secure wireless communications, secure
    cross agency information-sharing and geospatial information
    systems. Services and solutions span the entire mission life
    cycle from requirements and technology development through
    processing and data analysis to information delivery.


 


    Civilian Agencies – Civilian Agencies provides
    IT systems, services and solutions primarily for federal
    civilian agencies, as well as government and commercial
    healthcare customers. Civilian Agencies customers include the
    departments of Homeland Security, Treasury, Justice,
    Transportation, State, Interior, and the U.S. Postal
    Service. Homeland Security offerings include secure networking,
    criminal justice systems, and identity management. Healthcare
    customers include the Department of Health and Human Services,
    DoD Health Affairs, the Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of
    Veterans Affairs, and a number of pharmaceutical manufacturers.
    Healthcare offerings include enterprise architecture, systems
    integration, infrastructure management, document management,
    human capital management, case management, and specialized
    health IT solutions in electronic medical records pertaining to
    public health, bio-surveillance, benefits, and clinical research.


 


    Commercial, State & Local –
    Commercial, State & Local provides IT systems,
    services and solutions primarily for state and local agencies
    and commercial customers. The commercial business centers on
    managed IT services both as a prime contractor and partner in
    addition to specialized solutions that address specific business
    needs. The state and local focus includes public safety, secure
    wireless solutions, human services, and managed IT services.
    This business area provides IT outsourcing services on a
    “service level agreement” basis, where contractual
    terms are based on infrastructure volume and service levels.
    Services include management of data centers, networks, desktops,
    storage, security, help desk, and applications. Specialized
    state and local offerings include systems for
    police/fire/medical emergency dispatch, public safety command
    centers, biometric identification, and human services.


 


    Defense – Defense provides IT systems, services
    and solutions to all elements of the DoD including the Air
    Force, Navy, Army, Marines, the Office of the Secretary of
    Defense, and the Unified Combatant Commands. Offerings include
    business applications and systems integration related to human
    capital and business management, logistics, transportation,
    supply chain, and combat systems support. Other offerings
    consist of IT and network infrastructures, including
    modernization, architecture, design and capacity modeling.
    Defense also provides solutions and services for defense
    technology laboratories and research and development centers,
    system program offices, operational commands, education and
    training commands, test centers, and other defense agencies.


 



    Technical
    Services





    The Technical Services segment, headquartered in Herndon,
    Virginia, is a leading provider of logistics, infrastructure,
    and sustainment support, while also providing a wide array of
    technical services including training and simulation. The
    segment provides infrastructure management and maintenance,
    training and preparedness, and logistics and life cycle
    management in a wide array of operating environments. Technical
    Services consists of three areas of business: Systems Support;
    Training and Simulation; and Life Cycle Optimization and
    Engineering.


 


    Systems Support – Systems Support provides
    infrastructure and base operations management, including base
    support and civil engineering work, military aerial and ground
    range operations, support functions which include space launch
    services, construction, combat vehicle maintenance, protective
    and emergency services, and range-sensor-instrumentation
    operations. Primary customers include the Department of Energy,
    the DoD, the Department of Homeland Security, and the
    U.S. Intelligence community, in both domestic and
    international locations.


 


    Training and Simulation – Training and
    Simulation provides realistic and comprehensive training to
    senior military leaders and peacekeeping forces, designs and
    develops future conflict training scenarios, and provides



    
    -3-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    U.S. warfighters and international allies with live,
    virtual, and constructive training programs. This business area
    also offers diverse training applications ranging from battle
    command to professional military education. Primary customers
    include the DoD, Department of State and Department of Homeland
    Security.


 


    Life Cycle Optimization and Engineering – Life
    Cycle Optimization and Engineering provides complete life cycle
    product support and weapons system sustainment. This business
    area is focused on providing Performance Based Logistical
    support to the warfighter including supply chain management
    services, warehousing and inventory transportation, field
    services and mobilization, sustaining engineering, maintenance,
    repair and overhaul supplies, and on-going weapon maintenance
    and technical assistance. The group specializes in rebuilding
    essential parts and assemblies. Primary customers include the
    DoD as well as international military and commercial customers.


 



    AEROSPACE


 



    Integrated
    Systems





    The Integrated Systems segment, headquartered in El Segundo,
    California, is a leader in the design, development, and
    production of airborne early warning, electronic warfare and
    surveillance systems, and battlefield management systems, as
    well as manned and unmanned tactical and strike systems. The
    segment designs, develops, produces, and supports fully
    missionized integrated systems and subsystems in the areas of
    battlespace awareness, command and control systems, integrated
    combat systems, and airborne ground surveillance.


 


    Integrated Systems is involved in several manned vehicle
    programs such as subcontractor work on the
    F/A-18 and
    F-35 programs and prime contract work on the B-2 program and the
    Multi-Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP-RTIP). For
    the F/A-18,
    Integrated Systems is responsible for the full integration of
    the center and aft fuselage and vertical tail sections and
    associated subsystems. For the F-35, Integrated Systems is
    responsible for the detailed design and integration and
    production of the center fuselage and weapons bay, systems
    engineering, mission system software, autonomic logistics and
    global sustainment, ground and flight test support,
    signature/low observables development, and support of modeling
    and simulation activities. Integrated Systems is the prime
    systems integration contractor for the MP-RTIP, which will
    provide advanced radar capabilities for the Global Hawk Unmanned
    Aerial Vehicle (UAV). Integrated Systems is working on a radar
    and avionics upgrade program for the B-2 bomber and is a prime
    integrator for all logistics support activities including
    program depot maintenance.


 


    Integrated Systems is also a leader in unmanned vehicle programs
    such as the Global Hawk, the Unmanned Combat Air System Carrier
    Demonstration (UCAS-D), Aerial Targets, and the Fire Scout.
    Integrated Systems is the prime contractor for these product
    lines with the exception of the Army version of Fire Scout for
    Future Combat Systems (FCS). The Global Hawk is a high altitude
    long endurance unmanned aerial reconnaissance system. UCAS-D is
    a development/demonstration program that will design, build and
    test two demonstration vehicles that will conduct a carrier
    demonstration. The technology demonstrations are to show carrier
    control area operations, catapult launch, and an arrested
    landing of a low observable unmanned aerial combat vehicle.
    Aerial Targets has two primary models, the BQM-74 and the BQM-34
    and is the prime contractor on multiple domestic and
    international contracts. Fire Scout is a vertical takeoff and
    landing tactical UAV system in development and consists of two
    versions – the Vertical Takeoff and Landing Unmanned
    Air Vehicle (VTUAV) for the U.S. Navy and the FCS
    Class IV UAV for the U.S. Army.


 


    The E-2
    Hawkeye is the U.S. Navy’s airborne battle management
    command and control mission system platform providing airborne
    early warning detection, identification, tracking, targeting,
    and communication capabilities. The company is currently
    performing on a follow-on multi-year contract for eight
    E-2C
    aircraft to be delivered to the U.S. Navy through 2009 (two
    aircraft were delivered in each of 2006, 2007, and 2008). The
    company is also developing the next generation capability
    including radar, mission computer, vehicle, and other system
    enhancements called the
    E-2D
    Advanced Hawkeye under a System Design and Development (SDD)
    contract with the U.S. Navy. Pilot Production of three
    aircraft was authorized in 2007 and long-lead funding for the
    first lot of Low Rate Initial Production, consisting of two
    aircraft, was received in December 2007.



    
    -4-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    Joint STARS (Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System)
    detects, locates, classifies, tracks, and targets potentially
    hostile ground movement in all weather conditions. It is
    designed to operate around the clock in constant communication
    through secure data links with U.S. Air Force command
    posts, U.S. Army mobile ground stations, or centers for
    military analysis far from the point of conflict. The Joint
    STARS fleet has flown for more than 40,000 hours for
    Operation Iraqi Freedom over the last 6 years. The program
    is currently developing system and airframe performance upgrades
    under an ongoing Systems Improvement Program contract, including
    improvements in surveillance systems and sensor processing,
    battlement management capability, interoperability, and
    communication suite. Fleet sustainment is performed by Northrop
    Grumman through the Total Systems Support Responsibility
    contract, currently in its ninth year of performance, with a
    contract term that extends through 2021. In 2007, an initial
    non-recurring contract was awarded to design and re-engine the
    Joint STARS fleet with more reliable, powerful and fuel
    efficient engines. Follow-on nonrecurring and initial recurring
    shipsets were awarded in May 2008. In December 2008, the
    program’s re-engined test aircraft successfully made its
    maiden flight. Risk reduction contracts for an upcoming Joint
    STARS Radar Modernization program were initiated in 2008.


 


    The BAMS (Broad Area Maritime Surveillance) Unmanned Aircraft
    System SDD contract was awarded in 2008 and leverages the Global
    Hawk platform but integrates maritime requirements including
    sensors, communications, mission control systems and platform
    enhancements to provide a persistent maritime Intelligence,
    Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) data collection and
    dissemination capability to the U.S. Navy. The BAMS
    Unmanned Aircraft System contract includes options for Low Rate
    Initial Production and for furnishing the BAMS Unmanned Aircraft
    System to Australia.


 


    The EA-6B Prowler is currently the armed services’ primary
    offensive tactical radar jamming aircraft. Integrated Systems
    has developed the next generation mission system for this
    aircraft under the Increased Capacity (ICAP) III contract and
    has completed the final test and evaluation phase. The company
    completed the low-rate initial production for ICAP III Kits
    during 2006, and has been awarded follow-on contracts for ICAP
    III Kits & Spares, with deliveries through 2011. In
    addition, the company is performing on a contract to incorporate
    the ICAP III mission system into an
    F/A-18
    platform, designated the EA-18G. Integrated Systems is the
    principal subcontractor to Boeing for this program, which is
    currently in the SDD phase. Northrop Grumman has been awarded
    contracts for Low Rate Initial Production I and II with
    hardware deliveries that commenced in the second quarter of 2008.


 


    Other Integrated Systems programs include the Littoral Combat
    Ship Mission Package Integration contract and Mine Counter
    Measures contracts with multiple customers that focus on
    detecting and neutralizing
    in-land,
    coastal and water surface/subsurface mines.


 



    Space
    Technology





    The Space Technology segment, headquartered in Redondo Beach,
    California, develops and integrates a broad range of systems at
    the leading edge of space, defense, and electronics technology.
    The segment supplies products primarily to the
    U.S. Government that are critical to maintaining the
    nation’s security and leadership in science and technology.
    Space Technology’s business areas focus on the design,
    development, manufacture, and integration of spacecraft systems
    and subsystems, electronic and communications payloads,
    intercontinental ballistic missile systems, and high energy
    laser systems and subsystems. Products and services are grouped
    into the following areas of business: Civil Systems; Military
    Systems; Missile Systems; National Systems; and
    Technology & Emerging Systems (Technology).


 


    Civil Systems  – The Civil Systems business
    area produces and integrates space-based systems, instruments,
    and services primarily for the National Aeronautics and Space
    Administration (NASA), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
    Administration, and other governmental agencies. These systems
    are primarily used for space science, earth observation and
    environmental monitoring, and exploration missions. A variety of
    systems and services are provided, including mission and system
    engineering services, satellite and instrument systems, mission
    operations, and propulsion systems. Major programs include
    National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental



    
    -5-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    Satellite System (NPOESS), the James Webb Space Telescope
    (JWST), and the legacy Chandra space telescope and Earth
    Observing System programs.


 


    Military Systems – Military Systems produces
    and integrates spiral development programs and operational
    programs associated with the U.S. Air Force, Missile
    Defense Agency (MDA), and other military customers.
    Responsibilities include study design, build integration,
    launch, and operations of major U.S. military space
    systems. Programs include the Advanced Extremely High Frequency
    (AEHF) payload, Space Tracking and Surveillance System (STSS),
    and the communication payload for the legacy Milstar program,
    currently in operation. The Defense Support Program is a
    contract for monitoring ballistic missile launches for the
    U.S. Air Force.


 


    Missile Systems – Missile Systems supports the
    U.S. Air Force Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM)
    program, the MDA Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI) program and
    other large missile customers. Offerings include air and missile
    system engineering and integration; modeling and simulation;
    program management; system test and integration; development and
    deployment; missile system sustainment and modernization
    services; and development and test activities for complex
    missile systems.


 


    National Systems  – The National Systems
    business area gives the nation’s monitoring systems a
    global reach and enhanced national security. Addressing
    requirements in space-based intelligence, surveillance, and
    reconnaissance systems, National Systems provides mission and
    system engineering, satellite systems, and mission operations.
    Customers are predominantly restricted, as are the major
    programs.


 


    Technology & Emerging Systems –
    Technology performs government funded research and development
    in support of the four business areas above. Programs include
    the Airborne Laser (ABL), other directed energy programs and
    advanced concepts programs.


 



    ELECTRONICS


 


    The Electronics segment, headquartered in Linthicum, Maryland,
    designs, develops, produces, integrates, and supports high
    performance sensors, intelligence processing, navigation
    systems, test and simulation systems, and weapons operating in
    all environments from undersea to outer space and cyberspace. It
    also develops, produces, integrates, and supports power, power
    control, and ship control systems for commercial and naval ships
    in domestic and international markets. In select markets it
    performs as a prime contractor, integrating multiple subsystems
    to provide complete systems to meet customers’ solution
    requirements. The segment is composed of seven areas of
    business: Aerospace Systems; Defensive Systems; Government
    Systems; Land Forces; Naval & Marine Systems;
    Navigation Systems; and Space & Intelligence,
    Surveillance, & Reconnaissance (ISR) Systems.


 


    Aerospace Systems – Aerospace Systems provides
    sensors, sensor processing, integrated sensor suites, and radar
    countermeasure systems for military surveillance and
    precision-strike; missile tracking and warning; and radio
    frequency electronic warfare. Fire control radars include
    systems for the F-16, F-22A, F-35, and B-1B. Navigation radars
    include commercial and military systems for transport and cargo
    aircraft. Surveillance products include the Airborne Warning and
    Control System radar, the Multi-role Electronically Scanned
    Array (MESA) radar, the MP-RTIP, the ship-board Cobra Judy
    Replacement radar, and multiple payloads on the
    P-8A. Radio
    frequency electronic warfare products include radar warning
    receivers, self-protection jammers, and integrated electronic
    warfare systems for aircraft such as the EA-6B, EA-18, F-16, and
    F-15.


 


    Defensive Systems – Defensive Systems provides
    systems that support combat aviation by protecting aircraft and
    helicopters from attack, by providing capabilities for precise
    targeting and tactical surveillance, by improving mission
    availability through automated test systems, and by improving
    mission skills through advanced simulation systems. A wide
    variety of fixed wing and helicopter protection systems include
    threat detection and laser-based countermeasures systems to
    defeat ground-launched infrared-guided missiles. Defensive
    Systems’ countermeasures systems are currently installed on
    over 40 types of aircraft, many of which are conducting combat
    operations in the Global War on Terror. Targeting systems
    utilize lasers for target designation and precision weapon
    delivery, image processing, and target acquisition,
    identification, and tracking. The LITENING targeting pod system
    is



    
    -6-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    combat-proven on the AV-8B,
    A-10A/C,
    B-52H, F-15E, F-16, and
    F/A-18A/C/D.
    Test systems include systems to test electronic components of
    combat aircraft on the flight line and in repair facilities.
    Defensive Systems also provides advanced simulators for use on
    test ranges and training facilities to emulate threats of
    potential adversaries. Customers include the
    U.S. government and a wide variety of international allies.


 


    Government Systems – Government Systems
    provides products and services to meet the needs of governments
    for improvements in the effectiveness of their civil and
    military infrastructure and of their combat and
    counter-terrorism operations. This includes systems and system
    integration of products and services for postal automation, for
    the detection and alert of Chemical, Biological, Radiological,
    Nuclear, and Explosive material, and for homeland defense,
    communications, and enterprise management. Key programs include:
    Flats Sequencing System; International Sorting Centers;
    U.S. Postal Service bio-detection systems; and national
    level command and control, integrated air and missile defense
    and homeland defense systems for international customers.


 


    Land Forces – Land Forces provides a full range
    of warfighting system solutions for the “digital
    battlefield,” including fire control systems for airborne
    and tracked vehicles, air and ground sensors to detect enemy
    movement, tactical range finding and precise laser designation,
    and systems that detect and defend against enemy fire. These
    solutions include precision guided munitions for manned and
    unmanned air vehicle delivery, laser designators and
    rangefinders, ground-based tactical radars for warning of
    missile and artillery attack, situational awareness sensors,
    unattended sensor systems, ground vehicle communication
    networks, and compact, lightweight Synthetic Aperture
    Radar / Ground Moving Target Indicator (SAR/GMTI)
    radars for unmanned/rotary wing aircraft. Sensor technologies
    provided include radio frequency, infrared, and electro-optical.
    Principal programs include the Longbow Weapons System for the
    Apache attack helicopter, the Lightweight Laser Designator
    Rangefinder, the Viper Strike precision guided munitions, the
    Vehicular Intercommunication System (VIS), the Firefinder
    counter-battery integrated radar system, the Ground/Air Task
    Oriented Radar System (G/ATOR), and the lightweight STARLite
    SAR/GMTI for unmanned air vehicles.


 


    Naval & Marine Systems – Naval and
    Marine Systems provides major subsystems and subsystem
    integration for sensors, sensor processing, missile launching,
    ship controls and power generation. It provides systems to
    military surface and subsurface platforms, and bridge and
    machinery control systems for commercial maritime applications.
    Principal programs include: radars for navigation; radars for
    gun fire control and cruise missile defense; bridge management
    and control systems; power generation systems for aircraft
    carriers; power and propulsion systems for the
    Virginia-class submarine; launch systems for Trident
    submarines and the KEI program; the Advanced SEAL Delivery
    System mini-submarine; and unmanned semi-autonomous naval
    systems.


 


    Navigation Systems – Navigation Systems
    provides advanced navigation, avionics systems, and command and
    control centers for military and commercial applications. Its
    products are used in military air, land, sea, and space systems
    as well as commercial space and aircraft in both U.S. and
    international markets. Its subsidiaries, Northrop Grumman LITEF
    (Freiburg, Germany) and Northrop Grumman Italia (Pomezia,
    Italy), are leading European inertial sensors and systems
    suppliers. Key programs and applications include: integrated
    avionics for the U.S. Marine Corps attack and utility
    helicopters and U.S. Navy
    E-2
    aircraft; military navigation and positioning systems for the
    F-16 fighter, F-22A fighter/attack aircraft, Eurofighter, and
    U.S. Navy MH-60 helicopter; navigation systems for
    commercial aircraft; navigation systems for military and civil
    space satellites and deep space exploration. Navigation Systems
    also develops and produces fiber-optic acoustic systems for
    underwater surveillance for Virginia-class submarines and
    the AN/TYQ-23 multi-service mobile tactical command centers for
    the U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Air Force.


 


    Space & ISR Systems –
    Space & ISR Systems provides space-based sensor and
    exploitation systems for civil, military, and intelligence
    community customers, as well as ground/surface based command,
    control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance,
    and reconnaissance (C4ISR) solutions to process, exploit, and
    disseminate multi-sensor data. Capabilities include space-based
    payloads, radar, Overhead Non-Imaging Infrared sensors,
    electro-optic & multi/hyper-spectral sensors, passive
    microwave sounders, mission processing solutions, and
    Service-Oriented open architecture C4ISR systems. The current
    portfolio of programs includes



    
    -7-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    Spaced-Based Infrared System as the lead for the payload and
    mission processing systems, the Distributed Common Ground System
    Army as the system integrator, as well as a variety of civil
    space and restricted programs.


 



    SHIPBUILDING


 


    The Shipbuilding segment, headquartered in Newport News,
    Virginia, is the nation’s sole industrial designer,
    builder, and refueler of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and
    one of only two companies capable of designing and building
    nuclear-powered submarines for the U.S. Navy. Shipbuilding
    is also one of the nation’s leading full service providers
    for the design, engineering, construction, and life cycle
    support of major programs for the U.S. Navy,
    U.S. Coast Guard, international navies, and for commercial
    vessels. The segment includes the following areas of business:
    Aircraft Carriers; Expeditionary Warfare; Surface Combatants;
    Submarines; Coast Guard & Coastal Defense; Fleet
    Support; Commercial; and Services & Other.


 


    Aircraft Carriers – The U.S. Navy’s
    newest carrier and the last of the Nimitz class, the USS
    George H. W. Bush, was commissioned in January 2009.
    Advanced design and preparation efforts have been ongoing for
    the new generation carrier, the Ford class, which will
    incorporate transformational technologies that will result in
    manning reductions, improved war fighting capability, and a new
    nuclear propulsion plant design. In September 2008, Shipbuilding
    received a $5.1 billion contract award for construction of
    the first ship of the class, the Gerald R. Ford, which is
    scheduled for delivery in 2015. The company also provides
    ongoing maintenance for the U.S. Navy aircraft carrier
    fleet through overhaul, refueling, and repair work. Shipbuilding
    is currently performing the refueling and complex overhaul of
    the USS Carl Vinson with redelivery to the U.S. Navy
    anticipated in early 2009. Planning for the USS Theodore
    Roosevelt refueling and complex overhaul began in the fall
    of 2006 and the ship is expected to arrive at Newport News,
    Virginia in the summer of 2009.


 


    Expeditionary Warfare – Expeditionary Warfare
    programs include the design and construction of amphibious
    assault ships for the U.S. Navy, including the LHD 1 WASP
    class and the San Antonio LPD 17 class. Shipbuilding is the
    sole provider for the LHD class of large-deck, 40,500-ton
    multipurpose amphibious assault ships, which serve as the
    centerpiece of an Amphibious Ready Group. Currently, the LHD-8
    is under construction and is a significant upgrade from the
    preceding seven ships of its class. The LHD-8 is scheduled for
    delivery in mid-2009. In 2007, the construction contract for LHA
    6, the first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault
    ships, was awarded. The ship is scheduled for delivery in 2013.
    Shipbuilding is also the sole provider of the LPD 17 class of
    ships, which function as amphibious transports. The initial four
    ships were delivered in 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008, and five LPD
    17 ships are currently under construction.


 


    Surface Combatants – Surface Combatants
    includes the design and construction of the Arleigh Burke DDG 51
    class Aegis guided missile destroyers, and the design and
    construction of DDG 1000 (previously DD(X)), the Navy’s
    future transformational surface combatant class. Shipbuilding is
    one of two prime contractors designing and building DDG 51 class
    destroyers, which provide primary anti-aircraft and anti-missile
    ship protection for the U.S. Navy fleet. Three Arleigh
    Burke class destroyers are currently under construction. In
    2006, Shipbuilding was awarded Phase IV detailed design and
    long lead construction funding for the initial DDG 1000. The
    construction award for the second ship in the class, DDG 1001,
    was received in 2008. The contract establishes a joint work
    share between Shipbuilding and General Dynamics’ Bath Iron
    Works (which will produce the first ship in the class) for
    detailed design and construction of the DDG 1000 class of ships.
    The advanced technologies developed for the DDG 1000 are
    anticipated to be incorporated into the next generation guided
    missile cruiser CG(X).


 


    Submarines – Northrop Grumman is one of only
    two U.S. companies capable of designing and building
    nuclear-powered submarines. In February 1997, the company and
    Electric Boat, a wholly owned subsidiary of General Dynamics
    Corporation, reached an agreement to cooperatively build
    Virginia class nuclear attack submarines. The initial
    four submarines in the class were delivered in 2004, 2006, and
    2008. Electric Boat and Shipbuilding were awarded a construction
    contract in August 2003 for the second block of six Virginia
    class submarines, the first of which was delivered by
    Electric Boat in August 2008. Construction on the remaining five
    submarines is



    
    -8-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    underway, with the last scheduled to be delivered in 2014. In
    December 2008, Shipbuilding and Electric Boat were awarded a
    construction contract for the third block of eight Virginia
    class submarines. The multi-year contract allows
    Shipbuilding and its teammate to proceed with the construction
    of one submarine per year in 2009 and 2010, and two submarines
    per year from 2011 to 2013. The eighth submarine to be procured
    under this contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019.


 


    Coast Guard & Coastal Defense –
    Shipbuilding is a joint venture partner along with Lockheed
    Martin for the Coast Guard’s Deepwater Modernization
    Program. Shipbuilding has design and production responsibility
    for surface ships. In 2006, the Shipbuilding/Lockheed Martin
    joint venture was awarded a
    43-month
    contract extension for the Deepwater program. The first National
    Security Cutter (NSC), USCGC Berthoff, was delivered to
    the Coast Guard in 2008. Currently the Waesche (NSC2) and
    Stratton (NSC3) are in construction, and long lead
    procurement is underway for NSC4.


 


    Fleet Support – Shipbuilding provides
    after-market services, including on-going maintenance and repair
    work, for a wide array of naval and commercial vessels. The
    company has ship repair facilities in the U.S. Navy’s
    largest homeports of Norfolk, Virginia, and San Diego,
    California.


 


    Commercial – Under the Polar Tanker program,
    Shipbuilding was under contract to produce five double-hulled
    tankers. These tankers each transport one million barrels of
    crude oil from Alaska to west coast refineries and are fully
    compliant with the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. The last ship
    under this program was delivered in mid-2006.


 


    Services & Other – Shipbuilding
    provides various services to commercial nuclear and non-nuclear
    industrial customers. In January 2008, Savannah River Nuclear
    Solutions, a joint venture among Shipbuilding, Fluor
    Corporation, and Honeywell, was awarded a contract for site
    management and operations of the U.S. Department of
    Energy’s Savannah River Site in Aiken, South Carolina. In
    October 2008, Shipbuilding announced the formation of a joint
    venture with AREVA NP to build a new manufacturing and
    engineering facility in Newport News, Virginia, to help supply
    the growing American nuclear energy sector.


 



    Corporate





    The company’s principal executive offices are located at
    1840 Century Park East, Los Angeles, California 90067. The
    company’s telephone number is
    (310) 553-6262.
    The company’s home page on the Internet is
    www.northropgrumman.com. References to the company’s
    website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not
    constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by
    reference of the information contained on, or available through,
    the website. Therefore, such information should not be
    considered part of this report.


 



    SUMMARY
    SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA


 


    For a more complete understanding of the company’s segment
    financial information, see Segment Operating Results in
    Part II, Item 7, and Note 7 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8.


 



    CUSTOMERS
    AND REVENUE CONCENTRATION


 


    The company’s primary customer is the U.S. Government.
    Revenue from the U.S. Government accounted for
    approximately 90 percent of total revenues in 2008, 2007,
    and 2006. No other customer accounted for more than
    10 percent of total revenue during any period presented. No
    single product or service accounted for more than
    10 percent of total revenue during any period presented.
    See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.



    
    -9-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    PATENTS


 


    The following table summarizes the number of patents the company
    owns or has pending as of December 31, 2008:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Owned
    


 


    Pending
    


 


    Total





    U.S. patents



 


 


    3,210


 


 


 


    447


 


 


 


    3,657


 





    Foreign patents



 


 


    2,091


 


 


 


    470


 


 


 


    2,561


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    5,301


 


 


 


    917


 


 


 


    6,218


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Patents developed while under contract with the
    U.S. Government may be subject to use by the
    U.S. Government. In addition the company licenses
    intellectual property to, and from, third parties. Management
    believes the company’s ability to conduct its operations
    would not be materially affected by the loss of any particular
    intellectual property right.


 



    SEASONALITY


 


    No material portion of the company’s business is considered
    to be seasonal. The timing of revenue recognition is based on
    several factors including the timing of contract awards, the
    incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit
    deliveries. See Revenue Recognition in Part II, Item 7.


 



    BACKLOG


 


    At December 31, 2008, total backlog was $78.1 billion
    compared with $63.7 billion at the end of 2007.
    Approximately 65 percent of the $37.4 billion funded
    backlog at December 31, 2008, is expected to be converted
    into sales in 2009.


 


    Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for
    which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and
    unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently
    contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog
    excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded indefinite
    delivery indefinite quantity (IDIQ) orders. For multi-year
    services contracts with non-federal government customers having
    no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts
    committed by the customer. For backlog by segment see Backlog in
    Part II, Item 7.


 



    RAW
    MATERIALS


 


    The most significant raw material required by the company is
    steel, used primarily for shipbuilding. The company has
    mitigated supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with a
    number of steel suppliers. In addition, the company has
    mitigated price risk related to its steel purchases through
    certain contractual arrangements with the U.S. Government.
    While the company has generally been able to obtain key raw
    materials required in its production processes in a timely
    manner, a significant delay in receipt of these supplies by the
    company could have a material adverse effect on the
    company’s consolidated financial position, results of
    operations, or cash flows. See Risk Factors in Part I,
    Item 1A.


 



    GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION


 


    The company’s business is affected by numerous laws and
    regulations relating to the award, administration and
    performance of U.S. Government contracts. See Risk Factors
    in Part I, Item 1A.


 


    Certain programs with the U.S. Government that are
    prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in
    detail are referred to as “restricted” in this
    Form 10-K.
    The consolidated financial statements and financial information
    contained within this
    Form 10-K
    reflect the operating results of restricted programs under
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America (U.S. GAAP). See Risk Factors in Part I,
    Item 1A.



    
    -10-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    RESEARCH
    AND DEVELOPMENT


 


    Company-sponsored research and development activities primarily
    include independent research and development (IR&D) efforts
    related to government programs. IR&D expenses are included
    in general and administrative expenses and are generally
    allocated to U.S. Government contracts. Company-sponsored
    research and development expenses totaled $576 million,
    $534 million, and $569 million in 2008, 2007, and
    2006, respectively. Expenses for research and development
    sponsored by the customer are charged directly to the related
    contracts.


 



    EMPLOYEE
    RELATIONS


 


    The company believes that it maintains good relations with its
    123,600 employees, of which approximately 18 percent
    are covered by 36 collective bargaining agreements. The company
    expects to re-negotiate seven of its collective bargaining
    agreements in 2009. It is not expected that the results of these
    negotiations will, either individually or in the aggregate, have
    a material adverse effect on the company’s results of
    operations. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.


 



    ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS


 


    Federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the
    environment affect the company’s manufacturing operations.
    The company has provided for the estimated cost to complete
    environmental remediation where the company has determined it is
    probable that the company will incur such costs in the future to
    address environmental impacts at currently or formerly owned or
    leased operating facilities, or at sites where it has been named
    a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the Environmental
    Protection Agency or similarly designated by other environmental
    agencies. These estimates may change given the inherent
    difficulty in estimating environmental cleanup costs to be
    incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the
    extent of the required cleanup, determination of legally
    responsible parties, and the status of laws, regulations, and
    their interpretations.


 


    In order to assess the potential impact on the company’s
    financial statements, management estimates the possible
    remediation costs that reasonably could be incurred by the
    company on a
    site-by-site
    basis. Such estimates take into consideration the professional
    judgment of the company’s environmental engineers and, when
    necessary, consultation with outside environmental specialists.
    In most instances, only a range of reasonably possible costs can
    be estimated. However, in the determination of accruals, the
    most probable amount is used when determinable, and the minimum
    is used when no single amount is more probable. The company
    records accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the
    accounting period in which the company’s responsibility is
    established and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The
    company does not anticipate and record insurance recoveries
    before it has determined that collection is probable.


 


    Management estimates that at December 31, 2008, the range
    of reasonably possible future costs for environmental
    remediation sites is $186 million to $279 million, of
    which $231 million is accrued in other current liabilities
    in the consolidated statements of financial position.
    Environmental accruals are recorded on an undiscounted basis. At
    sites involving multiple parties, the company provides
    environmental accruals based upon its expected share of
    liability, taking into account the financial viability of other
    jointly liable parties. Environmental expenditures are expensed
    or capitalized as appropriate. Capitalized expenditures relate
    to long-lived improvements in currently operating facilities. In
    addition, should other PRPs not pay their allocable share of
    remediation costs, the company may have to incur costs in
    addition to those already estimated and accrued, which could
    have a material effect on the company’s consolidated
    financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The
    company has made the investments it believes necessary in order
    to comply with environmental laws. Although management cannot
    predict whether new information gained as projects progress will
    materially affect the estimated liability accrued, management
    does not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will
    have a material adverse effect on the company’s
    consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash
    flows.



    
    -11-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    COMPETITIVE
    CONDITIONS


 


    Northrop Grumman, along with Lockheed Martin Corporation, The
    Boeing Company, Raytheon Company, and General Dynamics
    Corporation are among the largest companies in the
    U.S. defense industry at this time. Northrop Grumman
    competes against these and other companies for a number of
    programs, both large and small. Intense competition and long
    operating cycles are both key characteristics of Northrop
    Grumman’s business and the defense industry. It is common
    in this industry for work on major programs to be shared among a
    number of companies. A company competing to be a prime
    contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another
    party, turn out to be a subcontractor for the ultimate prime
    contracting party. It is not uncommon to compete for a contract
    award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a
    supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts.
    The nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding
    contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a
    level of program continuity not common in many industries.


 


    The company’s success in the competitive defense industry
    depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and
    services, as well as its ability to provide the people,
    technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity
    needed to deliver those products and services with maximum
    efficiency. It is necessary to maintain, as the company has,
    sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic
    components, and major subassemblies. In this manufacturing and
    systems integration environment, effective oversight of
    subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success as managing
    internal operations.


 


    Similarly, there is intense competition among many companies in
    the information and services markets, which are generally more
    labor intensive with competitive margin rates over contract
    periods of shorter duration. Competitors in the information and
    services markets include the defense industry participants
    mentioned above as well as many other large and small entities
    with expertise in various specialized areas. The company’s
    ability to successfully compete in the information and services
    markets depends on a number of factors; most important is the
    capability to deploy skilled professionals, many requiring
    security clearances, at competitive prices across the diverse
    spectrum of these markets. Accordingly, various workforce
    initiatives are in place to ensure the company is successful in
    attracting, developing and retaining sufficient resources to
    maintain or improve its competitive position within these
    markets. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.


 



    EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS


 


    See Part III, Item 10, for information about executive
    officers of the company.


 



    AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION


 


    Throughout this
    Form 10-K,
    the company incorporates by reference information from parts of
    other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC). The SEC allows the company to disclose
    important information by referring to it in this manner, and you
    should review this information in addition to the information
    contained herein.


 


    The company’s annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and proxy statement for the annual shareholders’ meeting,
    as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free
    of charge through the company’s web site as soon as
    reasonably practicable after electronic filing of such material
    with the SEC. You can learn more about the company by reviewing
    the company’s SEC filings on the company’s web site.
    The company’s SEC reports can be accessed through the
    investor relations page of the company’s web site at
    www.northropgrumman.com.


 


    The SEC also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy statements and other information
    regarding SEC registrants, including Northrop Grumman. The
    public may read and copy any materials filed by the company with
    the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The
    public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
    Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.



    
    -12-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 

 



    Item 1A.
    Risk Factors


 


    The company’s consolidated financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of
    which are not exclusively within the company’s control,
    that may cause actual performance to differ materially from
    historical or projected future performance. The company urges
    investors to carefully consider the risk factors described below
    in evaluating the information contained in this report.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company Depends Heavily on a Single Customer, the
    U.S. Government, for a Substantial Portion of the
    Company’s Business, Including Programs Subject to Security
    Classification Restrictions on Information. Changes Affecting
    this Customer’s Capacity to Do Business with the Company or
    the Effects of Competition in the Defense Industry Could Have a
    Material Adverse Effect On the Company or Its Prospects.





 


    Approximately 91 percent of the company’s revenues
    during 2008 were derived from products and services ultimately
    sold to the U.S. Government and are therefore affected by,
    among other things, the federal budget process. The company is a
    supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member,
    to the U.S. Government and its agencies as well as foreign
    governments and agencies. These contracts are subject to the
    respective customers’ political and budgetary constraints
    and processes, changes in customers’ short-range and
    long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, and
    in the case of contracts with the U.S. Government, the
    congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes,
    the U.S. Government’s ability to terminate contracts
    for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as
    contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain
    violations of legal and regulatory requirements. The termination
    or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the
    U.S. Government could have a material adverse effect on the
    company’s results of operations or prospects. Current or
    future economic conditions could result in the reprioritization
    of or reduction in future U.S. Government defense spending
    levels.


 


    In the event of termination for the government’s
    convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions
    covering reimbursement for costs incurred. The company is
    involved as a plaintiff in a lawsuit concerning a contract
    terminated for convenience. See Other Matters in Part I,
    Item 3. Termination resulting from the company’s
    default could expose the company to liability and have a
    material adverse effect on its ability to compete for contracts.


 


    In addition, a material amount of the company’s revenues
    and profits is derived from programs that are subject to
    security classification restrictions (restricted business),
    which could limit the company’s ability to discuss details
    about these programs, their risks or any disputes or claims
    relating to such programs. As a result, investors might have
    less insight into the company’s restricted business than
    other businesses of the company or could experience less ability
    to evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with
    restricted business.


 


    The company’s success in the competitive defense industry
    depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and
    services, as well as its ability to provide the people,
    technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity
    needed to deliver those products and services with maximum
    efficiency. A loss of business to the company’s competitors
    could have a material adverse affect on the company’s
    ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain
    market share.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Many of the Company’s Contracts Contain Performance
    Obligations That Require Innovative Design Capabilities, Are
    Technologically Complex, Require
    State-Of-The-Art
    Manufacturing Expertise or Are Dependent Upon Factors Not Wholly
    Within the Company’s Control. Failure to Meet These
    Obligations Could Adversely Affect the Company’s
    Profitability and Future Prospects.





 


    The company designs, develops and manufactures technologically
    advanced and innovative products and services applied by its
    customers in a variety of environments. Problems and delays in
    development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to
    design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning
    curve assumptions, or materials and components could prevent the
    company from achieving contractual requirements.



    
    -13-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    In addition, the company’s products cannot be tested and
    proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen
    problems. Examples of unforeseen problems which could negatively
    affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of
    spacecraft, premature failure, problems with quality, country of
    origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services, and
    unplanned degradation of product performance. These failures
    could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or
    property. Among the factors that may affect revenue and profits
    could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance
    or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management
    focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on
    work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the
    government customer of contract cost and fee payments previously
    received by the company.


 


    Certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems,
    contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in
    the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon
    launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period
    of time. Under such terms, the company could be required to
    forfeit fees previously recognized
    and/or
    collected. The company has not experienced any material losses
    in the last decade in connection with such contract performance
    incentive provisions. However, if the company were to experience
    launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the
    future, such events could have a material adverse impact on the
    company’s consolidated financial position or results of
    operations.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Contract Cost Growth on Fixed-Price and Other Contracts
    That Cannot Be Justified as an Increase In Contract Value Due
    From Customers Exposes The Company to Reduced Profitability and
    the Potential Loss of Future Business.





 


    Operating income is adversely affected when contract costs that
    cannot be billed to customers are incurred. This cost growth can
    occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical
    challenges or if initial estimates used for calculating the
    contract cost were incorrect. The cost estimation process
    requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost
    growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the
    nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of
    change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any
    delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from
    the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover
    any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant
    change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a
    material effect on the company’s consolidated financial
    position or results of operations.


 


    Due to their nature, fixed-price contracts inherently have more
    risk than flexibly priced contracts and therefore generally
    carry higher profit margins. Approximately 30 percent of
    the company’s annual revenues are derived from fixed-price
    contracts – see Contracts in Part II,
    Item 7. Flexibly priced contracts may carry risk to the
    extent of their specific contract terms and conditions relating
    to performance award fees, including cost sharing agreements,
    and negative performance incentives. The company typically
    enters into fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably
    estimated based on experience. In addition, certain contracts
    other than fixed-price contracts have provisions relating to
    cost controls and audit rights. Should the terms specified in
    those contracts not be met, then profitability may be reduced.
    Fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of the
    company’s fixed-price contracts and inherently has more
    uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and
    therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete
    the development stage. As work progresses through the
    development stage into production, the risks associated with
    estimating the total costs of the contract are generally
    reduced. In addition, successful performance of fixed-price
    development contracts which include production units is subject
    to the company’s ability to control cost growth in meeting
    production specifications and delivery rates. While management
    uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with
    fixed-price development contracts, future events could result in
    either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates.
    Examples of the company’s significant fixed-price
    development contracts include the F-16 Block 60 combat
    avionics program and the MESA radar system program for the
    Wedgetail and Peace Eagle contracts, both of which are performed
    by the Electronics segment. It is also not unprecedented in the
    shipbuilding business for the company to



    
    -14-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    negotiate fixed-price production follow-on contracts before the
    development effort has been completed and learning curves fully
    realized on existing flexibly priced development contracts.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company Uses Estimates When Accounting for Contracts.
    Changes In Estimates Could Affect The Company’s
    Profitability and Its Overall Financial Position.





 


    Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing
    risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making
    assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size
    and nature of many of the company’s contracts, the
    estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is
    complicated and subject to many variables. For example,
    assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to
    complete the contract because costs also include expected
    increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly,
    assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of
    company initiated efficiency initiatives and cost reduction
    efforts. Incentives, awards, or penalties related to performance
    on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit
    rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to
    assess anticipated performance.


 


    Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation
    processes described above, it is possible that materially
    different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions
    were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change.
    Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates
    may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial
    reporting and performance. See Critical Accounting Policies,
    Estimates, and Judgments in Part II, Item 7.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company’s Operations Are Subject to Numerous
    Domestic and International Laws, Regulations and Restrictions,
    and Noncompliance With These Laws, Regulations and Restrictions
    Could Expose the Company to Fines, Penalties, Suspension or
    Debarment, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the
    Company’s Profitability and Its Overall Financial
    Position.





 


    The company has thousands of contracts and operations in many
    parts of the world subject to U.S. and foreign laws and
    regulations. Prime contracts with various agencies of the
    U.S. Government and subcontracts with other prime
    contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations,
    including the False Claims Act and the International Traffic in
    Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act,
    with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in
    fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving
    additional contracts with all U.S. Government agencies.
    Given the company’s dependence on U.S. Government
    business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse
    effect on the company.


 


    In addition, international business subjects the company to
    numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including,
    without limitation, regulations relating to import-export
    control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of
    earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
    and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export
    Administration Act. Failure by the company or its sales
    representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and
    regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal
    liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension
    or debarment from government contracts or suspension of the
    company’s export privileges, which could have a material
    adverse effect on the company. Changes in regulation or
    political environment may affect the company’s ability to
    conduct business in foreign markets including investment,
    procurement, and repatriation of earnings.


 


    The company operates in a highly regulated environment and is
    routinely audited by the U.S. Government and others. On a
    regular basis, the company monitors its policies and procedures
    with respect to its contracts to ensure consistent application
    under similar terms and conditions and to assess compliance with
    all applicable government regulations. Negative audit findings
    could result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of
    profits, or suspension of payments. From time to time the
    company is subject to U.S. Government investigations
    relating to its operations. Government contractors that are
    found to have violated the law such as the False Claims Act or
    the Arms Export Control Act, or are indicted or convicted for
    violations of other federal laws, or are found not to have acted
    responsibly as defined by the law, may be subject to significant
    fines. Such convictions could also result in suspension or
    debarment from government



    
    -15-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    contracting for some period of time. Given the company’s
    dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment
    could have a material adverse effect on the company.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company’s Business Is Subject to Disruption
    Caused By Issues With Its Suppliers, Subcontractors, Workforce,
    Natural Disasters and Other Factors That Could Adversely Affect
    the Company’s Profitability and Its Overall Financial
    Position.





 


    The company may be affected by delivery or performance issues
    with key suppliers and subcontractors, as well as other factors
    that may cause operating results to be adversely affected.
    Changes in inventory requirements or other production cost
    increases may also have a negative effect on the company’s
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.


 


    Performance failures by a subcontractor of the company or
    difficulty in maintaining complete alignment of the
    subcontractor’s obligations with the company’s prime
    contract obligations may adversely affect the company’s
    ability to perform its obligations on the prime contract, which
    could reduce the company’s profitability due to damages or
    other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the
    subcontractor or from the customer and could result in a
    termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on
    the company’s ability to compete for future contracts. If
    the recent period of adverse economic conditions and credit
    market volatility continues, the company’s profitability
    may be negatively impacted by the inability of certain of the
    company’s subcontractors and key suppliers to continue
    providing their products
    and/or
    services.


 


    Operating results are heavily dependent upon the company’s
    ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with
    requisite skill sets
    and/or
    security clearances. The successful negotiation of collective
    bargaining agreements and avoidance of organized work stoppages
    are also critical to the ongoing operations of the company.


 


    The company has significant operations located in regions of the
    U.S. that may be exposed to damaging storms and other
    natural disasters. While preventative measures typically help to
    minimize harm to the company, the damage and disruption
    resulting from certain storms or other natural disasters may be
    significant. Although no assurances can be made, the company
    believes it can recover costs associated with natural disasters
    through insurance or its contracts.


 


    Natural disasters such as storms and earthquakes can disrupt
    electrical and other power distribution networks and cause
    adverse effects on profitability and performance, including
    computer and internet operation and accessibility. Computer
    viruses and similar harmful software programs, as well as
    network outages, disruptions and attacks also may have a
    material adverse effect on the company’s profitability and
    performance unless quarantined or otherwise prevented.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Changes In Future Business Conditions Could Cause Business
    Investments
    and/or
    Recorded Goodwill to Become Impaired, Resulting In Substantial
    Losses and Write-Downs That Would Reduce the Company’s
    Operating Income.





 


    As part of its overall strategy, the company will, from time to
    time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business.
    These investments are made upon careful target analysis and due
    diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or
    strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain
    assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. After
    acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely
    affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not
    recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after
    careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary
    significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounts for
    approximately half of the company’s recorded total assets.
    The company evaluates goodwill amounts for impairment annually,
    or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual
    impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment.
    Principally, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or
    changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment
    of recorded goodwill. Adverse equity market conditions and the
    resulting decline in market multiples and the company’s
    stock price led to a



    
    -16-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    non-cash, after-tax charge of $3.1 billion for impairment
    of goodwill at Shipbuilding and Space Technology. If the current
    economic conditions continue to deteriorate causing further
    decline in the company’s stock price, additional
    impairments to one or more businesses could occur in future
    periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment
    analysis. The company will continue to monitor the
    recoverability of the carrying value of its goodwill and other
    long-lived assets. See Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates,
    and Judgments in Part II, Item 7.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company Is Subject to Various Claims and Litigation
    That Could Ultimately Be Resolved Against The Company Requiring
    Material Future Cash Payments
    and/or
    Future Material Charges Against the Company’s Operating
    Income and Materially Impairing the Company’s Financial
    Position.





 


    The size and complexity of the company’s business make it
    highly susceptible to claims and litigation. The company is
    subject to environmental claims, income tax matters and other
    litigation, which, if not resolved within established accruals,
    could have a material adverse effect on the company’s
    consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash
    flows. See Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3, and
    Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments in
    Part II, Item 7.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Pension and Medical Expense Associated with the
    Company’s Retirement Benefit Plans May Fluctuate
    Significantly Depending Upon Changes in Actuarial Assumptions
    and Future Market Performance of Plan Assets.





 


    A substantial portion of the company’s current and retired
    employee population is covered by pension and post-retirement
    benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon the
    company’s various assumptions, including estimates of rates
    of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future
    payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for
    future costs. In addition, funding requirements for benefit
    obligations of the company’s pension and post-retirement
    benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government
    regulatory actions. Variances from these estimates could have a
    material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated
    financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
    Recent volatility in the financial markets has resulted in lower
    than expected returns on the company’s pension plan assets,
    resulting in potentially higher pension costs in future periods.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company’s Insurance Coverage May Be Inadequate to
    Cover All of Its Significant Risks or Its Insurers May Deny
    Coverage of Material Losses Incurred By the Company, Which Could
    Adversely Affect The Company’s Profitability and Overall
    Financial Position.





 


    The company endeavors to identify and obtain in established
    markets insurance agreements to cover significant risks and
    liabilities (including, among others, natural disasters, product
    liability and business interruption). Not every risk or
    liability can be protected against by insurance, and, for
    insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in
    the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or
    liabilities incurred. In some, but not all, circumstances the
    company may receive indemnification from the
    U.S. Government. Because of the limitations in overall
    available coverage referred to above, the company may have to
    bear substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have an
    adverse effect upon its consolidated results of operations and
    its overall consolidated financial position. Additionally,
    disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the
    timing of cash flows and, where litigation with the carrier
    becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to the company may
    have a material adverse effect on the company’s
    consolidated results of operations. See Note 15 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Current Trends in U.S. Government Procurement May
    Adversely Affect Cash Flows or Program Profitability.





 


    The company, like others in the defense industry, is aware of a
    potential problem presented by strict compliance with the
    Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
    preference for enumerated specialty metals sourced domestically
    or from certain foreign countries. Subcontractors and lower-tier
    suppliers have made disclosures indicating inability to comply
    with the rule as written. Subject to limitations,



    
    -17-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    inability to certify that all enumerated specialty metals in a
    product comply with sourcing requirements can lead to
    U.S. Government customers preventing delivery of materiel
    and products critical to national defense.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and
    adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect the
    company’s ability to access cost-effective sources of
    funding.





 


    The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme
    volatility and disruption in late 2008 and early 2009.
    Historically, the company has occasionally accessed these
    markets to support certain business activities including
    acquisitions, capital expansion projects, refinancing existing
    debt, and issuing letters of credit. In the future, the company
    may not be able to obtain capital market financing or credit
    availability on similar terms, or at all, which could have a
    material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated
    financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company is Subject to Changes in United States and
    Global Market Conditions That Are Beyond the Company’s
    Control and May Have a Material Effect on the Company’s
    Business and Results of Operations.





 


    The United States and global economies are currently
    experiencing a period of substantial economic uncertainty with
    wide-ranging effects, including the current disruption in global
    financial markets. Possible effects of these economic events are
    described in the preceding risk factors, including those
    relating to U.S. Government defense spending, business
    disruptions caused by suppliers or subcontractors, impairment of
    goodwill and other long-lived assets, pension costs and access
    to capital and credit markets. Although governments worldwide,
    including the U.S. Government, have initiated sweeping
    economic plans, the company is unable to predict the impact,
    severity, and duration of these economic events, which could
    have a material effect on the company’s consolidated
    financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.


 



    Item 1B