Item 1A.



    
    -1-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 

 



    Organization





    The company is aligned into seven reportable segments
    categorized into four primary businesses. The Mission Systems,
    Information Technology, and Technical Services segments are
    presented as Information & Services. The Integrated
    Systems and Space Technology segments are presented as
    Aerospace. The Electronics and Ships segments are each presented
    as separate businesses. Newport News and Ship Systems are
    aggregated and reported as the Ships business in accordance with
    the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 131 – Disclosures about Segments of an
    Enterprise and Related Information.


 


    The company, from time to time, acquires or disposes of
    businesses, and realigns contracts, programs or business areas
    among and within its operating segments that possess similar
    customers, expertise, and capabilities. These realignments are
    designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and
    enhance development and delivery of products and services. For a
    description of material business dispositions that occurred
    during 2007, see Note 5 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8. In January 2007,
    certain programs and business areas were transferred among
    Information Technology, Mission Systems, Space Technology, and
    Technical Services. The business descriptions below and
    operating results for all periods presented have been revised to
    reflect these changes made through December 31, 2007.


 


    Subsequent Realignments – In January 2008, the
    Newport News and Ship Systems sectors were realigned into a
    single segment called Northrop Grumman Shipbuilding to enable
    the company to more effectively utilize its shipbuilding assets
    and deploy its talented shipbuilders, processes, technologies,
    production facilities and planned capital investment to meet
    customer needs. This realignment had no impact on the
    company’s consolidated financial position, results of
    operations, cash flows, or segment reporting.


 


    Also in January 2008, the company announced the transfer of
    certain programs and assets from the Mission Systems segment to
    the Space Technology segment, effective July 1, 2008. This
    transfer will allow Mission Systems to focus on the rapidly
    growing command, control, communications, computers,
    intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR) business,
    and the missiles business will be an integrated element of the
    company’s Aerospace business growth strategy. In addition,
    certain Electronics businesses were transferred to Mission
    Systems effective January 2008. The transfer of these businesses
    is not expected to have a material effect on the company’s
    consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash
    flows.


 


    These subsequent realignments have not been reflected in any of
    the accompanying financial information.


 



    INFORMATION &
    SERVICES


 



    Mission
    Systems





    The Mission Systems segment, headquartered in Reston, Virginia,
    is a leading global systems integrator of complex,
    mission-enabling systems for government, military, and
    commercial customers. The segment consists of three areas of
    business: Command, Control and Communications (C3);
    Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR); and
    Missile Systems.


 


    Command, Control and Communications – C3
    supports the DoD, aerospace prime contractors, and other
    customers. Offerings include operational and tactical command
    and control systems; communications solutions and network
    management; tactical data link communications products and
    integration; network services; software defined radios; decision
    support and management information systems; system engineering
    and integration; land forces and global combat support;
    intelligence support to operations, mission planning and
    management applications; critical infrastructure security and
    force protection; logistics automation; robotic systems;
    homeland security solutions; naval systems engineering support
    and integration; and command centers integration.


 


    Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance –
    ISR supports the Intelligence Community, the DoD, and other
    federal agencies. Offerings include large systems integration;
    net-centric signals intelligence; airborne reconnaissance;
    payload control; tasking and collection; satellite ground
    stations; data collection and storage; information analysis and
    knowledge integration; computer network operations; information
    operations and information assurance; analysis and visualization
    tools; environmental and weather systems; special intelligence;
    and sustainment services.



    
    -2-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    Missile Systems – Missile Systems supports the
    Air Force Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Program, the
    U.S. Ballistic Missile Defense System, the Missile Defense
    Integration Operations Center, and the Kinetic Energy
    Interceptors (KEI) program in support of the U.S. Air
    Force, the U.S. Army, the Missile Defense Agency, and other
    aerospace prime contractors. Offerings include battle
    management, command, control, communications (BMC3) and fire
    control systems; air and missile system engineering and
    integration; modeling and simulation; program management; system
    test and integration; development and deployment; missile system
    sustainment and modernization services; warfighter operations;
    and development and test activities for boost phase and
    midcourse intercept for the global layered missile defense
    system.


 



    Information
    Technology





    The Information Technology segment, headquartered in McLean,
    Virginia, consists of four areas of business: Intelligence;
    Civilian Agencies; Commercial, State & Local; and
    Defense.


 


    Intelligence – Intelligence provides
    information technology (IT) systems, services and solutions
    primarily to the U.S. Intelligence Community, which
    includes customers in national agencies, defense, homeland
    security, and other agencies at the federal, state and local
    level. This business area also collaborates with other
    Information Technology business areas by providing specialized
    technology solutions in areas such as information security,
    secure wireless communications, secure cross agency
    information-sharing and geospatial information systems. Services
    and solutions span the entire mission life cycle from
    requirements and technology development through processing and
    data analysis to information delivery.


 


    Civilian Agencies – Civilian Agencies provides
    IT systems, services and solutions primarily for federal
    civilian agencies, as well as government and commercial
    healthcare customers. Civilian Agencies customers include the
    departments of Homeland Security, Treasury, Justice,
    Transportation, State, Interior, and the U.S. Postal
    Service. Homeland Security offerings include secure networking,
    criminal justice systems, and identity management. Healthcare
    customers include the Department of Health and Human Services,
    DoD Health Affairs, the Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of
    Veterans Affairs, and a number of pharmaceutical manufacturers.
    Healthcare offerings include enterprise architecture, systems
    integration, infrastructure management, document management,
    human capital management, case management, and specialized
    health IT solutions in electronic medical records pertaining to
    public health, life sciences, disease surveillance, benefits,
    and clinical trials research.


 


    Commercial, State & Local –
    Commercial, State & Local provides IT systems,
    services and solutions primarily for state and local agencies
    and commercial customers. The commercial business centers on
    managed IT services both as a prime contractor and partner in
    addition to specialized solutions that address specific business
    needs. The state and local focus includes public safety, secure
    wireless solutions, human services, and managed IT services.
    This business area provides IT outsourcing services on a
    “service level agreement” basis, where contractual
    terms are based on infrastructure volume and service levels.
    Services include management of data centers, networks, desktops,
    storage, security, help desk, and applications. Specialized
    state and local offerings include systems for
    police/fire/medical emergency dispatch, public safety command
    centers, biometric identification, and human services.


 


    Defense – Defense provides IT systems, services
    and solutions to all elements of the DoD including the Air
    Force, Navy, Army, Marines, the Office of the Secretary of
    Defense, and the Unified Combatant Commands. Offerings include
    business applications and systems integration related to human
    capital and business management, logistics, transportation,
    supply chain, and combat systems support. Other offerings
    consist of information technology and network infrastructures,
    including modernization, architecture, design and capacity
    modeling. Defense also provides solutions and services for
    defense technology laboratories and research and development
    centers, system program offices, operational commands, education
    and training commands, test centers, and other defense agencies.



    
    -3-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Technical
    Services





    The Technical Services segment, headquartered in Herndon,
    Virginia, provides infrastructure management and maintenance,
    training and preparedness, and logistics and life cycle
    management in a wide array of operating environments. The
    segment consists of three areas of business: Systems Support;
    Training and Simulation; and Life Cycle Optimization and
    Engineering.


 


    Systems Support – Systems Support provides
    infrastructure and base operations management, including base
    support and civil engineering work, military aerial and ground
    range operations, support functions which include space launch
    services, construction, combat vehicle maintenance, protective
    and emergency services, and range-sensor-instrumentation
    operations. Primary customers include the Department of Energy,
    the DoD, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
    (NASA), the Department of Homeland Security, and the
    U.S. Intelligence community, in both domestic and
    international locations.


 


    Training and Simulation – Training and
    Simulation provides realistic and comprehensive training to
    senior military leaders and peacekeeping forces, designs and
    develops future conflict training scenarios, and provides
    U.S. warfighters and international allies with live,
    virtual, and constructive training programs. This business area
    also offers diverse training applications ranging from battle
    command to professional military education. Primary customers
    include the DoD, Department of State and Department of Homeland
    Security.


 


    Life Cycle Optimization and Engineering – Life
    Cycle Optimization and Engineering provides complete life cycle
    product support and weapons system sustainment. This business
    area is focused on providing Performance Based Logistical
    support to the warfighter including supply chain management
    services, warehousing and inventory transportation, field
    services and mobilization, sustaining engineering, maintenance,
    repair and overhaul supplies, and on-going weapon maintenance
    and technical assistance. The group specializes in rebuilding
    essential parts and assemblies. Primary customers include the
    DoD as well as international military and commercial customers.


 



    AEROSPACE


 



    Integrated
    Systems





    The Integrated Systems segment, headquartered in El Segundo,
    California, designs, develops, produces, and supports fully
    missionized integrated systems and subsystems in the areas of
    battlespace awareness, command and control systems, integrated
    combat systems, and airborne ground surveillance. The segment is
    organized into the following areas of business: Integrated
    Systems Western Region (ISWR) and Integrated Systems Eastern
    Region (ISER).


 


    Integrated Systems Western Region – The
    principal manned vehicle programs in ISWR are subcontractor work
    on the
    F/A-18 and
    F-35 programs and prime contract work on the B-2 program and the
    Multi-Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP-RTIP). For
    the F/A-18,
    ISWR is responsible for the full integration of the center and
    aft fuselage and vertical tail sections and associated
    subsystems. For the F-35, ISWR is responsible for the detailed
    design and integration and production of the center fuselage and
    weapons bay, systems engineering, mission system software,
    autonomic logistics and global sustainment, ground and flight
    test support, signature/low observables development, and support
    of modeling and simulation activities. ISWR is the prime systems
    integration contractor for the MP-RTIP, which will provide
    advanced radar capabilities for the Global Hawk UAV and
    potential future Wide Area Surveillance (WAS) platform. ISWR is
    working on a radar and avionics upgrade program for the B-2
    bomber and is a prime integrator for all logistics support
    activities including program depot maintenance.


 


    The principal unmanned vehicle programs at ISWR are the Global
    Hawk, the Naval Unmanned Combat Air System (N-UCAS), Aerial
    Targets, and the Fire Scout. ISWR is the prime contractor for
    these product lines with the exception of the Army version of
    Fire Scout for Future Combat Systems (FCS). The Global Hawk is a
    high altitude long endurance unmanned aerial reconnaissance
    system. N-UCAS is a development/demonstration program that will
    design, build and test two demonstration vehicles that will
    conduct a carrier demonstration. The technology demonstrations
    are to show carrier control area operations, catapult launch,
    and an arrested



    
    -4-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    landing of a low observable unmanned aerial combat vehicle.
    Aerial Targets has two primary models, the
    BQM-74 and
    the BQM-34
    and is the prime contractor on multiple domestic and
    international contracts. Fire Scout is a vertical takeoff and
    landing tactical UAV system in development and consists of two
    versions – the Vertical Takeoff and Landing Unmanned
    Air Vehicle (VTUAV) for the U.S. Navy and the FCS
    Class IV UAV for the U.S. Army.


 



    Integrated
    Systems Eastern Region





    Airborne Early Warning and Battle Management
    Command & Control-Navy (AEW &
    BMC2) – AEW & BMC2’s principal
    products include the
    E-2C Hawkeye
    and E-2D
    Advanced Hawkeye aircraft (currently in the system development
    and demonstration (SDD) phase of development and Pilot
    Production). The Hawkeye is the U.S. Navy’s airborne
    battle management command and control mission system platform
    providing airborne early warning detection, identification,
    tracking, targeting, and communication capabilities. The company
    is currently performing on a follow-on multi-year contract for
    eight E-2C
    aircraft to be delivered to the U.S. Navy through 2009 (two
    aircraft delivered in 2006 and two aircraft delivered in 2007).
    The company is developing the next generation capability
    including radar, mission computer, vehicle, and other system
    enhancements called the
    E-2D
    Advanced Hawkeye under an SDD contract with the U.S. Navy.
    Pilot Production of three aircraft was authorized in 2007 and
    long lead funding for the first lot of Low Rate Initial
    Production (three aircraft) was received in December 2007.


 


    Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance & Battle
    Management Command & Control – Air Force
    (ISR & BMC2-AF) – ISR &
    BMC2-AF is the prime contractor on the Joint Surveillance Target
    Attack Radar System (Joint STARS) program. Joint STARS detects,
    locates, classifies, tracks, and targets potentially hostile
    ground movement in all weather conditions. It is designed to
    operate around the clock in constant communication through
    secure data links with U.S. Air Force command posts,
    U.S. Army mobile ground stations, or centers for military
    analysis far from the point of conflict. The Joint STARS program
    is currently developing performance upgrades and retrofits under
    an ongoing Systems Improvement Program. Fleet sustainment is
    performed through the Total Systems Support contract currently
    in its eighth fiscal year. In February 2007, an initial
    non-recurring contract was awarded to re-engine the fleet of
    nineteen aircraft with modern, more reliable, powerful and fuel
    efficient engines. Follow-on nonrecurring efforts and recurring
    contract awards are expected in 2008. Following the
    customer’s decision in 2007 not to fund the
    E-10A
    Technology Demonstration Development Program, a one-year Mission
    Execution Program study contract was awarded that will leverage
    the E-10A
    analysis and design concepts for the Joint STARS platform.


 


    Electronic Support & Attack Solutions
    (ES & AS) – ES & AS’
    principal products include the EA-6B (Prowler) and the
    electronic attack system for the
    EA-18G
    aircraft. The Prowler is currently the armed services’ only
    offensive tactical radar jamming aircraft. ES & AS has
    developed the next generation mission system for this aircraft
    under the Increased Capacity (ICAP) III contract and has
    completed the final test and evaluation phase. The company
    completed the low-rate initial production for ICAP III Kits
    during 2006, and was awarded a follow-on contract for ICAP III
    Kits & Spares, with deliveries commencing in 2007. In
    addition, the company is performing on a contract to incorporate
    the ICAP III mission system into an
    F/A-18
    platform, designated the
    EA-18G.
    Integrated Systems is the principal subcontractor to Boeing for
    this program, which is currently in the SDD phase. Northrop
    Grumman has been authorized to begin production of Low Rate
    Initial Production units.


 


    Maritime & Tactical Systems – The
    principal programs include the Littoral Combat Ship Mission
    Package Integration contract and Mine Counter Measures contracts
    with multiple customers that focus on detecting and neutralizing
    in-land,
    coastal and water surface/subsurface mines.


 



    Space
    Technology





    The Space Technology segment, headquartered in Redondo Beach,
    California, develops a broad range of systems at the leading
    edge of space, defense, and electronics technology. The segment
    provides products primarily to the U.S. Government that are
    critical to the nation’s security and leadership in science
    and technology. In October 2007, Space Technology realigned its
    organizational structure to better position itself with its
    customer base for



    
    -5-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    future growth. Products and services are grouped into the
    following business areas: Civil Systems; Military Systems;
    National Systems; and Technology & Emerging Systems.


 


    Civil Systems – The Civil Systems business area
    produces and integrates space-based systems, instruments, and
    services primarily for NASA, the National Oceanic and
    Atmospheric Administration, and other governmental agencies.
    These systems are primarily used for space science, earth
    observation and environmental monitoring, and exploration
    missions. A variety of systems and services are provided,
    including mission and system engineering services, satellite and
    instrument systems, mission operations, and propulsion systems.
    Major programs include National Polar-orbiting Operational
    Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS), the James Webb Space
    Telescope (JWST), and the legacy Chandra space telescope and
    Earth Observing System programs.


 


    Military Systems – Military Systems produces
    and integrates spiral development programs and operational
    programs associated with the U.S. Air Force, Missile
    Defense Agency, and other military customers. Responsibilities
    include study design, build integration, launch, and operations
    of major U.S. military space systems. Programs include the
    Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) payload,
    Transformational Satellite (TSAT) communications system, Space
    Tracking and Surveillance System (STSS), and the communication
    payload for the legacy Milstar program, currently in operation.
    The Defense Support Program (DSP) is also part of this business
    area, and has been monitoring ballistic missile launches for the
    U.S. Air Force for decades.


 


    National Systems – The National Systems
    business area gives the nation’s monitoring systems a
    global reach and enhanced national security. Addressing
    requirements in space-based intelligence, surveillance, and
    reconnaissance systems, National Systems provides mission and
    system engineering, satellite systems, and mission operations.
    Customers are predominantly restricted, as are the major
    programs.


 


    Technology & Emerging Systems –
    Technology & Emerging Systems consists of government
    funded research and development contracts in support of the
    three business areas above. In addition, it includes the
    Airborne Laser (ABL), other directed energy programs and
    advanced concepts programs.


 



    ELECTRONICS


 


    The Electronics segment, headquartered in Linthicum, Maryland,
    designs, develops, produces, integrates, and supports high
    performance sensors, intelligence processing, and navigation
    systems operating in all environments from undersea to outer
    space and cyberspace. It also develops, produces, integrates,
    and supports power, power control, and ship control systems for
    commercial and naval ships in domestic and international
    markets. In select markets it performs as a prime contractor,
    integrating multiple subsystems to provide complete systems to
    meet customers’ solution requirements. The segment is
    composed of five areas of business: Aerospace Systems; Defensive
    Systems; Government Systems; Naval & Marine Systems;
    and Navigation Systems.


 


    Aerospace Systems – Aerospace Systems provides
    sensors, sensor processing, integrated sensor suites, and radar
    countermeasure systems for military surveillance and
    precision-strike; missile tracking and warning; space satellite
    applications; and radio frequency electronic warfare. Fire
    control radars include systems for the
    F-16,
    F-22,
    F-35 and
    B-1B.
    Navigation radars include commercial and military systems for
    transport and cargo aircraft. Surveillance products include the
    Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) radar, the 737
    Multi-Role Electronically Scanned Array (MESA) radar, the
    Multi-Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP-RTIP, the
    ship-board Cobra Judy Replacement (CJR) radar, and multiple
    payloads on the
    P-8A. Space
    satellite products include the Space-Based Infrared Surveillance
    (SBIRS) program, payloads for restricted programs, the Defense
    Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP), NPOESS, and the DSP.
    Radio frequency electronic warfare products include radar
    warning receivers, self-protection jammers, and integrated
    electronic warfare systems for aircraft such as the
    EA-6B,
    EA-18,
    F-16 and
    F-15.


 


    Defensive Systems – Defensive Systems provides
    systems that support combat aviation by protecting aircraft and
    helicopters from attack, by providing capabilities for precise
    targeting and tactical surveillance, by improving mission
    availability through automated test systems and by improving
    mission skills through advanced simulation systems. It also
    provides systems that support land forces. Aircraft and
    helicopter protection systems include



    
    -6-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    infrared detection and countermeasures systems to defeat
    shoulder-launched and infrared-guided missiles. Targeting
    systems include lasers for target designation and image
    processing and sensor applications, and the LITENING pod system
    to detect and designate targets for engagement by precision
    weapons in aircraft such as the F-16 and
    F/A-18. Test
    systems include systems to test electronic components of combat
    aircraft on the flight line and in repair facilities. Land force
    systems include precision guided munitions for artillery and UAV
    delivery, night vision goggles, laser designators, weapon
    sights, tactical radars for warning of missile and artillery
    attack, and fire control radars for helicopters. Defensive
    Systems also provides standard simulators for use on test ranges
    and training facilities to emulate threats of potential
    adversaries.


 


    Government Systems – Government Systems
    provides products and services to meet the needs of governments
    for improvements in the effectiveness of their civil and
    military infrastructure and of their combat and
    counter-terrorism operations. This includes systems and systems
    integration of products and services for postal automation, for
    the detection and alert of Chemical, Biological, Radiological,
    Nuclear and Explosive (CBRNE) material, for homeland defense,
    communications, and air traffic management, and for multi-sensor
    processing and analysis for combat units and national agencies
    of data from ISR systems. Key programs include: Advanced Flat
    Sorting Machines; International Sorting Centers;
    U.S. Postal Service bio-detection systems; national level
    communications, information processing and air defense systems
    for international customers; unattended ground sensors; the ISR
    Distributed Common Ground System for the U.S. military
    services and national agencies; and deployed ISR and persistent
    surveillance processing systems.


 


    Naval & Marine Systems – Naval and
    Marine Systems provides major subsystems and subsystem
    integration for sensors, sensor processing, missile launching,
    ship controls and power generation. It provides systems to
    military surface and subsurface platforms, and bridge and
    machinery control systems for commercial maritime applications.
    Principal programs include: radars for navigation; radars for
    gun fire control and cruise missile defense; bridge management
    and control systems; power generation systems for aircraft
    carriers; power and propulsion systems for the Virginia Class
    submarine; launch systems for Trident submarines and the KEI
    program; the Advanced SEAL Delivery System mini-submarine; and
    unmanned semi-autonomous naval systems.


 


    Navigation Systems – Navigation Systems
    provides advanced navigation, identification of friend or foe
    and avionics systems for military and commercial applications.
    Its products are used in commercial space and aircraft; in
    military air, land, sea, and space systems; and in both
    U.S. and international markets. Its subsidiaries, LITEF
    Germany and Northrop Grumman Italia, are leading European
    inertial sensors and systems suppliers. Key programs and
    applications include: integrated avionics for the
    U.S. Marine Corps attack and utility helicopters and
    U.S. Navy
    E-2
    aircraft; military navigation and positioning systems for the
    F-16 fighter, F-22A fighter/attack aircraft, Eurofighter, and
    U.S. Navy MH-60 helicopter; navigation systems for
    commercial aircraft; navigation systems for military and civil
    space satellites and deep space exploration; identification of
    friend-or-foe transponders and interrogators; and systems for
    the C-17 aircraft, Eurofighter and MH-60 helicopter. Navigation
    Systems also develops and produces fiber-optic acoustic systems
    for underwater surveillance for Virginia Class submarines and
    the AN/TYQ-23 multi-service mobile tactical command centers for
    the U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Air Force.


 



    SHIPS


 


    The Ships segment includes the following areas of business:
    Aircraft Carriers; Expeditionary Warfare; Surface Combatants;
    Submarines; Coast Guard & Coastal Defense; Fleet
    Support; and Services, Commercial & Other.


 


    Aircraft Carriers – Ships is the nation’s
    sole industrial designer, builder, and refueler of
    nuclear-powered aircraft carriers. The U.S. Navy’s
    newest carrier, the USS Ronald Reagan, was delivered to
    the fleet in May 2004. Construction on the last carrier in the
    Nimitz class, the George H. W. Bush, continues. The
    Bush christening occurred in the fall of 2006 and
    delivery to the U.S. Navy is expected in late 2008.
    Advanced design and preparation continues for the new generation
    carrier, Ford class, which will incorporate transformational
    technologies that will result in manning reductions, improved
    war fighting capability, and a new nuclear propulsion plant
    design. The construction award for the first ship of the Ford
    class, the Gerald R. Ford, is



    
    -7-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    expected in mid 2008. The company also provides ongoing
    maintenance for the U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet
    through overhaul, refueling, and repair work. Ships is currently
    performing the refueling and complex overhaul of the USS Carl
    Vinson with redelivery to the U.S. Navy anticipated in
    early 2009. Planning for the USS Theodore Roosevelt
    refueling and complex overhaul began in the fall of 2006 and
    the ship is expected to arrive at Newport News, Virginia in the
    fall of 2009.


 


    Expeditionary Warfare – Expeditionary Warfare
    programs include the design and construction of amphibious
    assault ships for the U.S. Navy, including the WASP LHD 1
    class and the San Antonio LPD 17 class. Ships is the sole
    provider for the LHD class of large-deck, 40,500-ton
    multipurpose amphibious assault ships, which serve as the
    centerpiece of an Amphibious Ready Group. Currently, the LHD 8
    is under construction and is a significant upgrade from the
    preceding seven ships of its class. The design and production of
    the LHD 8 is a $1.9 billion program with delivery scheduled
    for late 2008. In 2007, the construction contract for LHA 6, the
    first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault ships, was
    awarded. The ship is scheduled for delivery in 2012. Ships is
    also the sole provider of the LPD 17 class of ships, which
    function as amphibious transports. The initial three ships were
    delivered in 2005, 2006, and 2007, and five LPD 17 ships are
    currently under construction. In December 2007, the construction
    award for the ninth ship was received.


 


    Surface Combatants – Surface Combatants
    includes the design and construction of the Arleigh Burke DDG 51
    class Aegis guided missile destroyers, and the design of
    DDG 1000 (previously DD(X)), the Navy’s future
    transformational surface combatant class. Ships is one of two
    prime contractors designing and building DDG 51 class
    destroyers, which provide primary anti-aircraft and anti-missile
    ship protection for the U.S. Navy fleet. Four Arleigh Burke
    class destroyers are currently under construction. In 2006,
    Ships was awarded Phase IV detail design & long
    lead construction funding for the initial DDG 1000. The contract
    calls for an equal split of ship detail design efforts between
    the company and Bath Iron Works, a wholly owned subsidiary of
    General Dynamics Corporation. The construction award for the
    initial ship is anticipated in the first half of 2008. The
    advanced technologies developed on DD(X) Phase III are
    being incorporated into DDG 1000 and are anticipated to be
    incorporated into the next generation guided missile cruiser
    CG(X).


 


    Submarines – Northrop Grumman is one of only
    two U.S. companies capable of designing and building
    nuclear-powered submarines. In February 1997, the company and
    Electric Boat, a wholly owned subsidiary of General Dynamics
    Corporation, reached an agreement to cooperatively build
    Virginia Class nuclear attack submarines. The lead ship,
    USS Virginia, was delivered by Electric Boat to the
    U.S. Navy and commissioned into the fleet in October 2004.
    The USS Texas was delivered by Ships in the spring of
    2006. The USS Hawaii was delivered by Electric Boat in
    December 2006, and North Carolina, the final block one
    ship, is expected to be delivered by Ships in early 2008.
    Electric Boat and Ships were awarded a construction contract in
    August 2003, which was subsequently modified in January 2004,
    for the second block of six Virginia Class submarines.
    Planning and long lead material procurement is underway on all
    six boats of the second block; construction has begun on the
    first four. The construction award for the third block is
    expected in late 2008.


 


    Coast Guard & Coastal Defense – Ships
    is a joint venture partner along with Lockheed Martin for the
    Coast Guard’s Deepwater Modernization Program. Ships has
    design and production responsibility for surface ships. In 2006,
    the Ships/Lockheed Martin joint venture was awarded a
    43 month contract extension for the Deepwater program.
    Currently, the first three National Security Cutters (NSC) are
    in construction. The initial NSC will be delivered in early 2008.


 


    Fleet Support – Ships provides after-market
    services, including on-going maintenance and repair work, for a
    wide array of naval and commercial vessels. The company has ship
    repair facilities in the U.S. Navy’s largest homeports
    of Norfolk, Virginia, and San Diego, California.


 


    Services, Commercial & Other – Under
    the Polar Tanker program, Ships was under contract to produce
    five double-hulled tankers. These tankers each transport one
    million barrels of crude oil from Alaska to west coast
    refineries and are fully compliant with the Oil Pollution Act of
    1990. The last ship under this program was delivered in mid-2006.



    
    -8-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Corporate





    The company’s principal executive offices are located at
    1840 Century Park East, Los Angeles, California 90067. The
    company’s telephone number is
    (310) 553-6262.
    The company’s home page on the Internet is
    www.northropgrumman.com. The company makes web site content
    available for informational purposes, and such content is not
    incorporated by reference into this
    Form 10-K,
    unless so specified herein.


 



    SUMMARY
    SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA


 


    For a more complete understanding of the company’s segment
    financial information, see Segment Operating Results in
    Part II, Item 7, and Note 6 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8.


 



    CUSTOMERS
    AND REVENUE CONCENTRATION


 


    The company’s primary customer is the U.S. Government.
    Revenue from the U.S. Government accounted for
    approximately 90 percent of total revenues in 2007, 2006,
    and 2005. No other customer accounted for more than
    10 percent of total revenue during any period presented. No
    single product or service accounted for more than
    10 percent of total revenue during any period presented.
    See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.


 



    PATENTS


 


    The following table summarizes the number of patents the company
    owns or has pending as of December 31, 2007:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Owned
    


 


 


    Pending
    


 


 


    Total


 





    U.S. patents



 


 


    3,572


 


 


 


    708


 


 


 


    4,280


 





    Foreign patents



 


 


    2,464


 


 


 


    1,767


 


 


 


    4,231


 




 





    Total



 


 


    6,036


 


 


 


    2,475


 


 


 


    8,511


 




 








 


    Patents developed while under contract with the
    U.S. Government may be subject to use by the
    U.S. Government. In addition the company licenses
    intellectual property to, and from, third parties. Management
    believes the company’s ability to conduct its operations
    would not be materially affected by the loss of any particular
    intellectual property right.


 



    SEASONALITY


 


    No material portion of the company’s business is considered
    to be seasonal. The timing of revenue recognition is based on
    several factors including the timing of contract awards, the
    incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit
    deliveries. See Revenue Recognition in Part II, Item 7.


 



    RAW
    MATERIALS


 


    The most significant raw material required by the company is
    steel, used primarily for shipbuilding. The company has
    mitigated supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with a
    number of steel suppliers. In addition, the company has
    mitigated price risk related to its steel purchases through
    certain contractual arrangements with the U.S. Government.
    While the company has generally been able to obtain key raw
    materials required in its production processes in a timely
    manner, a significant delay in receipt of these supplies by the
    company could have a material effect on the company’s
    consolidated results of operations. See Risk Factors in
    Part I, Item 1A.


 



    GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION


 


    The company’s business is affected by numerous laws and
    regulations relating to the award, administration and
    performance of U.S. Government contracts. See Risk Factors
    in Part I, Item 1A.


 


    Certain programs with the U.S. Government that are
    prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in
    detail are referred to as “restricted” in this
    Form 10-K.
    The consolidated financial statements and financial



    
    -9-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    information contained within this
    Form 10-K
    reflect the operating results of restricted programs under
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America (GAAP). See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.


 



    RESEARCH
    AND DEVELOPMENT


 


    Company-sponsored research and development activities primarily
    include independent research and development (IR&D) efforts
    related to government programs. IR&D expenses are included
    in general and administrative expenses and are allocated to
    U.S. Government contracts. Company-sponsored research and
    development expenses totaled $537 million,
    $572 million, and $536 million in 2007, 2006, and
    2005, respectively. Expenses for research and development
    sponsored by the customer are charged directly to the related
    contracts.


 



    EMPLOYEE
    RELATIONS


 


    The company believes that it maintains good relations with its
    122,600 employees, of which approximately 17 percent
    are covered by 32 collective bargaining agreements. The company
    expects to re-negotiate nine of its collective bargaining
    agreements in 2008. It is not expected that the results of these
    negotiations will, either individually or in the aggregate, have
    a material adverse effect on the company’s results of
    operations. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.


 



    ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS


 


    Federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the
    environment affect the company’s manufacturing operations.
    The company has provided for the estimated cost to complete
    environmental remediation where the company has determined it is
    probable that the company will incur such costs in the future to
    address environmental impacts at currently or formerly owned or
    leased operating facilities, or at sites where it has been named
    a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the Environmental
    Protection Agency or similarly designated by other environmental
    agencies. These estimates may change given the inherent
    difficulty in estimating environmental cleanup costs to be
    incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the
    extent of the required cleanup, determination of legally
    responsible parties, and the status of laws, regulations, and
    their interpretations.


 


    In order to assess the potential impact on the company’s
    financial statements, management estimates the possible
    remediation costs that reasonably could be incurred by the
    company on a
    site-by-site
    basis. Such estimates take into consideration the professional
    judgment of the company’s environmental engineers and, when
    necessary, consultation with outside environmental specialists.
    In most instances, only a range of reasonably possible costs can
    be estimated. However, in the determination of accruals, the
    most probable amount is used when determinable, and the minimum
    is used when no single amount is more probable. The company
    records accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the
    accounting period in which the company’s responsibility is
    established and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The
    company does not anticipate and record insurance recoveries
    before it has determined that collection is probable.


 


    Management estimates that at December 31, 2007, the range
    of reasonably possible future costs for environmental
    remediation sites is $186 million to $285 million, of
    which $223 million is accrued in other current liabilities
    in the consolidated statements of financial position.
    Environmental accruals are recorded on an undiscounted basis. At
    sites involving multiple parties, the company provides
    environmental accruals based upon its expected share of
    liability, taking into account the financial viability of other
    jointly liable parties. Environmental expenditures are expensed
    or capitalized as appropriate. Capitalized expenditures relate
    to long-lived improvements in currently operating facilities. In
    addition, should other PRPs not pay their allocable share of
    remediation costs, the company may have to incur costs in
    addition to those already estimated and accrued, which could
    have a material effect on the company’s consolidated
    financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The
    company has made the investments it believes necessary in order
    to comply with environmental laws.



    
    -10-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    COMPETITIVE
    CONDITIONS


 


    Northrop Grumman, along with Lockheed Martin Corporation, The
    Boeing Company, Raytheon Company, and General Dynamics
    Corporation are among the largest companies in the
    U.S. defense industry at this time. Northrop Grumman
    competes against these and other companies for a number of
    programs, both large and small. Intense competition and long
    operating cycles are both key characteristics of Northrop
    Grumman’s business and the defense industry. It is common
    in this industry for work on major programs to be shared among a
    number of companies. A company competing to be a prime
    contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another
    party, turn out to be a subcontractor for the ultimate prime
    contracting party. It is not uncommon to compete for a contract
    award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a
    supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts.
    The nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding
    contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a
    level of program continuity not common in many industries.


 


    The company’s success in the competitive defense industry
    depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and
    services, as well as its ability to provide the people,
    technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity
    needed to deliver those products and services with maximum
    efficiency. It is necessary to maintain, as the company has,
    sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic
    components, and major subassemblies. In this manufacturing and
    systems integration environment, effective oversight of
    subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success as managing
    internal operations.


 


    Similarly, there is intense competition among many companies in
    the information and services markets which is generally more
    labor intensive with competitive margin rates over contract
    periods of shorter duration. Competitors in the information and
    services markets include the defense industry participants
    mentioned above as well as many other large and small entities
    with expertise in various specialized areas. The company’s
    ability to successfully compete in the information and services
    markets depends on a number of factors; most important is the
    capability to deploy skilled professionals, many requiring
    security clearances, at competitive prices across the diverse
    spectrum of these markets. Accordingly, various workforce
    initiatives are in place to ensure the company is successful in
    attracting, developing and retaining sufficient resources to
    maintain or improve its competitive position within these
    markets. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.


 



    EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS


 


    See Part III, Item 10, for information about executive
    officers of the company.


 



    AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION


 


    Throughout this
    Form 10-K,
    the company incorporates by reference information from parts of
    other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC). The SEC allows the company to disclose
    important information by referring to it in this manner, and you
    should review this information in addition to the information
    contained herein.


 


    The company’s annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and proxy statement for the annual shareholders’ meeting,
    as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free
    of charge through the company’s web site as soon as
    reasonably practicable after electronic filing of such material
    with the SEC. You can learn more about the company by reviewing
    the company’s SEC filings on the company’s web site.
    The company’s SEC reports can be accessed through the
    investor relations page of the company’s web site at
    www.northropgrumman.com.


 


    The SEC also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains
    reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC
    registrants, including Northrop Grumman. The public may read and
    copy any materials filed by the company with the SEC at the
    SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
    N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain
    information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by
    calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.



    
    -11-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 

 


    Item 1A. Risk Factors


 


    The company’s consolidated financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of
    which are not exclusively within the company’s control,
    that may cause actual performance to differ materially from
    historical or projected future performance. Information
    contained within this
    Form 10-K
    should be carefully considered by investors in light of the risk
    factors described below.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company Depends Heavily on a Single Customer, the
    U.S. Government, for a Substantial Portion of the
    Company’s Business, Including Programs Subject to Security
    Classification Restrictions on Information. Changes Affecting
    this Customer’s Capacity to Do Business with the Company or
    the Effects of Competition in the Defense Industry Could Have a
    Material Adverse Effect On the Company or Its Prospects.





 


    Approximately 90 percent of the company’s revenues
    during 2007 were derived from products and services ultimately
    sold to the U.S. Government and are therefore affected by,
    among other things, the federal budget process. The company is a
    supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member,
    to the U.S. Government and its agencies as well as foreign
    governments and agencies. These contracts are subject to the
    respective customers’ political and budgetary constraints
    and processes, changes in customers’ short-range and
    long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, and
    in the case of contracts with the U.S. Government, the
    congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes,
    the U.S. Government’s ability to terminate contracts
    for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as
    contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain
    violations of legal and regulatory requirements. The termination
    or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the
    U.S. Government could have a material adverse effect on the
    company’s results of operations or prospects.


 


    In the event of termination for the government’s
    convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions
    covering reimbursement for costs incurred. The company is
    involved as a plaintiff in a lawsuit concerning a contract
    terminated for convenience. See Other Matters in Part I,
    Item 3. Termination resulting from the company’s
    default could expose the company to liability and have a
    material adverse effect on its ability to compete for contracts.


 


    In addition, a material amount of the company’s revenues
    and profits is derived from programs that are subject to
    security classification restrictions (restricted business),
    which could limit the company’s ability to discuss details
    about these programs, their risks or any disputes or claims
    relating to such programs. As a result, investors might have
    less insight into the company’s restricted business than
    other businesses of the company or could experience less ability
    to evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with
    restricted business.


 


    The company’s success in the competitive defense industry
    depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and
    services, as well as its ability to provide the people,
    technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity
    needed to deliver those products and services with maximum
    efficiency. A loss of business to the company’s competitors
    could have a material adverse affect on the company’s
    ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain
    market share.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Many of the Company’s Contracts Contain Performance
    Obligations That Require Innovative Design Capabilities, Are
    Technologically Complex, Require State-Of-The-Art Manufacturing
    Expertise or Are Dependent Upon Factors Not Wholly Within the
    Company’s Control. Failure to Meet These Obligations Could
    Adversely Affect the Company’s Profitability and Future
    Prospects.





 


    The company designs, develops and manufactures technologically
    advanced and innovative products and services applied by its
    customers in a variety of environments. Problems and delays in
    development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to
    design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning
    curve assumptions, or materials and components could prevent the
    company from achieving contractual requirements.



    
    -12-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    In addition, the company’s products cannot be tested and
    proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen
    problems. Examples of unforeseen problems which could negatively
    affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of
    spacecraft, premature failure, problems with quality, country of
    origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services, and
    unplanned degradation of product performance. These failures
    could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or
    property. Among the factors that may affect revenue and profits
    could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance
    or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management
    focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on
    work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the
    government customer of contract cost and fee payments previously
    received by the company.


 


    Certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems,
    contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in
    the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon
    launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period
    of time. Under such terms, the company could be required to
    forfeit fees previously recognized
    and/or
    collected. The company has not experienced any material losses
    in the last decade in connection with such contract performance
    incentive provisions. However, if the company were to experience
    launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the
    future, such events could have a material adverse impact on the
    company’s consolidated financial position or results of
    operations.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Contract Cost Growth on Fixed-Price and Other Contracts
    That Cannot Be Justified as an Increase In Contract Value Due
    From Customers Exposes The Company to Reduced Profitability and
    the Potential Loss of Future Business.





 


    Operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that
    cannot be billed to customers are incurred. This cost growth can
    occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical
    challenges or if initial estimates used for calculating the
    contract price were incorrect. The cost estimation process
    requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost
    growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the
    nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of
    change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any
    delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from
    the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover
    any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant
    change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a
    material effect on the company’s consolidated financial
    position or results of operations.


 


    Due to their nature, fixed-price contracts inherently have more
    risk than flexibly priced contracts and therefore generally
    carry higher profit margins. Approximately 30 percent of
    the company’s annual revenues are derived from fixed-price
    contracts – see Contracts in Part II,
    Item 7. Flexibly priced contracts may carry risk to the
    extent of their specific contract terms and conditions relating
    to performance award fees, including cost sharing agreements,
    and negative performance incentives. The company typically
    enters into fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably
    estimated based on experience. In addition, certain contracts
    other than fixed-price contracts have provisions relating to
    cost controls and audit rights. Should the terms specified in
    those contracts not be met, then profitability may be reduced.
    Fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of the
    company’s fixed-price contracts and inherently has more
    uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and
    therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete
    the development stage. As work progresses through the
    development stage into production, the risks associated with
    estimating the total costs of the contract are generally
    reduced. In addition, successful performance of fixed-price
    development contracts which include production units is subject
    to the company’s ability to control cost growth in meeting
    production specifications and delivery rates. While management
    uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with
    fixed-price development contracts, future events could result in
    either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates.
    Examples of the company’s significant fixed-price
    development contracts include the F-16 Block 60 combat
    avionics program and the MESA radar system program for the
    Wedgetail and Peace Eagle contracts, both of which are performed
    by the Electronics segment. It is also not unusual in the Ships
    business for the company to negotiate fixed-price



    
    -13-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    production follow-on contracts before the development effort has
    been completed and learning curves fully realized on existing
    flexibly priced development contracts.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company Uses Estimates When Accounting for Contracts.
    Changes In Estimates Could Affect The Company’s
    Profitability and Its Overall Financial Position.





 


    Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing
    risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making
    assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size
    and nature of many of the company’s contracts, the
    estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is
    complicated and subject to many variables. For example,
    assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to
    complete the contract because costs also include expected
    increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly,
    assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of
    efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives,
    awards, or penalties related to performance on contracts are
    considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are
    recorded when there is sufficient information to assess
    anticipated performance.


 


    Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation
    processes described above, it is possible that materially
    different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions
    were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change.
    Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates
    may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial
    reporting and performance. See Critical Accounting Policies,
    Estimates, and Judgments in Part II, Item 7.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company’s Operations Are Subject to Numerous
    Domestic and International Laws, Regulations and Restrictions,
    and Noncompliance With These Laws, Regulations and Restrictions
    Could Expose the Company to Fines, Penalties, Suspension or
    Debarment, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the
    Company’s Profitability and Its Overall Financial
    Position.





 


    The company has thousands of contracts and operations in many
    parts of the world subject to U.S. and foreign laws and
    regulations. Prime contracts with various agencies of the
    U.S. Government and subcontracts with other prime
    contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations,
    including the False Claims Act and the International Traffic in
    Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act,
    with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in
    fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving
    additional contracts with all U.S. Government agencies.
    Given the company’s dependence on U.S. Government
    business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse
    effect on the company.


 


    In addition, international business subjects the company to
    numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including,
    without limitation, regulations relating to import-export
    control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of
    earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
    and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export
    Administration Act. Failure by the company or its sales
    representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and
    regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal
    liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension
    or debarment from government contracts or suspension of the
    company’s export privileges, which could have a material
    adverse effect on the company. Changes in regulation or
    political environment may affect the company’s ability to
    conduct business in foreign markets including investment,
    procurement, and repatriation of earnings.


 


    The company operates in a highly regulated environment and is
    routinely audited by the U.S. Government and others. On a
    regular basis, the company monitors its policies and procedures
    with respect to its contracts to ensure consistent application
    under similar terms and conditions and to assess compliance with
    all applicable government regulations. Negative audit findings
    could result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of
    profits, or suspension of payments. From time to time the
    company is subject to U.S. Government investigations
    relating to its operations. Government contractors that are
    found to have violated the law such as the False Claims Act or
    the Arms Export Control Act, or are indicted or convicted for
    violations of other federal laws, or are found not to have acted
    responsibly as defined by the law, may be subject to significant
    fines. Such convictions could also result in suspension or
    debarment from government



    
    -14-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


    contracting for some period of time. Given the company’s
    dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment
    could have a material adverse effect on the company.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company’s Business Is Subject to Disruption
    Caused By Issues With Its Suppliers, Subcontractors, Workforce,
    Natural Disasters and Other Factors That Could Adversely Affect
    the Company’s Profitability and Its Overall Financial
    Position.





 


    The company may be affected by delivery or performance issues
    with key suppliers and subcontractors, as well as other factors
    that may cause operating results to be adversely affected.
    Changes in inventory requirements or other production cost
    increases may also have a negative effect on the company’s
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.


 


    Performance failures by a subcontractor of the company or
    difficulty in maintaining complete alignment of the
    subcontractor’s obligations with the company’s prime
    contract obligations may adversely affect the company’s
    ability to perform its obligations on the prime contract, which
    could reduce the company’s profitability due to damages or
    other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the
    subcontractor or from the customer and could result in a
    termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on
    the company’s ability to compete for future contracts.


 


    Operating results are heavily dependent upon the company’s
    ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with
    requisite skill sets
    and/or
    security clearances. The successful negotiation of collective
    bargaining agreements and avoidance of organized work stoppages
    are also critical to the ongoing operations of the company.


 


    The company has significant operations located in regions of the
    U.S. that may be exposed to damaging storms and other
    natural disasters. While preventative measures typically help to
    minimize harm to the company, the damage and disruption
    resulting from certain storms or other natural disasters may be
    significant. Although no assurances can be made, the company
    believes it can recover costs associated with natural disasters
    through insurance or its contracts.


 


    Natural disasters such as storms and earthquakes can disrupt
    electrical and other power distribution networks and cause
    adverse effects on profitability and performance, including
    computer and internet operation and accessibility. Computer
    viruses and similar harmful software programs, as well as
    network outages, disruptions and attacks also may have a
    material adverse effect on the company’s profitability and
    performance unless quarantined or otherwise prevented.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Changes In Future Business Conditions Could Cause Business
    Investments
    and/or
    Recorded Goodwill to Become Impaired, Resulting In Substantial
    Losses and Write-Downs That Would Reduce the Company’s
    Operating Income.





 


    As part of its overall strategy, the company will, from time to
    time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business.
    These investments are made upon careful target analysis and due
    diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or
    strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain
    assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. After
    acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely
    affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not
    recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after
    careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary
    significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounts for
    approximately half of the company’s recorded total assets.
    The company evaluates goodwill amounts for impairment annually,
    or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual
    impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment.
    Principally, a significant decrease in expected reporting unit
    cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate
    potential impairment of recorded goodwill. See Critical
    Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments in Part II,
    Item 7.



    
    -15-



Table of Contents







 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 

 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company Is Subject to Various Claims and Litigation
    That Could Ultimately Be Resolved Against The Company Requiring
    Material Future Cash Payments
    and/or
    Future Material Charges Against the Company’s Operating
    Income and Materially Impairing the Company’s Financial
    Position.





 


    The size and complexity of the company’s business make it
    highly susceptible to claims and litigation. The company is
    subject to environmental claims, income tax matters and other
    litigation, which, if not resolved within established accruals,
    could have a material adverse effect on the company’s
    consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash
    flows. See Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3, and
    Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments in
    Part II, Item 7.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Pension and Medical Expense Associated with the
    Company’s Retirement Benefit Plans May Fluctuate
    Significantly Depending Upon Changes in Actuarial Assumptions
    and Future Market Performance of Plan Assets.





 


    A substantial portion of the company’s current and retired
    employee population is covered by pension and post-retirement
    benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon the
    company’s various assumptions, including estimates of rates
    of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future
    payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for
    future costs. Variances from these estimates could have a
    material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated
    financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    The Company’s Insurance Coverage May Be Inadequate to
    Cover All of Its Significant Risks or Its Insurers May Deny
    Coverage of Material Losses Incurred By the Company, Which Could
    Adversely Affect The Company’s Profitability and Overall
    Financial Position.





 


    The company endeavors to identify and obtain in established
    markets insurance agreements to cover significant risks and
    liabilities (including, among others, natural disasters, product
    liability and business interruption). Not every risk or
    liability can be protected against by insurance, and, for
    insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in
    the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or
    liabilities incurred. In some, but not all, circumstances the
    company may receive indemnification from the
    U.S. Government. Because of the limitations in overall
    available coverage referred to above, the company may have to
    bear substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have an
    adverse effect upon its consolidated results of operations and
    its overall consolidated financial position. Additionally,
    disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the
    timing of cash flows and, where litigation with the carrier
    becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to the company may
    have a material adverse effect on the company’s
    consolidated results of operations. See Note 15 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Current Trends in U.S. Government Procurement May
    Adversely Affect Cash Flows or Program Profitability.





 


    The company, like others in the defense industry, is aware of a
    potential problem presented by strict compliance with the
    Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
    preference for enumerated specialty metals sourced domestically
    or from certain foreign countries. Subcontractors and lower-tier
    suppliers have made disclosures indicating inability to comply
    with the rule as written. Subject to limitations, inability to
    certify that all enumerated specialty metals in a product comply
    with sourcing requirements can lead to U.S. Government
    customers withholding a portion of a payment on delivery or may
    prevent delivery altogether of materiel and products critical to
    national defense.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B