Item 1A.


 



    Organization





    From time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses, and
    realign contracts, programs or business areas among and within
    our operating segments that possess similar customers,
    expertise, and capabilities. Internal realignments are designed
    to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance
    development and delivery of products and services. The operating
    results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect
    these changes made through December 31, 2009.




    
    -1-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    In January 2009, we streamlined our organizational structure by
    reducing the number of operating segments from seven to five.
    The five segments are Aerospace Systems, which combines the
    former Integrated Systems and Space Technology segments;
    Electronic Systems; Information Systems, which combines the
    former Information Technology and Mission Systems segments;
    Shipbuilding; and Technical Services. Creation of the Aerospace
    Systems and Information Systems segments was intended to
    strengthen our alignment with customers, improve our ability to
    execute on programs and win new business, and enhance cost
    competitiveness.


 


    During the first quarter of 2009, we realigned certain
    logistics, services, and technical support programs and
    transferred assets from the Information Systems and Electronic
    Systems segments to the Technical Services segment. This
    realignment was intended to strengthen our core capability in
    aircraft and electronics maintenance, repair and overhaul, life
    cycle optimization, and training and simulation services.


 


    During the first quarter of 2009, we transferred certain optics
    and laser programs from the Information Systems segment to the
    Aerospace Systems segment. The prior year sales and segment
    operating income were not reclassified to reflect this business
    transfer as the operating results of this business were not
    considered material.


 


    In December 2009, we sold our Advisory Services Division (ASD),
    for $1.65 billion in cash to an investor group led by
    General Atlantic LLC and affiliates of Kohlberg Kravis
    Roberts & Co. L.P., and recognized a gain of
    $15 million, net of taxes. ASD was a business unit
    comprised of the assets and liabilities of TASC, Inc., its
    wholly-owned subsidiary TASC Services Corporation, and certain
    contracts carved out from other businesses also in our
    Information Systems segment that provide systems engineering
    technical assistance (SETA) and other analysis and advisory
    services.


 


    In January 2008, we realigned the Newport News and Ship Systems
    businesses into a single operating segment called Northrop
    Grumman Shipbuilding. Previously, these businesses were separate
    operating segments which were aggregated into a single reporting
    segment for financial reporting purposes. In addition, we
    transferred certain Electronic Systems businesses to the former
    Mission Systems segment during the first quarter of 2008.


 


    During the second quarter of 2008, we transferred certain
    programs and assets from the missiles business in the
    Information Systems segment to the Aerospace Systems segment.
    This transfer allowed Information Systems to focus on the
    rapidly growing command, control, communications, computing,
    intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR) business.
    The missiles business became an integrated element of our
    Aerospace business growth strategy.


 



    AEROSPACE
    SYSTEMS


 


    Aerospace Systems, headquartered in Redondo Beach, California,
    is a premier developer, integrator, producer and supporter of
    manned and unmanned aircraft, spacecraft, high-energy laser
    systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems
    critical to maintaining the nation’s security and
    leadership in technology. Aerospace Systems’ customers,
    primarily government agencies, use these systems in many
    different mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and
    reconnaissance; communications; battle management; strike
    operations; electronic warfare; missile defense; earth
    observation; space science; and space exploration. The segment
    consists of four business areas: Strike & Surveillance
    Systems, Space Systems, Battle Management & Engagement
    Systems, and Advanced Programs & Technology.


 


    Strike & Surveillance Systems –
    designs, develops, manufactures and integrates tactical and
    long-range strike aircraft systems, unmanned systems, and
    missile systems. These include the RQ-4 Global Hawk unmanned
    reconnaissance system, B-2 stealth bomber, F-35
    Lightning II joint strike fighter,
    F/A-18 Super
    Hornet strike fighter, Minuteman III Intercontinental
    Ballistic Missile (ICBM), MQ-8B Fire Scout unmanned aircraft
    system, Multi-Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program
    (MP-RTIP), and aerial targets.


 


    Space Systems – designs, develops,
    manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems and
    electronic and communications payloads. Major programs include
    the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental





    
    -2-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Satellite System (NPOESS), the James Webb Space Telescope
    (JWST), Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) payload, Space
    Tracking and Surveillance System (STSS) and many restricted
    programs.


 


    Battle Management & Engagement Systems –
    designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne
    early warning, surveillance, battlefield management, and
    electronic warfare systems. Key programs include the
    E-2 Hawkeye,
    Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS),
    Broad Area Maritime Surveillance (BAMS) unmanned aircraft
    system, the EA-6B Prowler, and its next generation platform, the
    EA-18G Growler.


 


    Advanced Programs & Technology –
    creates advanced technologies and concepts to satisfy
    existing and emerging customer needs. It matures these
    technologies and concepts to create and capture new programs
    that other Aerospace Systems business areas can execute.
    Existing programs include the Navy Unmanned Combat Air System
    (N-UCAS), the Airborne Laser (ABL), and other directed energy
    and advanced concepts programs.


 



    ELECTRONIC
    SYSTEMS


 


    Electronic Systems, headquartered in Linthicum, Maryland, is a
    leading designer, developer, manufacturer and integrator of a
    variety of advanced electronic and maritime systems for national
    security and select non-defense applications. Electronic Systems
    provides systems to U.S. and international customers for
    such applications as airborne surveillance, aircraft fire
    control, precision targeting, electronic warfare, automatic test
    equipment, inertial navigation, integrated avionics, space
    sensing, intelligence processing, air and missile defense,
    communications, mail processing, biochemical detection, ship
    bridge control and radar, ship machinery controls, and shipboard
    components. The segment is composed of seven business areas:
    Aerospace Systems; Defensive Systems; Government Systems; Land
    Forces; Naval & Marine Systems; Navigation Systems;
    and Space & Intelligence, Surveillance &
    Reconnaissance (ISR) Systems.


 


    Aerospace Systems – provides sensors, sensor
    processing, integrated sensor suites, and radar countermeasure
    systems for military surveillance and precision-strike; missile
    tracking and warning; and radio frequency electronic warfare.
    Fire control radars include systems for the F-16, F-22A, F-35,
    and B-1B. Navigation radars include commercial and military
    systems for transport and cargo aircraft. Surveillance products
    include the Airborne Warning and Control System radar, the
    Multi-role Electronically Scanned Array (MESA) radar, the
    MP-RTIP, the ship-board Cobra Judy Replacement radar, and
    multiple payloads on the
    P-8A. Radio
    frequency electronic warfare products include radar warning
    receivers, self-protection jammers, and integrated electronic
    warfare systems for aircraft such as the EA-6B, EA-18, F-16, and
    F-15.


 


    Defensive Systems – provides systems that
    support combat aviation by protecting aircraft and helicopters
    from attack, by providing capabilities for precise targeting and
    tactical surveillance, by improving mission availability through
    automated test systems, and by improving mission skills through
    advanced simulation systems. A wide variety of fixed wing and
    helicopter protection systems include threat detection and
    laser-based countermeasures systems to defeat ground-launched
    infrared-guided missiles. Defensive Systems’
    countermeasures systems are currently installed on over 40 types
    of aircraft, many of which are conducting combat operations in
    Iraq and Afghanistan. Targeting systems utilize lasers for
    target designation and precision weapon delivery, image
    processing, and target acquisition, identification, and
    tracking. The LITENING targeting pod system is combat-proven on
    the AV-8B,
    A-10A/C,
    B-52H, F-15E, F-16, and
    F/A-18A/C/D.
    Test systems include systems to test electronic components of
    combat aircraft on the flight line and in repair facilities.
    Defensive Systems also provides advanced simulators for use on
    test ranges and training facilities to emulate threats of
    potential adversaries. Customers include the
    U.S. government and a wide variety of international allies.


 


    Government Systems – provides products and
    services to meet the needs of governments for improvements in
    the effectiveness of their civil and military infrastructure and
    of their combat and counter-terrorism operations. This includes
    systems and system integration of products and services for
    postal automation, for the detection and alert of chemical,
    biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosive material, and
    for homeland defense, communications, and enterprise management.
    Key programs include: Flats Sequencing System; International
    Sorting Centers;





    
    -3-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    U.S. Postal Service bio-detection systems; and national
    level command and control, integrated air and missile defense
    and homeland defense systems for international customers.


 


    Land Forces – provides a full range of
    warfighting system solutions for the “digital
    battlefield,” including fire control systems for airborne
    and tracked vehicles, air and ground sensors to detect enemy
    movement, tactical range finding and precise laser designation,
    and systems that detect and defend against enemy fire. These
    solutions include laser designators and rangefinders,
    ground-based tactical radars for warning of missile and
    artillery attack, situational awareness sensors, unattended
    sensor systems, ground vehicle communication networks, precision
    guided munitions and compact lightweight Synthetic Aperture
    Radar /Ground Moving Target Indicator (SAR/GMTI) radars for
    unmanned/rotary wing aircraft. Sensor technologies provided
    include radio frequency, infrared, and electro-optical.
    Principal programs include the Longbow Weapons System for the
    Apache attack helicopter, the Lightweight Laser Designator
    Rangefinder, the Vehicular Intercommunication System –
    Extended (VIS-X), the Firefinder counter-battery integrated
    radar system, the Ground/Air Task Oriented Radar System
    (G/ATOR), and the lightweight STARLite SAR/GMTI for unmanned air
    vehicles.


 


    Naval & Marine Systems – provides
    major subsystems and subsystem integration for sensors, sensor
    processing, missile launching, ship controls and power
    generation. It provides systems to military surface and
    subsurface platforms, and bridge and machinery control systems
    for commercial maritime applications. Principal programs
    include: radars for navigation; radars for gun fire control and
    cruise missile defense; bridge management and control systems;
    power generation systems for aircraft carriers; power,
    propulsion, and launch systems for Virginia-class
    submarines; launch systems for Trident submarines; and unmanned
    semi-autonomous naval systems.


 


    Navigation Systems – provides advanced
    navigation, avionics systems, and command and control centers
    for military and commercial applications. Its products are used
    in military air, land, sea, and space systems as well as
    commercial space and aircraft in both U.S. and
    international markets. Its subsidiaries, Northrop Grumman LITEF
    (Freiburg, Germany) and Northrop Grumman Italia (Pomezia,
    Italy), are leading European inertial sensors and systems
    suppliers. Key Navigation Systems programs and applications
    include: integrated avionics for the U.S. Marine Corps
    attack and utility helicopters and U.S. Navy
    E-2
    aircraft; military navigation and positioning systems for the
    F-16 fighter, F-22A fighter/attack aircraft, Eurofighter, and
    U.S. Navy MH-60 helicopter; navigation systems for
    commercial aircraft; navigation systems for military and civil
    space satellites and deep space exploration. Navigation Systems
    also develops and produces fiber-optic acoustic systems for
    underwater surveillance for Virginia-class submarines and
    the AN/TYQ-23 multi-service mobile tactical command centers for
    the U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Air Force.


 


    Space & ISR Systems – provides
    space-based sensor and exploitation systems for civil, military,
    and U.S. intelligence community customers, as well as
    ground/surface based command, control, communications,
    computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
    (C4ISR) solutions to process, exploit, and disseminate
    multi-sensor data. Capabilities include space-based payloads,
    radar, Overhead Non-Imaging Infrared sensors,
    electro-optic & multi/hyper-spectral sensors, passive
    microwave sounders, mission processing solutions, and
    Service-Oriented open architecture C4ISR systems. The current
    portfolio of programs includes the Spaced-Based Infrared System
    as the lead for the payload and mission processing systems, the
    Distributed Common Ground System-Army as the system integrator,
    as well as a variety of civil space and restricted programs.


 



    INFORMATION
    SYSTEMS


 


    Information Systems, headquartered in Reston, Virginia, is a
    leading global provider of advanced solutions for the DoD,
    national intelligence, federal civilian, state and local
    agencies, and commercial customers. Products and services are
    focused on the fields of command, control, communications,
    computers and intelligence; air and missile defense; airborne
    reconnaissance; intelligence processing; decision support
    systems; cybersecurity; information technology; and systems
    engineering and systems integration. The segment consists of
    three business areas: Defense Systems; Intelligence Systems; and
    Civil Systems.




    
    -4-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Defense Systems – is a major end-to-end
    provider of net-enabled Battle Management C4ISR systems,
    decision superiority, and mission-enabling solutions and
    services in support of the national defense and security of our
    nation and its allies. The division is a prime developer and
    integrator of many of DoD’s programs-of-record,
    particularly for command and control and communications for the
    Air Force, the Army, the Navy, and Joint Forces. Major product
    and services include Enterprise Infrastructure and Applications,
    Mission Systems Integration, Military Communications &
    Networks, BMC2 and Decision Support Systems, Global and
    Operational C2, Ground and Maritime Combat Systems, Air and
    Missile Defense, Combat Support Solutions and Services, Defense
    Logistics Automation, and Force and Critical Infrastructure
    Protection. Systems are installed in operational and command
    centers world-wide and across all DoD services and joint command.


 


    Intelligence Systems – is focused on the
    delivery of world-class systems and services to the
    U.S. intelligence community. Major offerings include
    Studies & Analysis, Systems Development, Enterprise
    IT, Prime Systems Integration, Products, Sustainment, and
    Operations and Maintenance. Customer focus addresses several
    mission areas including Airborne ISR, Geospatial Intelligence,
    Ground Systems, Integrated Intelligence and dynamic Cyber
    defense. Sustaining and growing the business in today’s
    market mandates sharing meaningful information across agencies
    through development of cost effective systems that are
    responsive to mutual requirements. Intelligence Systems is also
    creating new responsive capabilities leveraging existing systems
    to provide solutions to customer needs through labs and
    integration centers.


 


    Civil Systems – provides specialized
    information systems and services in support of critical
    government civil missions, such as homeland security, public
    health, cyber security, air traffic management and public
    safety. Primary customers are federal civilian agencies, with
    state and local customers and the U.S. Postal Service also
    being served. Civil Systems develops and implements solutions
    that combine a deep understanding of civil government domains
    with core expertise in prime systems integration, enterprise
    applications development, and high value IT services including
    cyber security, identity management and advanced network
    communications.


 



    SHIPBUILDING


 


    Shipbuilding, headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, is the
    nation’s sole industrial designer, builder, and refueler of
    nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and one of only two companies
    capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for
    the U.S. Navy. Shipbuilding is also one of the
    nation’s leading full service systems providers for the
    design, engineering, construction, and life cycle support of
    major programs for the surface ships of the U.S. Navy,
    U.S. Coast Guard, and international navies. The segment
    includes the following areas of business: Aircraft Carriers;
    Expeditionary Warfare; Surface Combatants; Submarines; Coast
    Guard & Coastal Defense; Fleet Support; and
    Services & Other.


 


    Aircraft Carriers – The U.S. Navy’s
    newest carrier and the last of the Nimitz class, the USS
    George H. W. Bush, was delivered in May 2009. Design work on
    the next generation carrier, the Ford class has been
    underway for over eight years. The Ford class
    incorporates transformational technologies including an enhanced
    flight deck with increased sortie rates, improved weapons
    movement, a redesigned island, a new nuclear power plant design,
    flexibility to incorporate future technologies, and reduced
    manning. In 2008, Shipbuilding was awarded a $5.1 billion
    contract for construction of the first ship of the class, the
    Gerald R. Ford, which is scheduled for delivery in 2015.
    The segment also provides ongoing maintenance for the
    U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet through overhaul,
    refueling, and repair work. In 2009, the completion of the
    refueling and complex overhaul of the USS Carl Vinson was
    followed by the arrival of the USS Theodore Roosevelt,
    which is expected to be redelivered to the U.S. Navy
    following its refueling in early 2013. Shipbuilding is also
    currently performing a multi-year maintenance service of the
    first nuclear-powered carrier, USS Enterprise, with
    redelivery anticipated in early 2010.


 


    Expeditionary Warfare – Shipbuilding is the
    sole provider of amphibious assault ships for the
    U.S. Navy. In 2009, construction of the Wasp class
    multipurpose amphibious assault ship was concluded with the
    delivery of LHD 8. Construction of the San Antonio
    class continues, with five ships delivered from 2005 to 2009
    and four currently in construction. In 2007, Shipbuilding was
    awarded the construction contract for LHA 6, the first in a new
    class





    
    -5-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    of enhanced amphibious assault ships. The first ship of the
    America class ships is currently under construction and
    is expected to join the fleet in 2013.


 


    Surface Combatants – Shipbuilding designs and
    constructs Arleigh Burke class Aegis guided missile
    destroyers, as well as major components for the Zumwalt
    class, a land attack destroyer. Shipbuilding has delivered 26
    Arleigh Burke destroyers to the U.S. Navy, currently
    has two under construction, and was awarded a long lead time
    material contract for a restart of the Arleigh Burke
    class in December 2009. Shipbuilding’s participation in the
    Zumwalt program includes detailed design and construction
    of the ships’ integrated composite deckhouses, as well as
    portions of the ships’ peripheral vertical launch systems.
    The U.S. Navy expects to build three Zumwalt class
    destroyers.


 


    Submarines – Northrop Grumman is one of only
    two U.S. companies capable of designing and building
    nuclear-powered submarines. In February 1997, the company and
    Electric Boat, a wholly owned subsidiary of General Dynamics
    Corporation, reached an agreement to cooperatively build
    Virginia class nuclear attack submarines. The initial
    four submarines in the class were delivered in 2004, 2006, and
    2008. Shipbuilding and Electric Boat were awarded a construction
    contract in August 2003 for the second block of six Virginia
    class submarines, the first two of which were delivered in
    2008 and 2009, respectively. Construction on the remaining four
    submarines is underway, with the last scheduled to be delivered
    in 2014. In December 2008, Shipbuilding and Electric Boat were
    awarded a construction contract for the third block of eight
    Virginia class submarines. The multi-year contract allows
    Shipbuilding and its teammate to proceed with the construction
    of one submarine per year in 2009 and 2010, and two submarines
    per year from 2011 to 2013. The eighth submarine to be procured
    under this contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019.


 


    Coast Guard & Coastal Defense –
    Shipbuilding is a joint venture partner along with Lockheed
    Martin for the Coast Guard’s Deepwater Modernization
    Program. Shipbuilding has design and production responsibility
    for surface ships. In 2006, the Shipbuilding/Lockheed Martin
    joint venture was awarded a
    43-month
    contract extension for the Deepwater program. The first National
    Security Cutter (NSC), USCGC Berthoff, was delivered to
    the Coast Guard in 2008 followed by the Waesche (NSC2) in
    2009. Currently, the Stratton (NSC3) is in construction,
    and long lead procurement is underway for NSC4.


 


    Fleet Support – Fleet Support provides
    after-market services, including on-going maintenance and repair
    work, for a wide array of naval and commercial vessels. The
    segment has ship repair facilities in the U.S. Navy’s
    largest homeports of Norfolk, Virginia, and San Diego,
    California.


 


    Services & Other – Shipbuilding
    provides various services to commercial nuclear and non-nuclear
    industrial customers. In January 2008, Savannah River Nuclear
    Solutions, a joint venture among Shipbuilding, Fluor
    Corporation, and Honeywell, was awarded a contract for site
    management and operations of the U.S. Department of
    Energy’s Savannah River Site in Aiken, South Carolina. In
    October 2008, Shipbuilding announced the formation of a joint
    venture with AREVA NP to build a new manufacturing and
    engineering facility in Newport News, Virginia, to help supply
    the growing American nuclear energy sector.


 



    TECHNICAL
    SERVICES


 


    Technical Services, headquartered in Herndon, Virginia, is a
    leading provider of logistics, infrastructure, and sustainment
    support, while also providing a wide array of technical services
    including training and simulation. The segment consists of three
    areas of business: Systems Support; Training &
    Simulation; and Life Cycle Optimization & Engineering.


 


    Systems Support – provides infrastructure and
    base operations management, including base support and civil
    engineering work, military aerial and ground range operations,
    support functions which include space launch services,
    construction, combat vehicle maintenance, protective and
    emergency services, and range-sensor-instrumentation operations.
    Primary customers include the Department of Energy, the DoD, the
    Department of Homeland Security, and the U.S. intelligence
    community, in both domestic and international locations.




    
    -6-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Training and Simulation – provides realistic
    and comprehensive training to senior military leaders and
    peacekeeping forces, designs and develops future conflict
    training scenarios, and provides U.S. warfighters and
    international allies with live, virtual, and constructive
    training programs. This business area also offers diverse
    training applications ranging from battle command to
    professional military education. Primary customers include the
    DoD, Department of State and Department of Homeland Security.


 


    Life Cycle Optimization and Engineering –
    provides complete life cycle product support and weapons system
    sustainment. This business area is focused on providing
    Performance Based Logistical support to the warfighter including
    supply chain management services, warehousing and inventory
    transportation, field services and mobilization, sustaining
    engineering, maintenance, repair and overhaul supplies, and
    on-going weapon maintenance and technical assistance. The group
    specializes in performing Contractor Logistics Support of both
    original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and third party aviation
    platforms involving maintenance and modification, and rebuilding
    essential parts and assemblies. Primary customers include the
    DoD as well as international military and commercial customers.


 



    Corporate





    Our principal executive offices are located at 1840 Century Park
    East, Los Angeles, California 90067. Our telephone number is
    (310) 553-6262
    and our home page on the Internet is www.northropgrumman.com.
    References to our website in this report are provided as a
    convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as,
    incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or
    available through, the website. Therefore, such information
    should not be considered part of this report. See Properties in
    Part I, Item 2.


 



    SUMMARY
    SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA


 


    For a more complete understanding of our segment financial
    information, see Segment Operating Results in Part II,
    Item 7, and Note 6 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8.


 



    CUSTOMERS
    AND REVENUE CONCENTRATION


 


    Our primary customer is the U.S. Government.
    U.S. Government revenue (which includes Foreign Military
    Sales) accounted for approximately 91 percent of total
    revenues in 2009, 2008, and 2007. No single product or service
    accounted for more than 10 percent of total revenue during
    any period presented. See Risk Factors in Part I,
    Item 1A.


 



    PATENTS


 


    The following table summarizes the number of patents we own or
    have pending as of December 31, 2009:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Owned
    


 


    Pending
    


 


    Total






    U.S. patents



 


 


    3,144


 


 


 


    405


 


 


 


    3,549


 





    Foreign patents



 


 


    2,188


 


 


 


    556


 


 


 


    2,744


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    5,332


 


 


 


    961


 


 


 


    6,293


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Patents developed while under contract with the
    U.S. Government may be subject to use by the
    U.S. Government. We license intellectual property to, and
    from, third parties. We believe our ability to conduct
    operations would not be materially affected by the loss of any
    particular intellectual property right.


 



    SEASONALITY


 


    No material portion of our business is considered to be
    seasonal. Our revenue recognition timing is based on several
    factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence
    of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. See
    Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments- Revenue
    Recognition in Part II, Item 7.




    
    -7-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 




    BACKLOG


 


    At December 31, 2009, total backlog was $69.2 billion
    compared with $76.4 billion at the end of 2008.
    Approximately 37 percent of backlog at December 31,
    2009, is expected to be converted into sales in 2010.


 


    Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for
    which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and
    unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently
    contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog
    excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded indefinite
    delivery indefinite quantity (IDIQ) orders. For multi-year
    services contracts with non-federal government customers having
    no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts
    committed by the customer. For backlog by segment see Backlog in
    Part II, Item 7.


 



    RAW
    MATERIALS


 


    The most significant raw material we require is steel, used
    primarily for shipbuilding. We have mitigated supply risk by
    negotiating long-term agreements with a number of steel
    suppliers. In addition, we have mitigated price risk related to
    steel purchases through certain contractual arrangements with
    the U.S. Government. While we have generally been able to
    obtain key raw materials required in our production processes in
    a timely manner, a significant delay in supply deliveries could
    have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
    position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Risk Factors
    in Part I, Item 1A and Overview- Outlook in
    Part II, Item 7.


 



    GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION


 


    Our businesses are affected by numerous laws and regulations
    relating to the award, administration and performance of
    U.S. Government contracts. See Risk Factors in Part I,
    Item 1A.


 


    The U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate
    our contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for
    convenience or for default based on performance. If any of our
    government contracts were to be terminated for convenience, we
    are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for
    costs incurred and profit on those costs. Termination resulting
    from our default could require us to pay for re-procurement
    costs in excess of the original contract price, net of the value
    of work accepted from the original contract. The
    U.S. Government could also hold us liable for damages
    resulting from the default. In the event that appropriations for
    one of our programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or
    delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be
    terminated or adjusted by the U.S. Government. See Risk
    Factors in Part I, Item 1A.


 


    Certain programs with the U.S. Government that are
    prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in
    detail are referred to as “restricted” in this
    Form 10-K.
    The consolidated financial statements and financial information
    in this
    Form 10-K
    reflect the operating results of restricted programs under
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America (GAAP). See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A.


 



    RESEARCH
    AND DEVELOPMENT


 


    Our research and development activities primarily include
    independent research and development (IR&D) efforts related
    to government programs. IR&D expenses are included in
    general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated
    to U.S. Government contracts. IR&D expenses totaled
    $610 million, $564 million, and $522 million in
    2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We charge expenses for
    research and development sponsored by the customer directly to
    the related contracts.


 



    EMPLOYEE
    RELATIONS


 


    We maintain good relations with our 120,700 employees, of
    which approximately 20 percent are covered by
    32 collective bargaining agreements. We re-negotiated 17 of
    our collective bargaining agreements in 2009. These negotiations
    had no material adverse effect on our results of operations. For
    risks associated with collective bargaining agreements, see Risk
    Factors in Part I, Item 1A.




    
    -8-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 




    ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS


 


    Our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by
    federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations relating
    to the protection of the environment. We provide for the
    estimated cost to complete environmental remediation where we
    determine it is probable that we will incur such costs in the
    future to address environmental impacts at currently or formerly
    owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are
    named a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similarly
    designated by other environmental agencies. These estimates may
    change given the inherent difficulty in estimating environmental
    cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the
    uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup,
    determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of
    laws, regulations, and their interpretations.


 


    We assess the potential impact on our financial statements by
    estimating the possible remediation costs that we could
    reasonably incur on a
    site-by-site
    basis. These estimates consider our environmental
    engineers’ professional judgment and, when necessary, we
    consult with outside environmental specialists. In most
    instances, we can only estimate a range of reasonably possible
    costs. We accrue our best estimate when determinable or the
    minimum amount when no single amount is more probable. We record
    accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting
    period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability
    and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We record insurance
    recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable
    and we do not include any litigation costs related to
    environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual.


 


    We estimate that at December 31, 2009, the range of
    reasonably possible future costs for environmental remediation
    sites is $239 million to $483 million, of which we
    accrued $115 million in other current liabilities and
    $168 million in other long term liabilities in the
    consolidated statements of financial position. We record
    environmental accruals on an undiscounted basis. At sites
    involving multiple parties, we provide environmental accruals
    based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account
    the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. We
    expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate.
    Capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in
    currently operating facilities. We may have to incur costs in
    addition to those already estimated and accrued if other PRPs do
    not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could
    have a material effect on our consolidated financial position,
    results of operations, or cash flows. We have made the
    investments we believe necessary to comply with environmental
    laws. Although we cannot predict whether information gained as
    projects progress will materially affect the estimated accrued
    liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation
    expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash
    flows.


 


    We could be affected by future laws or regulations, including
    those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other
    actions known as “green initiatives.” We recently
    established a goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions
    during the next five years. To comply with current and future
    environmental laws and regulations and to meet this goal, we
    expect to incur capital and operating costs, but at this time we
    do not expect that such costs will have a material adverse
    effect upon our financial position, results of operations or
    cash flows.


 



    COMPETITIVE
    CONDITIONS


 


    We compete with many companies in the U.S. defense industry
    for a number of programs, both large and small, but primarily
    with Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company, Raytheon
    Company, General Dynamics Corporation, L-3 Communications
    Corporation, SAIC, and BAE Systems. Intense competition and long
    operating cycles are both key characteristics of our business
    and the defense industry. It is common in this industry for work
    on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A
    company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate
    award of the contract to another party, turn out to be a
    subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting party. It is
    not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company
    and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of
    such competitor on other contracts. The nature of major defense
    programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies
    that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity
    not common in many industries.




    
    -9-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our
    ability to develop and market our products and services, as well
    as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities,
    equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those
    products and services with maximum efficiency. We must continue
    to maintain sources for raw materials, fabricated parts,
    electronic components, and major subassemblies. In this
    manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective
    oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success
    as managing internal operations.


 


    Similarly, there is intense competition among many companies in
    the information and services markets, which are generally more
    labor intensive with competitive margin rates over contract
    periods of shorter duration. Competitors in the information and
    services markets include the defense industry participants
    mentioned above as well as many other large and small entities
    with expertise in various specialized areas. Our ability to
    successfully compete in the information and services markets
    depends on a number of factors; most important is the capability
    to deploy skilled professionals, many requiring security
    clearances, at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of
    these markets. Accordingly, we have implemented various
    workforce initiatives to ensure our success in attracting,
    developing and retaining sufficient resources to maintain or
    improve our competitive position within these markets.


 



    EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS


 


    See Part III, Item 10, for information about our
    executive officers.


 



    AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION


 


    Throughout this
    Form 10-K,
    we incorporate by reference information from parts of other
    documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (SEC). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by
    referring to it in this manner, and you should review this
    information in addition to the information contained in this
    report.


 


    Our annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and proxy statement for the annual shareholders’ meeting,
    as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free
    of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable
    after we file them with the SEC. You can learn more about us by
    reviewing our SEC filings in the investor relations page on our
    web site at www.northropgrumman.com.


 


    The SEC also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy statements and other information about
    SEC registrants, including Northrop Grumman. You may also obtain
    these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You
    can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
    Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.



 



    Item 1A.
    Risk Factors


 


    Our consolidated financial position, results of operations and
    cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not
    exclusively within our control, that may cause actual
    performance to differ materially from historical or projected
    future performance. We urge you to carefully consider the risk
    factors described below in evaluating the information contained
    in this report.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    We depend heavily on a single customer, the U.S.
    Government, for a substantial portion of our business, including
    programs subject to security classification restrictions on
    information, and changes affecting this customer’s capacity
    to do business with us could have a material adverse effect on
    us or our prospects.





 


    Approximately 92 percent of our revenues during 2009 were
    derived from products and services ultimately sold to the
    U.S. Government (which includes Foreign Military Sales). We
    are a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team
    member, to the U.S. Government and its agencies. These
    contracts are subject to the respective customers’
    political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in
    customers’ short-range and long-range strategic plans, the
    timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract
    scheduling, intense





    
    -10-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    competition, difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when
    bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical
    work, and delays in the timing of contract approval, as well as
    other risks such as contractor suspension or debarment in the
    event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements.


 


    In addition, a material amount of our revenues and profits are
    derived from programs that are subject to security
    classification restrictions (restricted business), which could
    limit our ability to discuss details about these programs, their
    risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. As a
    result, you might have less insight into our restricted business
    than our other businesses or could experience less ability to
    evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with the
    restricted business.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to
    uncertain levels of funding, modification due to changes in
    customer priorities and potential termination.





 


    The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to
    congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes.
    For certain programs, Congress appropriates funds on a fiscal
    year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal
    years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded
    initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress
    makes further appropriations. We cannot predict the extent to
    which total funding
    and/or
    funding for individual programs will be included, increased or
    reduced as part of the 2010 and subsequent budgets ultimately
    approved by Congress or be included in the scope of separate
    supplemental appropriations. The impact, severity and duration
    of the current U.S. economic situation, the sweeping
    economic plans adopted by the U.S. Government, and
    pressures on the federal budget could also adversely affect the
    total funding
    and/or
    funding for individual programs. In the event that
    appropriations for one of our programs becomes unavailable, or
    is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such
    program may be terminated or adjusted by the
    U.S. Government, which could have a material adverse effect
    on our future sales under such program.


 


    We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in
    priorities due to military transformation and planning
    and/or the
    nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or
    replacement programs. A shift of government priorities to
    programs in which we do not participate
    and/or
    reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in
    which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and
    opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations or bid prospects.


 


    In addition, the U.S. Government generally has the ability
    to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior
    notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. In
    the event of termination for the government’s convenience,
    contractors are normally protected by provisions covering
    reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on
    those costs. Termination resulting from our default can expose
    us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our
    ability to compete for contracts.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a
    number of procurement regulations and could be adversely
    affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from
    a U.S. audit or investigation.





 


    U.S. Government contractors must comply with significant
    procurement regulations and other requirements. These
    requirements, although customary in government contracts,
    increase our performance and compliance costs. If procurement
    requirements change, our costs of complying with them could
    increase and reduce our margins.


 


    We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely
    audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its
    agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and
    Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). These agencies review
    our performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our
    compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as
    well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal
    control systems and policies. Systems that are subject to review
    include our purchasing systems, billing systems, property
    management and control systems, cost estimating systems,
    compensation systems and management information systems. Any
    costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract
    will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already
    reimbursed. If an audit





    
    -11-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to
    civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which
    may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits,
    suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or prohibition
    from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition,
    we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of
    impropriety were made against us.


 


    We are also, from time to time, subject to U.S. Government
    investigations relating to our operations and are expected to
    perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws,
    including the Truth in Negotiations Act, the False Claims Act,
    the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under
    the Arms Export Control Act, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act. We may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts,
    contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of
    penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results
    of operations and financial condition, if we are found to have
    violated the law or are indicted or convicted for violations of
    federal laws related to government security regulations,
    employment practices or protection of the environment, or are
    found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law. Such
    convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from
    government contracting for some period of time. Given our
    dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment
    could have a material adverse effect on us.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Competition within our markets and an increase in bid
    protests may reduce our revenues and market share.





 


    We operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may
    have more extensive or more specialized engineering,
    manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some
    areas. We anticipate higher competition in some of our core
    markets as a result of the reduction in budgets for many
    U.S. Government agencies and fewer new program starts. In
    addition, as discussed in more detail above, projected
    U.S. defense spending levels for periods beyond the
    near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. Changes in
    U.S. defense spending may limit certain future market
    opportunities. We are also facing increasing competition in our
    domestic and international markets from foreign and
    multinational firms. Additionally, some customers, including the
    DoD, are more frequently turning to commercial contractors,
    rather than traditional defense contractors, for information
    technology and other support work. If we are unable to continue
    to compete successfully against our current or future
    competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market
    share which could negatively impact our results of operations
    and financial condition.


 


    The competitive environment is also affected by an increase in
    bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards.
    Bid protests could result in the award decision being
    overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. Even where a bid
    protest does not result in a re-bid, the resolution extends the
    time until the contract activity can begin which may reduce our
    earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise
    have commenced.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to
    develop new products and new technologies and maintain a
    qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future
    customers.





 


    The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly
    changing technologies. The product, program and service needs of
    our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our
    success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our
    ability to develop and market our products and services, as well
    as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities,
    equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those
    products and services with maximum efficiency. If we fail to
    maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant
    amount of future business to our competitors, which would have a
    material adverse effect on our ability to generate favorable
    financial results and maintain market share.


 


    Operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to
    attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skills
    and/or
    security clearances. If qualified personnel become scarce, we
    could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in
    order to attract and retain such employees or could experience
    difficulty in performing under our contracts if the needs for
    such employees are unmet.




    
    -12-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Approximately 20 percent of our 120,700 employees are
    covered by an aggregate of 32 collective bargaining agreements.
    We expect to re-negotiate renewals of three of our collective
    bargaining agreements in 2010, and we are continuing to
    negotiate an initial contract for a group of employees.
    Collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to
    five years and are subject to renegotiation at that time. We may
    experience difficulties with renewals and renegotiations of
    existing collective bargaining agreements. If we experience such
    difficulties, we could incur additional expenses and work
    stoppages. Any such expenses or delays could adversely affect
    programs served by employees who are covered by collective
    bargaining agreements. In the recent past we have experienced
    work stoppages and other labor disruptions in Shipbuilding.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Many of our contracts contain performance obligations that
    require innovative design capabilities, are technologically
    complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are
    dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. Failure to
    meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability
    and future prospects.





 


    We design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and
    innovative products and services applied by our customers in a
    variety of environments. Problems and delays in development or
    delivery as a result of issues with respect to design,
    technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve
    assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from
    achieving contractual requirements.


 


    In addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all
    situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems.
    Examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect
    revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft,
    premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair
    or replacement, problems with quality, country of origin,
    delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned
    degradation of product performance. These failures could result,
    either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property.
    Among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be
    unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or
    indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus
    in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work,
    and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the
    government customer of contract cost and fee payments we
    previously received.


 


    Certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems,
    contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in
    the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon
    launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period
    of time. Under such terms, we could be required to forfeit fees
    previously recognized
    and/or
    collected. We have not experienced any material losses in the
    last decade in connection with such contract performance
    incentive provisions. However, if we were to experience launch
    failures or complete satellite system failures in the future,
    such events could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts
    that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due
    from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and the
    potential loss of future business.





 


    Operating income is adversely affected when we incur contract
    costs that cannot be billed to customers. This cost growth can
    occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical
    challenges, manufacturing difficulties or delays, or
    workforce-related issues, or if initial estimates used for
    calculating the contract cost were incorrect. The cost
    estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise.
    Reasons for cost growth may include unavailability or reduced
    productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to
    be performed, the timelines and availability of materials, major
    subcontractor performance and quality of their products, the
    effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of
    funding from the customer, natural disasters and the inability
    to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. A
    significant change in cost estimates on one or more programs
    could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
    financial position or results of operations.


 


    Most of our contracts are firm fixed-price contracts or flexibly
    priced contracts. Flexibly priced contracts include both
    cost-type and fixed-price incentive contracts. Due to their
    nature, firm fixed-price contracts





    
    -13-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    inherently have more risk than flexibly priced contracts.
    Approximately 33 percent of our annual revenues are derived
    from firm fixed-price contracts – see Contracts in
    Part II, Item 7. We typically enter into firm
    fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably estimated
    based on experience. In addition, our contracts contain
    provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. Should
    the terms specified in our contracts not be met, then
    profitability may be reduced. Fixed-price development work
    comprises a small portion of our firm fixed-price contracts and
    inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than
    production contracts and therefore more variability in estimates
    of the costs to complete the development stage. As work
    progresses through the development stage into production, the
    risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract
    are generally reduced. In addition, successful performance of
    firm fixed-price development contracts that include production
    units is subject to our ability to control cost growth in
    meeting production specifications and delivery rates. While
    management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated
    with fixed-price development contracts, future events could
    result in either upward or downward adjustments to those
    estimates. Examples of our significant fixed-price development
    contracts include the F-16 Block 60 combat avionics program
    and the MESA radar system program for the Wedgetail and Peace
    Eagle contracts, both of which are performed by the Electronic
    Systems segment.


 


    Under a fixed-price incentive contract, the allowable costs
    incurred by the contractor are subject to reimbursement, but are
    subject to a cost-share limit which affects profitability.
    Contracts in Shipbuilding are often fixed-price incentive
    contracts for production of a first item without a separate
    development contract. Accordingly, we face the additional
    difficulty of estimating production costs on a product that has
    not yet been designed. Further, Shipbuilding sometimes enters
    into follow-on fixed-price contracts after a significant delay
    from the first production request, and the passage of time makes
    it more difficult for us to accurately estimate costs for
    renewed production.


 


    Under a cost-type contract the allowable costs incurred by the
    contractor are also subject to reimbursement plus a fee that
    represents profit. We enter into cost-type contracts for
    development programs with complex design and technical
    challenges. These cost-type programs typically have award or
    incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned
    over extended periods. In these cases the associated financial
    risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program
    cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues
    arise.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our earnings and margins depend, in part, on our ability
    to perform under contracts and on subcontractor performance as
    well as raw material and component availability and
    pricing.





 


    When agreeing to contractual terms, our management makes
    assumptions and projections about future conditions and events,
    many of which extend over long periods. These projections assess
    the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of
    the work to be performed, the cost and availability of
    materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of
    product deliveries. If there is a significant change in one or
    more of these circumstances or estimates, or if we face
    unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of one or more
    of these contracts may be adversely affected.


 


    We also rely on other companies to provide raw materials and
    major components for our products and rely on subcontractors to
    produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform some of
    the services that we provide to our customers. Disruptions or
    performance problems caused by our subcontractors and vendors
    could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our
    commitments to customers. Our ability to perform our obligations
    as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more
    of the vendors or subcontractors are unable to provide the
    agreed-upon
    products or materials or perform the
    agreed-upon
    services in a timely and cost-effective manner.




    
    -14-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our business is subject to disruption caused by natural
    disasters and other factors that could adversely affect our
    profitability and our overall financial position.





 


    We have significant operations located in regions of the
    U.S. that may be exposed to damaging storms and other
    natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. Although
    preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage
    and disruption resulting from natural disasters may be
    significant. Should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms
    be insufficient to recover all costs, we could experience a
    material adverse effect on our financial position. Our suppliers
    and subcontractors are also subject to natural disasters that
    could affect their ability to deliver or perform under a
    contract. Performance failures by our subcontractors due to
    natural disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform
    our obligations on the prime contract, which could reduce our
    profitability due to damages or other costs that may not be
    fully recoverable from the subcontractor or from the customer
    and could result in a termination of the prime contract and have
    an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts.


 


    Natural disasters can also disrupt electrical and other power
    distribution networks and the critical industrial infrastructure
    needed for normal business operations. These disruptions could
    cause adverse effects on our profitability and performance,
    including computer and internet operation and accessibility.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    We use estimates when accounting for contracts. Changes in
    estimates could affect our profitability and our overall
    financial position.





 


    Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing
    risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making
    assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size
    and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total
    revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to
    many variables. For example, assumptions have to be made
    regarding the length of time to complete the contract because
    costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for
    materials. Similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the
    future impact of our self-imposed efficiency initiatives and
    cost reduction efforts. Incentives, awards or penalties related
    to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue
    and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient
    information to assess anticipated performance.


 


    Because of the significance of the judgment and estimation
    processes described above, it is possible that materially
    different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions
    were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change.
    Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates
    may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial
    reporting and performance. See Critical Accounting Policies,
    Estimates, and Judgments in Part II, Item 7.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our international business is subject to greater risks
    sometimes associated with doing business in foreign
    countries.





 


    Although our international business constitutes only
    5 percent of total revenues, we are subject to numerous
    U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without
    limitation, regulations relating to import-export control,
    technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings,
    exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the
    anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration
    Act. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants
    to comply with these laws and regulations could result in
    administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could, in the
    extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government
    contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could
    have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in regulation or
    political environment may affect our ability to conduct business
    in foreign markets, including investment, procurement and
    repatriation of earnings.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our reputation and our ability to do business may be
    impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or
    business partners.





 


    We have implemented extensive compliance controls, policies and
    procedures to prevent and detect reckless or criminal acts
    committed by employees, agents or business partners that would
    violate the laws of the





    
    -15-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing
    payments to government officials, competition and data privacy.
    However we cannot ensure that we will prevent all such reckless
    or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business
    partners. Any improper actions could subject us to civil or
    criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and
    could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct
    business, our results of operations and our reputation.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our business could be negatively impacted by security
    threats and other disruptions.





 


    As a defense contractor, we face certain security threats,
    including threats to our information technology infrastructure
    and unlawful attempts to gain access to our proprietary or
    classified information. Our information technology networks and
    related systems are critical to the smooth operation of our
    business and essential to our ability to perform day to day
    operations. Loss of security within this critical operational
    infrastructure could disrupt our operations, require significant
    management attention and resources and could have a material
    adverse effect on our performance.


 


    We also manage information technology systems for various
    customers. While we maintain information security policies and
    procedures for managing these systems, we face generally the
    same security threats for these systems as for our own systems.
    Computer viruses, attempts to gain access to our customers’
    data or other electronic security breaches could lead to
    disruptions in mission critical systems for our customers,
    unauthorized release of confidential or personally identifiable
    information and corruption of customer data. These events could
    damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial
    actions we must take, potential liability to customers and
    litigation expenses.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our nuclear operations subject us to various
    environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks.





 


    The development and operation of nuclear-powered aircraft
    carriers, nuclear-powered submarines and other nuclear
    operations subject us to various risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        n   

    
    potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the
    environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations
    and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials;




 



     
        n   

    
    unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation,
    security and repair, including repairs required by the Nuclear
    Regulatory Commission;




 



     
        n   

    
    limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially
    available to cover losses that might arise in connection with
    nuclear operations; and




 



     
        n   

    
    potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether
    or not it is within our control.





 


    The U.S. Government provides indemnity protection against
    specified risks under Public Law
    85-804 and
    the Price-Anderson Nuclear Indemnities Act for certain of our
    nuclear operations risks. Our nuclear operations are subject to
    various safety-related requirements imposed by the
    U.S. Navy, Department of Energy, and Nuclear Regulatory
    Commission. In the event of non-compliance, these agencies may
    increase regulatory oversight, impose fines or shut down our
    operations, depending upon the assessment of the severity of the
    situation. Revised security and safety requirements promulgated
    by these agencies could necessitate substantial capital and
    other expenditures.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Unforeseen environmental costs could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition or results of
    operations.





 


    Our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of
    federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws
    and regulations. In addition, we could be affected by future
    laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to
    climate change concerns and other actions commonly referred to
    as “green initiatives.” Compliance with current and
    future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and
    is expected to continue to require significant capital and
    operating costs, but is not expected to have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition.




    
    -16-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    Environmental laws and regulations can impose substantial fines
    and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the
    installation of costly pollution control equipment or
    operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges
    and/or
    decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance
    releases. In addition, if we were found to be in violation of
    the Federal Clean Air Act or the Clean Water Act, the facility
    or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the
    EPA on the “Excluded Parties List” maintained by the
    General Services Administration. The listing would continue
    until the EPA concluded that the cause of the violation had been
    cured. Listed facilities cannot be used in performing any
    U.S. Government contract while they are listed by the EPA.
    We also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply
    with current federal and state environmental laws and
    regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously
    released into the environment.


 


    The adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement
    of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup
    requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive
    contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our
    ability to recover such costs under previously priced contracts
    or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause
    us to incur costs in the future that would have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition or results of
    operations.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    We are subject to various claims and litigation that could
    ultimately be resolved against us requiring material future cash
    payments and/or future material charges against our operating
    income and materially impairing our financial position.





 


    The size and complexity of our business make it highly
    susceptible to claims and litigation. We are subject to various
    existing environmental claims, income tax matters and other
    litigation, which, if not resolved within established reserves,
    could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
    financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See
    Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3, Critical
    Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments in Part II,
    Item 7 and Note 14 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8. Any claims or
    litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could
    negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the
    public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively
    or obtain adequate insurance in the future.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual
    property rights, which could affect our ability to
    compete.





 


    We own many U.S. and foreign patents and patent
    applications, and we have rights in numerous trademarks and
    copyrights. The U.S. Government has licenses under certain
    of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are
    developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use
    or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual
    property for government purposes. Our patents and other
    intellectual property are subject to challenge, invalidation,
    misappropriation or circumvention by third parties.


 


    We also rely significantly upon proprietary technology,
    information, processes and know-how that are not subject to
    patent protection. We seek to protect this information through
    trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees,
    consultants, subcontractors, or other parties, as well as
    through other security measures. These agreements and security
    measures may not provide meaningful protection for our
    unpatented proprietary information. In the event of an
    infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a
    confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary
    information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain
    our intellectual property. Litigation to determine the scope of
    intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful,
    could be costly and could divert management’s attention
    away from other aspects of our business. In addition, our trade
    secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed
    by competitors.


 


    In some instances, we have augmented our technology base by
    licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. In
    the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on
    commercially reasonable terms.




    
    -17-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of
    our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of
    material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our
    profitability and overall financial position.





 


    We endeavor to identify and obtain in established markets
    insurance agreements to cover significant risks and liabilities
    (including, among others, natural disasters, product liability
    and business interruption). Not every risk or liability can be
    protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of
    coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be
    sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred,
    including for example, a catastrophic earthquake claim. In some,
    but not all, circumstances we may receive indemnification from
    the U.S. Government. Because of the limitations in overall
    available coverage referred to above, we may have to bear
    substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have an
    adverse effect upon our consolidated results of operations and
    our overall consolidated financial position. Additionally,
    disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the
    timing of cash flows and, if litigation with the carrier becomes
    necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material
    adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. For
    example, we commenced legal action against an insurance carrier
    arising out of a disagreement concerning the coverage of certain
    losses related to Hurricane Katrina, and another carrier has
    denied coverage for certain other losses related to Hurricane
    Katrina and advised us that it will seek reimbursement of
    certain amounts previously advanced by that carrier. See
    Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Changes in future business conditions could cause business
    investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired,
    resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would
    reduce our operating income.





 


    As part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time,
    acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. These
    investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence
    procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic
    objective. These procedures often involve certain assumptions
    and judgment in determining acquisition price. Even after
    careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary
    significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounts for
    approximately half of our recorded total assets. We evaluate
    goodwill amounts for impairment annually, or when evidence of
    potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based
    on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a
    significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market
    conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded
    goodwill. Adverse equity market conditions that result in a
    decline in market multiples and our stock price could result in
    an impairment of goodwill
    and/or other
    intangible assets. We continue to monitor the recoverability of
    the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets.
    See Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments in
    Part II, Item 7.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint
    ventures or strategic alliances may not be realized.





 


    As part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time,
    merge with or acquire businesses, or form joint ventures or
    create strategic alliances. Whether we realize the anticipated
    benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the
    integration between the businesses involved, the performance of
    the underlying products, capabilities or technologies and the
    management of the transacted operations. Accordingly, our
    financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated
    performance issues, transaction-related charges, amortization of
    expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of
    long-term assets and partner performance. Although we believe
    that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and
    processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that
    these transactions will be successful.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Market volatility and adverse capital and credit market
    conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective
    sources of funding and expose us to risks associated with the
    financial viability of suppliers and the ability of
    counterparties to perform on financial instruments.





 


    The financial and credit markets recently experienced levels of
    volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit
    for certain issuers. Historically, we have occasionally accessed
    these markets to support certain business activities including,
    acquisitions, capital expansion projects, refinancing existing
    debt and





    
    -18-



Table of Contents



 



    NORTHROP
    GRUMMAN CORPORATION

 



    issuing letters of credit. In the future, we may not be able to
    obtain capital market financing or credit availability on
    similar terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our consolidated financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 


    The tightening of credit could also adversely affect our
    suppliers’ ability to obtain financing. Delays in
    suppliers’ ability to obtain financing, or the
    unavailability of financing could cause us to be unable to meet
    our contract obligations and could adversely affect our results
    of operations. The inability of our suppliers to obtain
    financing could also result in the need for us to transition to
    alternate suppliers, which could result in significant
    incremental cost and delay.


 


    We have executed transactions with counterparties in the
    financial services industry, including brokers and dealers,
    commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional
    parties. These transactions expose us to potential credit risk
    in the event of default of a counterparty. In addition, our
    credit risk may be increased when collateral held by us cannot
    be realized upon a sale or is liquidated at prices not
    sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative
    exposure due to it.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Pension and medical expenses associated with our
    retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending
    upon changes in actuarial assumptions, future market performance
    of plan assets, future trends in health care costs and
    legislative or other regulatory actions.





 


    A substantial portion of our current and retired employee
    population is covered by pension and post-retirement benefit
    plans, the costs of which are dependent upon our various
    assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit
    related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations,
    rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. In
    addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our
    pension and post-retirement benefit plans are subject to
    legislative and other government regulatory actions.


 


    Variances from these estimates could have a material adverse
    effect on our consolidated financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows. For example, the recent volatility in
    the financial markets resulted in lower than expected returns on
    our pension plan assets in 2008, which resulted in higher
    pension costs in 2009. See Note 16 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8.


 




    
    



        n   
    
    Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to
    additional income tax liabilities could affect our
    profitability.





 


    We are subject to income taxes in the United States and many
    foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in
    determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the
    ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and
    calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
    Furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and
    regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or
    lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of
    certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby
    affecting our income tax expense and profitability. The final
    determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be
    materially different from our historical income tax provisions
    and accruals. Additionally, changes in the effective tax rate as
    a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with
    differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall
    profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the
    valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of
    audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by
    taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax
    exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income
    tax expense and profitability.



 



    Item 1B