ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained
or incorporated by reference herein. Realization of any of the following risks could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.


We
are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile.



The oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. Demand for our
services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil
and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of
production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service
companies and the level of workover activity. Drilling and workover activity can fluctuate
significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the United States and Canada. The
willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil
and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment
will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:






     
    •
     
    the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or
OPEC, to maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of
production by non-OPEC countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas;



     

     
    •
     
    level of production from known reserves;



     

     
    •
     
    cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas;



     

     
    •
     
    level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates;



     

     
    •
     
    worldwide economic activity;



     

     
    •
     
    national government political requirements;



     

     
    •
     
    development of alternate energy sources; and



     

     
    •
     
    environmental regulations.





If there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling
contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig
utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the Company will decline.


Volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products.



Oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1990. In general, oil prices approximated $18-22 per
barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have
generally ranged between $25-75 per barrel since 2000. Spot gas prices generally ranged between
$1.80-2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999, then experienced severe spikes into the $10
range in 2001 and 2003. Absent occasional spikes and dips due to imbalances in supply and demand,
prices have generally ranged between $5.00-10.00 per mmbtu during the last two years.


Expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure
levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to
purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. Oil and gas prices, which are
determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which
could reduce demand for our products.


Competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings.



The oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. We compete with national,
regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. These competitors may
have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a
better competitive position. The following competitive actions can each affect our revenues and
earnings:






     
    •
     
    price changes;



     

     
    •
     
    new product and technology introductions; and



     

     
    •
     
    improvements in availability and delivery.





15




Table of Contents



In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some
of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local
nationals in these countries competitive advantages. Competition in our industry could lead to
lower revenues and earnings.


We have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy.



We have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through
acquisitions and investment in internal growth. We anticipate that we will continue to pursue an
aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available
to us at reasonable prices or at all. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully
integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management
will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the Company or operate any new lines of
business. Any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and
their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In
addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all.
Future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased
interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the Company, any
of which could cause our business to suffer.


Our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue.



We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. We cannot assure you
that we will realize expected earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not
fall short of either a prior fiscal quarter or investors’ expectations. The following factors, in
addition to others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future:






     
    •
     
    fluctuations in the oil and gas industry;



     

     
    •
     
    competition;



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to service the debt obligations of the Company;



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices;



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to manage and control operating costs of the Company;



     

     
    •
     
    fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the United States and abroad; and



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to protect our intellectual property rights.





There are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or
economic instability and currency restrictions.


Approximately 55% of our revenues in 2006 were derived from operations outside the United States
(based on revenue destination). Our foreign operations include significant operations in Canada,
Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Southeast Asia, South America and other international markets. Our
revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in
foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or
disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or
the taking of property without fair compensation. Government-owned petroleum companies located in
some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental
policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are
majority-owned by local nationals. As a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures,
license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. In
addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and
government-owned petroleum companies.


Under broad powers granted to the President of Venezuela by the National Assembly on January 31,
2007, the Venezuelan government began asserting closer government control over its oil and gas
reserves. The Company generated revenue of $57.9 million from its Venezuelan operations in 2006,
and as of December 31, 2006 had a net equity investment in Venezuela of $45.3 million. These
political events could adversely affect our operations in Venezuela
(where we have operated for nearly 40 years) and financial results in the future.


The results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange
rates.


We earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other that the
U.S. dollar, including the Canadian dollar, the Euro, the British Pound and the Norwegian Kroner.
Approximately 55% of our 2006 revenue was derived from sales outside the United States. Because
our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues,
income and expenses into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each
reporting period. Thus, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other
currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income.
Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be
offset by strengths in others over time. We also use derivative financial instruments to further
reduce our net exposure


16




Table of Contents





to currency exchange fluctuations. We had forward contracts with a notional amount of $1,477.2
million (with a fair value of $26.3 million) as of December 31, 2006 to reduce the impact of
foreign currency exchange rate movements. We are also subject to risks that the counterparties to
these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign currency contracts. We cannot assure you
that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results.


An
impairment of goodwill could reduce our earnings.



We recorded approximately $2.2 billion of goodwill on the consolidated balance sheet as of December
31, 2006. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value
of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. Generally accepted accounting
principles requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or
circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. If we were to determine that any of
our remaining balance of goodwill was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings
with a corresponding reduction in stockholders’ equity and increase in balance sheet leverage as
measured by debt to total capitalization.


We could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and
local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters
applicable to our businesses.


Our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies
governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. These laws and regulations have
changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. If
existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated
capital and operating expenditures. We cannot assure you that our operations will continue to
comply with future laws and regulations. Governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and
penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to
comply with applicable laws and regulations. Under these circumstances, we might be required to
reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could
adversely impact our operations and financial condition.


Our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability.



Our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which
could result in:






     
    •
     
    personal injury or loss of life;



     

     
    •
     
    severe damage to or destruction of property; or



     

     
    •
     
    environmental damage and suspension of operations.





Our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and
subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other
liabilities. These could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure
obligations. These liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following
theories:






     
    •
     
    negligence;



     

     
    •
     
    strict liability;



     

     
    •
     
    breach of contract with customers; or



     

     
    •
     
    as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course
of business, which is normally the case.





We may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities.



While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. In addition,
certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. We
face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage:






     
    •
     
    we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms;



     

     
    •
     
    we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance;



     

     
    •
     
    our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or



     

     
    •
     
    the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits.





Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.



There are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment.


As of December 31, 2006, we had a backlog of approximately $6 billion of drilling equipment to be
manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our Rig Technology Group. The following factors,
in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our
position in the market and subject us to contractual penalties:







     
    •
     
    our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment;



     

     
    •
     
    our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements;



     

     
    •
     
    our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process;



     

     
    •
     
    our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within
required timeframes;



     

     
    •
     
    unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and



     

     
    •
     
    our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor
shortages or other factors beyond our control.




Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.



17



Table of Contents



GLOSSARY OF OILFIELD TERMS






     
     
     




     

     
    (Sources: Company management; “A Dictionary for the Petroleum
Industry,” The University of Texas at Austin, 2001.)


     
     
     


    API

     
    Abbr: American Petroleum Institute


     
     
     


    Annular Blowout Preventer

     
    A large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers,
that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the
wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself.


     
     
     


    Annulus  

Automatic Pipe Handling 
Systems (Automatic Pipe 
Racker)

     
    The open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass.


A device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert
drill stem components from and into the hole. It replaces the need for
a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out
of the hole.


     
     
     


    Automatic Roughneck

     
    A large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew
members to make up and break out tubulars. The device combines a
spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches.


     
     
     


    Beam pump

     
    Surface pump that raises and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to
operate a downhole pump.


     
     
     


    Bit

     
    The cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. The
bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. The
cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial
diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds (PDCs). These teeth, buttons, or
diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. The
circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes
the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. In
rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of
the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill
collars. Drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm
contact with the bottom of the hole. Most bits used in rotary drilling
are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively.


     
     
     


    Blowout

     
    An uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the
atmosphere. A blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure
exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. A
kick warns of an impending blowout.


     
     
     


    Blowout Preventer (BOP)

     
    Series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent
the escape of pressurized fluids.


     
     
     


    Blowout Preventer (BOP) Stack

     
    The assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools,
valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead.


     
     
     


    Closed Loop Drilling Systems

     
    A solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and
recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself.


     
     
     


    Coiled Tubing

     
    A continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or
thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a real, often dozens of
feet in diameter. The reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing
unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be
safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface.
Because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up
joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and
less expensive than running conventional tubing. Rapid advances in the
use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into
and out of a well. Also called reeled tubing.


     
     
     


    Cuttings

     
    Fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in
the drilling mud. Washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by
geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled.






18




Table of Contents







     
     
     




    Directional Well

     
    Well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access
broader portions of the formation.


     
     
     


    Drawworks

     
    The hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig.
It is essentially a large winch that spools
off or takes in the drilling line and thus
raises or lowers the drill stem and bit.


     
     
     


    Drill Pipe Elevator (Elevator)

     
    On conventional rotary rigs and top-drive
rigs, hinged steel devices with manual
operating handles that crew members latch
onto a tool joint (or a sub). Since the
elevators are directly connected to the
traveling block, or to the integrated
traveling block in the top drive, when the
driller raises or lowers the block or the
top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also
raised or lowered.


     
     
     


    Drilling jars

     
    A percussion tool operated manually or
hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward
blow to free a stuck drill stem.


     
     
     


    Drilling mud

     
    A specially compounded liquid circulated
through the wellbore during rotary drilling
operations.


     
     
     


    Drilling riser

     
    A conduit used in offshore drilling through
which the drill bit and other tools are
passed from the rig on the water’s surface
to the sea floor.


     
     
     


    Drill stem

     
    All members in the assembly used for rotary
drilling from the swivel to the bit,
including the Kelly, the drill pipe and
tool joints, the drill collars, the
stabilizers, and various specialty items.


     
     
     


    Formation

     
    A bed or deposit composed throughout of
substantially the same kind of rock; often
a lithologic unit. Each formation is given
a name, frequently as a result of the study
of the formation outcrop at the surface and
sometimes based on fossils found in the
formation.


     
     
     


    Hardbanding

     
    A special wear-resistant material often
applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive
wear to the area when the pipe is being
rotated downhole.


     
     
     


    Iron roughneck

     
    A floor-mounted combination of a spinning
wrench and a torque wrench. The Iron
Roughneck moves into position hydraulically
and eliminates the manual handling involved
with suspended individual tools.


     
     
     


    Jack-up rig

     
    A mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling
structure with columnar or open-truss legs
that support the deck and hull. When
positioned over the drilling site, the
bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor.


     
     
     


    Jar

     
    A mechanical device placed near the top of
the drill stem which allows the driller to
strike a very heavy blow upward or downward
on stuck pipe.


     
     
     


    Joint

     
    1) In drilling, a single length (from 16
feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5
meters, depending on its range length) of
drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing
that has threaded connections at both ends.
Several joints screwed together constitute
a stand of pipe. 2) In pipelining, a
single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters)
of pipe. 3) In sucker rod pumping, a
single length of sucker rod that has
threaded connections at both ends.


     
     
     


    Kelly

     
    The heavy steel tubular device, four- or
six-sided, suspended from the swivel
through the rotary table and connected to
the top joint of drill pipe to turn the
drill stem as the rotary table returns. It
has a bored passageway that permits fluid
to be circulated into the drill stem and up
the annulus, or vice versa. Kellys
manufactured to API specifications are
available only in four- or six-sided
versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to
16 meters) long, and have diameters as
small as 2 1/2 inches (6
centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15
centimeters).



     
     
     



    Kelly bushing

     
    A special device placed around the kelly
that mates with the kelly flats and fits
into the master bushing of the rotary
table. The kelly bushing is designed so
that the kelly is free to move up or down
through it. The bottom of the bushing may
be shaped to fit the opening in










19




Table of Contents







     
     
     





 

     
     the master
bushing or it may have pins that fit into
the master bushing. In either case, when
the kelly bushing is inserted into the
master bushing and the master bushing is
turned, the kelly bushing also turns. Since
the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the
kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up
to the drill stem, the drill stem turns.
Also called the drive bushing.


     
     
     


    Kelly spinner

     
    A pneumatically operated device mounted on
top of the kelly that, when actuated,
causes the kelly to turn or spin. It is
useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe
attached to it must be spun up, that is,
rotated rapidly for being made up.


     
     
     


    Kick

     
    An entry of water, gas, oil, or other
formation fluid into the wellbore during
drilling. It occurs because the pressure
exerted by the column of drilling fluid is
not great enough to overcome the pressure
exerted by the fluids in the formation
drilled. If prompt action is not taken to
control the kick, or kill the well, a
blowout may occur.


     
     
     


    Making-up

     
    1. To assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to
make up a string of drill pipe). 2. To screw together two
threaded pieces. Compare break out. 3. To mix or prepare (e.g.,
to make up a tank of mud). 4. To compensate for (e.g., to make
up for lost time).


     
     
     


    Manual tongs (Tongs)

     
    The large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe,
casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so
forth, according to the specific use. Power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically
or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some
instances to apply the final makeup torque.


     
     
     


    Master bushing

     
    A device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly
bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the
kelly. Also called rotary bushing.


     
     
     


    Motion compensation 
equipment

     
    Any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain
constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore
drilling rig.


     
     
     


    Mud pump

     
    A large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig.


     
     
     


    Plug gauging

     
    The mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe
comply with API standards.


     
     
     


    Pressure control equipment

     
    1. The act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. The act
of controlling high pressures encountered in a well.


     
     
     


    Pressure pumping

     
    Pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface.


     
     
     


    Ram blowout preventer

     
    A blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or
without pipe. Also called a ram preventer.


     
     
     


    Ring gauging

     
    The mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe
comply with API standards.


     
     
     


    Riser

     
    A pipe through which liquids travel upward.


     
     
     


    Riser pipe

     
    The pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a
seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling
equipment located above the surface of the water. A riser pipe serves as a guide for
the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or
drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. The riser consists of several sections of
pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig
caused by waves. Also called marine riser pipe, riser joint.






20




Table of Contents







     
     
     




    Rotary table

     
    The principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used
to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of
the pipe for rotary drilling. The master bushing fits inside the opening of the
rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the
kelly while the stem is turning.


     
     
     


    Rotating blowout
preventer
 (Rotating Head)

     
    A sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling
with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. A
rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the
annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents
the well from blowing out. It is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have
low permeability. The rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid.


     
     
     


    Safety clamps

     
    A clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary
table by drill collar slips. Should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go
through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar
string from falling into the hole. Also called drill collar clamp.


     
     
     


    Shaker

     
    See “Shale Shaker”


     
     
     


    Shale shaker

     
    A piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings
from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. The size of the openings in
the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100
per cent flow of the fluid. Also called a shaker.


     
     
     


    Slim-hole completions
(Slim-hole Drilling)

     
    Drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter
for a given depth. This decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller
casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion.


     
     
     


    Slips 


     
    Wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping
elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill
collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to
disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit’s drive
shaft. Rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master
bushing to support the pipe. Drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and
wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. Power slips are
pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense
with the manual handling of slips when making a connection.





     
     
     


    
Solids

     
    
See “Cuttings”



     
     
     


    Spinning wrench

     
    Air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making
or breaking connections.


     
     
     


    Spinning-in

     
    The rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to
another. “Spinning-out” refers to separating the pipe.


     
     
     


    Stand

     
    The connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip.
On a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three
lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble.


     
     
     


    String 

Sucker rod 


Tensioner

     
    The entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole.


A special steel pumping rod. Several rods screwed together make up the link
between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well.
  

A system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a
constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the
rig. The guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is
provided for them.


     
     
     


    Thermal desorption

     
    The process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to
drill cuttings.






21




Table of Contents







     
     
     




     
     
     


    Top drive

     
    A device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to
turn the drill stem. It also includes power tongs. Modern top drives combine
the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. Even though the rotary table
assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system
retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when
drilling stops.


     
     
     


    Torque wrench

     
    Spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied
to the connection.


     
     
     


    Trouble cost

     
    Costs incurred as a result or unanticipated complications while drilling a
well. These cost are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning
phase of a well.


     
     
     


    Well completion

     
    1. The activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil
and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or
more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the
surface. 2. The system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath
the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides
the hydrocarbon flow path or paths.


     
     
     


    Well stimulation

     
    Any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as
acidizing or fracturing.


     
     
     


    Well workover

     
    The performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a
producing oilwell to try to increase production oilwell to try to increase
production. Examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and
resetting liners, and squeeze cementing.


     
     
     


    Wellbore

     
    A borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. A wellbore may have casing in it or it
may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open.
Also called a borehole or hole.


     
     
     


    Wireline

     
    A slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that
is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns,
and so forth) into the well. Also called slick line.








ITEM 1B