ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained
or incorporated by reference herein. Realization of any of the following risks could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.



We are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile.



The oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. Demand for our
services and products depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil
and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of
production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service
companies and the level of workover activity. Drilling and workover activity can fluctuate
significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the United States and Canada. The
willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil
and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment
will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:







     
    •
     
    the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to
maintain price stability through voluntary production limits, the level of production by non-OPEC
countries and worldwide demand for oil and gas;



     

     
    •
     
    level of production from known reserves;



     

     
    •
     
    cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas;



     

     
    •
     
    level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates;



     

     
    •
     
    worldwide economic activity;



     

     
    •
     
    national government political requirements;



     

     
    •
     
    development of alternate energy sources; and



     

     
    •
     
    environmental regulations.





If there is a significant reduction in demand for drilling services, in cash flows of drilling
contractors, well servicing companies, or production companies or in drilling or well servicing rig
utilization rates, then demand for the products and services of the Company will decline.



Volatile oil and gas prices affect demand for our products.



Oil and gas prices have been volatile since 1972. In general, oil prices approximated $18-$22 per
barrel from 1991 through 1997, experienced a decline into the low teens in 1998 and 1999, and have
generally ranged between $25-$100 per barrel since 2000. In 2008, oil prices were extremely
volatile — oil prices rose to $147 per barrel in July 2008 only to fall into the $35-$45 per
barrel range in December 2008. In 2009, oil prices continued to be volatile, rising  to the $70 per barrel range during the year. In 2010
oil prices continued rising  to finish the year well above $80 per
barrel. Domestic  spot gas prices generally ranged
between $1.80-$2.60 per mmbtu of gas from 1991 through 1999 then experienced  spikes into the
$10 range in 2001 and 2003.  Prices  generally ranged between $4.50-$12.00 per mmbtu
during 2005-2008. In 2009 and 2010,
spot gas prices  generally stabilized, dropping into the $3 per
mmbtu range during 2009 before rising slightly in 2010 to finish the
year just under $4 per mmbtu.



Expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure
levels of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, particularly with respect to decisions to
purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. Oil and gas prices, which are
determined by the marketplace, may fall below a range that is acceptable to our customers, which
could reduce demand for our products.



18




 






Worldwide financial and credit crisis could have a negative effect on our operating results and
financial condition.



Events in 2008 and 2009 constrained credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis.
The slowdown in worldwide economic activity caused by the global recession reduced demand for
energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. Any prolonged reduction in oil and
natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding
decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating
results and financial condition. Furthermore, many of our customers access the credit markets to
finance their oil and natural gas drilling activity. If the recent crisis and recession reduce the
availability of credit to our customers, they may reduce their drilling and production
expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services. Any such reduction in
spending by our customers could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.



There are risks associated with certain contracts for our drilling equipment.



As of December 31, 2010, we had a backlog of approximately $5.0 billion of drilling equipment to be
manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by our Rig Technology segment. The following factors,
in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely affect our
position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties:







     
    •
     
    our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this drilling equipment;



     

     
    •
     
    our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements;



     

     
    •
     
    our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process;



     

     
    •
     
    our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes;



     

     
    •
     
    unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials; and



     

     
    •
     
    our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors
beyond our control.





The Company’s existing contracts for rig equipment generally carry significant down payment and
progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and do not allow
customers to cancel projects for convenience. However, unfavorable market conditions or financial
difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or
abandonment of projects.



Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial
condition.



Competition in our industry could ultimately lead to lower revenues and earnings.



The oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. We compete with national,
regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. Certain of these
competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us,
and may be in a better competitive position. The following competitive actions can each affect our
revenues and earnings:







     
    •
     
    price changes;



     

     
    •
     
    new product and technology introductions; and



     

     
    •
     
    improvements in availability and delivery.





In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some
of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local
nationals in these countries competitive advantages. Competition in our industry could lead to
lower revenues and earnings.



We have aggressively expanded our businesses and intend to maintain an aggressive growth strategy.



We have aggressively expanded and grown our businesses during the past several years, through
acquisitions and investment in internal growth. We anticipate that we will continue to pursue an
aggressive growth strategy but we cannot assure you that attractive acquisitions will be available
to us at reasonable prices or at all. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully
integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management
will be able to manage effectively the increased size of the Company or operate any new lines of
business. Any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and
their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In
addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing



19




 






on terms acceptable to us or at all. Future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and
amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased
operating income for the Company, any of which could cause our business to suffer.



Our operating results have fluctuated during recent years and these fluctuations may continue.



We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results in the past. We cannot assure that
we will realize earnings growth or that earnings in any particular quarter will not fall short of
either a prior fiscal quarter or investors’ expectations. The following factors, in addition to
others not listed, may affect our quarterly operating results in the future:







     
    •
     
    fluctuations in the oil and gas industry;



     

     
    •
     
    competition;



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to service the debt obligations of the Company;



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to identify strategic acquisitions at reasonable prices;



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to manage and control operating costs of the Company;



     

     
    •
     
    fluctuations in political and economic conditions in the United
States and abroad; and



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to protect our intellectual property rights.





There are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or
economic instability, currency restrictions, and trade and economic sanctions.



Approximately
66% of our revenues in 2010 were derived from operations outside the United States
(based on revenue destination). Our foreign operations include significant operations in Canada,
Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Southeast Asia, Latin America and other international markets. Our
revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in
foreign countries, including uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or
disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or
the taking of property without fair compensation. Government-owned petroleum companies located in
some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies, or are subject to governmental
policies, giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are
majority-owned by local nationals. As a result of these policies, we may rely on joint ventures,
license arrangements and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. In
addition, political considerations may disrupt the commercial relationships between us and
government-owned petroleum companies.



Our operations outside the United States could also expose us to trade and economic sanctions or
other restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations. The U.S.
Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other federal
agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose
against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and other federal statutes. Under trading sanctions laws, the DOJ may seek to impose
modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned
countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. If any
of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and
financial condition.



We have received federal grand jury subpoenas and subsequent inquiries from governmental agencies
requesting records related to our compliance with export trade laws and regulations. We have
cooperated fully with agents from the Department of Justice, the Bureau of Industry and Security,
the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in responding to
the inquiries. We have also cooperated with an informal inquiry from the Securities and Exchange
Commission in connection with the inquiries previously made by the aforementioned federal agencies.
We have conducted our own internal review of this matter. At the conclusion of our internal review
in the fourth quarter of 2009, we identified possible areas of concern and discussed these areas of
concern with the relevant agencies. We are currently negotiating a potential resolution with the
agencies involved related to these matters. We currently anticipate that any administrative fine
or penalty agreed to as part of a resolution would be within established accruals, and would not
have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. To the extent a
resolution is not negotiated as anticipated, we cannot predict the timing or effect that any
resulting government actions may have on our financial position or results of operations.



20




 






The results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange
rates.



We earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the
U.S. dollar, including, but not limited to, the Canadian dollar, the Euro, the British pound sterling, the Norwegian
krone and the South Korean won. Approximately 66% of our 2010 revenue was derived from sales
outside the United States. Because our Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S.
dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect
during or at the end of each reporting period. Thus, increases or decreases in the value of the
U.S. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues
and operating income. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some
currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. We use derivative financial
instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange fluctuations. We had forward
contracts with a notional amount of $1,976 million (with a fair value of $24 million) as of
December 31, 2010 to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We are also
subject to risks that the counterparties to these contracts fail to meet the terms of our foreign
currency contracts. We cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would
not affect our financial results.



An impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings.



The Company has approximately $5.8 billion of goodwill and $0.6 billion of other intangible assets
with indefinite lives as of December 31, 2010. Generally accepted accounting principles require the
Company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual
basis or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. Events
or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a
significant reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant reduction in
profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant
reduction in worldwide well remediation activity; a significant reduction in capital investment by
other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas.
The timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend
on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high
degree of management judgment. If we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of
goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate
charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders’ equity; resulting in an increase
in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization.



See additional discussion on “Goodwill and Other Indefinite — Lived Intangible Assets” in Critical
Accounting Estimates of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.”



We could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and
local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters
applicable to our businesses.



Our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies
governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. These laws and regulations have
changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. If
existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated
capital and operating expenditures. We cannot assure you that our operations will continue to
comply with future laws and regulations. Governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and
penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to
comply with applicable laws and regulations. Under these circumstances, we might be required to
reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could
adversely impact our operations and financial condition.



Our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability.



Our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which
could result in:







     
    •
     
    personal injury or loss of life;



     

     
    •
     
    severe damage to or destruction of property; or



     

     
    •
     
    environmental damage and suspension of operations.




21




 











Our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and
subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other
liabilities. These could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure
obligations. These liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following
theories:







     
    •
     
    negligence;



     

     
    •
     
    strict liability;



     

     
    •
     
    breach of contract with customers; or



     

     
    •
     
    as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our
customers in the normal course of business, which is
normally the case.





We may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities.



While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. In addition,
certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. We
face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage:







     
    •
     
    we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms;



     

     
    •
     
    we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance;



     

     
    •
     
    our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the
policies; or



     

     
    •
     
    the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits.





Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.



The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases
could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products.



Environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the United States and other countries have
been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other
greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. The adoption of laws and regulations
to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could
adversely impact our operations and financial condition. The U.S. Congress is currently working on
legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States, which
includes establishing cap-and-trade programs. In addition to the pending climate legislation, the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has proposed regulations that would require permits for and
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year.
These changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling
activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which
could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.



The Company had revenues of 17% of total revenue from one of its customers for the year ended
December 31, 2010.



The loss
of this customer (Samsung Heavy Industries) or a significant reduction in its purchases could adversely affect our
future revenues and earnings.



The recent moratorium on deepwater drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and its consequences could
have a material adverse effect on our business.



A moratorium on deepwater drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico was enacted during the second quarter
of 2010 following the Macondo well blowout and oil spill. Even though such moratorium has been
 lifted, any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas drilling and production activity as
a result of such moratorium or permitting issues in this area could result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products
and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.



22




 






GLOSSARY OF OILFIELD TERMS






     
     
     





     

     
    (Sources: Company management; “A Dictionary for the Petroleum Industry,” The University of Texas at Austin, 2001.)


     
     
     


    API

     
    Abbr: American Petroleum Institute


     
     
     


    Annular Blowout Preventer

     
    A large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself.


     
     
     


    Annulus

     
    The open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass.


     
     
     


    Automatic Pipe Handling
Systems (Automatic Pipe
Racker)

     
    A device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. It replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole.


     
     
     


    Automatic Roughneck

     
    A large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. The device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches.


     
     
     


    Beam pump

     
    Surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump.


     
     
     


    Bit

     
    The cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. The bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. The cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline
diamonds (“PDCs”). These teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. The circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve
drilling rates. In rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. Drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact
with the bottom of the hole. Most bits used in rotary drilling are roller cone bits, but diamond bits are also used extensively.


     
     
     


    Blowout

     
    An uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. A blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. A kick warns of an impending blowout.


     
     
     


    Blowout Preventer (BOP)

     
    Series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids.


     
     
     


    Blowout Preventer (BOP)
Stack

     
    The assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead.


     
     
     


    Closed Loop Drilling
Systems

     
    A solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself.


     
     
     


    Coiled Tubing

     
    A continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. The reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several
devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. Because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster
and less expensive than running conventional tubing. Rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. Also called reeled tubing.






23




 







     
     
     





    Cuttings

     
    Fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. Washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled.


     
     
     


    Directional Well

     
    Well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation.


     
     
     


    Drawworks

     
    The hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. It is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit.


     
     
     


    Drill Pipe Elevator
(Elevator)

     
    On conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). Since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the
integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered.


     
     
     


    Drilling jars

     
    A percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem.


     
     
     


    Drilling mud

     
    A specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations.


     
     
     


    Drilling riser

     
    A conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water’s surface to the sea floor.


     
     
     


    Drill stem

     
    All members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the Kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items.


     
     
     


    Formation

     
    A bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. Each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on
fossils found in the formation.


     
     
     


    FPSO

     
    A Floating Production, Storage and Offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline.


     
     
     


    Hardbanding

     
    A special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole.


     
     
     


    Hydraulic Fracturing

     
    The process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons.


     
     
     


    Iron Roughneck

     
    A floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. The Iron Roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools.


     
     
     


    Jack-up rig

     
    A mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. When positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor.


     
     
     


    Jar

     
    A mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe.


     
     
     


    Joint

     
    1. In drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. Several joints screwed
together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. In pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. In sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends.






24




 







     
     
     





    Kelly

     
    The heavy steel tubular device, four- or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table returns. It has a bored passageway that
permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. Kellys manufactured to API specifications are available only in four- or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 to 16 meters) long, and
have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters).


     
     
     


    Kelly bushing

     
    A special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. The kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. The bottom of the
bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. In either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly
bushing also turns. Since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. Also called the drive bushing.


     
     
     


    Kelly spinner

     
    A pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. It is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up.


     
     
     


    Kick

     
    An entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. It occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the
formation drilled. If prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur.


     
     
     


    Making-up

     
    1. To assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. To screw together two threaded pieces. Compare break out. 3. To mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. To compensate for
(e.g., to make up for lost time).


     
     
     


    Manual tongs (Tongs)

     
    The large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. Power tongs or power wrenches are
pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque.


     
     
     


    Master bushing

     
    A device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. Also called rotary bushing.


     
     
     


    Motion compensation
equipment

     
    Any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig.


     
     
     


    Mud pump

     
    A large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig.


     
     
     


    Plug gauging

     
    The mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with API standards.


     
     
     


    Pressure control equipment

     
    Equipment used in: 1. The act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. The act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well.


     
     
     


    Pressure pumping

     
    Pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface.


     
     
     


    Ram blowout preventer

     
    A blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. Also called a ram preventer.


     
     
     


    Ring gauging

     
    The mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with API standards.


     
     
     


    Riser

     
    A pipe through which liquids travel upward.






25




 







     
     
     





    Riser pipe

     
    The pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to established a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. A riser pipe
serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor or drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. The riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate
for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. Also called marine riser pipe, riser joint.


     
     
     


    Rotary table

     
    The principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. The master bushing fits inside the
opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning.


     
     
     


    Rotating blowout
preventer (Rotating Head)

     
    A sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. A rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is
pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. It is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. The rate of penetration through
such formations is usually rapid.


     
     
     


    Safety clamps

     
    A clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. Should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill
collar string from falling into the hole. Also called drill collar clamp.


     
     
     


    Shaker

     
    See “Shale Shaker”


     
     
     


    Shale shaker

     
    A piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. The size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size
possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. Also called a shaker.


     
     
     


    Slim-hole completions
(Slim-hole Drilling)

     
    Drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. This decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion.


     
     
     


    Slips

     
    Wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect
the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit’s drive shaft. Rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. Drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the
master bushing to support the drill collar. Power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection.


     
     
     


    Solids

     
    See “Cuttings”


     
     
     


    Spinning wrench

     
    Air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections.


     
     
     


    Spinning-in

     
    The rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. “Spinning-out” refers to separating the pipe.


     
     
     


    Stand

     
    The connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. On a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble.


     
     
     


    String

     
    The entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole.






26




 







     
     
     





    Sucker rod

     
    A special steel pumping rod. Several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well.


     
     
     


    Tensioner

     
    A system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. The guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is
provided for them.


     
     
     


    Thermal desorption

     
    The process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings.


     
     
     


    Tiebacks (Subsea)

     
    A series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point.


     
     
     


    Top drive

     
    A device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. It also includes power tongs. Modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. Even though the rotary table
assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops.


     
     
     


    Torque wrench

     
    Spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection.


     
     
     


    Trouble cost

     
    Costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. These costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well.


     
     
     


    Well completion

     
    1. The activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the
surface. 2. The system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths.


     
     
     


    Wellhead

     
    The termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments.


     
     
     


    Well stimulation

     
    Any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing.


     
     
     


    Well workover

     
    The performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. Examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing.


     
     
     


    Wellbore

     
    A borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. A wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. Also called a borehole or hole.


     
     
     


    Wireline

     
    A slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. Also called slick line.







ITEM 1B