Item 1A —
    Risk Factors Related to NRG Energy, Inc.


 



    Many
    of NRG’s power generation facilities operate, wholly or
    partially, without long-term power sale
    agreements.


 


    Many of NRG’s facilities operate as “merchant”
    facilities without long-term power sales agreements for some or
    all of their generating capacity and output, and therefore are
    exposed to market fluctuations. Without the benefit of long-term
    power sales agreements for these assets, NRG cannot be sure that
    we will be able to sell any or all of the power generated by
    these facilities at commercially attractive rates or that these
    facilities will be able to operate profitably. This could lead
    to future impairments of the Company’s property, plant and
    equipment or to the closing of certain of its facilities,
    resulting in economic losses and liabilities, which could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operations, financial condition or cash flows.


 



    NRG’s
    financial performance may be impacted by changing natural gas
    prices, significant and unpredictable price fluctuations in the
    wholesale power markets and other market factors that are beyond
    the Company’s control.


 


    A significant percentage of the company’s domestic revenues
    are derived from baseload power plants that are fueled by coal.
    In many of the competitive markets where NRG operates, the price
    of power typically is set by marginal cost natural gas-fired
    power plants that currently have substantially higher variable
    costs than NRG’s coal-fired baseload power plants. The
    current pricing and cost environment allows the Company’s
    baseload coal generation assets to earn attractive operating
    margins compared to plants fueled by natural gas. A decrease in
    natural gas prices could result in a corresponding decrease in
    the market price of power but would generally not affect the
    cost of the coal that the plants use. This could significantly
    reduce the operating margins of the Company’s baseload
    generation assets and materially and adversely impact its
    financial performance.


 


    In addition, because changes in power prices in the markets
    where NRG operates are generally correlated with changes in
    natural gas prices, NRG’s hedging portfolio includes
    natural gas derivative instruments to hedge power prices for its
    baseload generation. If this correlation between power prices
    and natural gas prices is not maintained and a change in gas
    prices is not proportionately offset by a change in power
    prices, the Company’s natural gas hedges may not fully
    cover this differential. This could have a materially adverse
    impact on the Company’s cash flow and financial position.


 


    Market prices for power, generation capacity and ancillary
    services tend to fluctuate substantially. Unlike most other
    commodities, electric power can only be stored on a very limited
    basis and generally must be produced concurrently with its use.
    As a result, power prices are subject to significant volatility
    from supply and demand imbalances, especially in the day-ahead
    and spot markets. Long- and short-term power prices may also
    fluctuate substantially due to other factors outside of the
    Company’s control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increases and decreases in generation capacity in the
    Company’s markets, including the addition of new supplies
    of power from existing competitors or new market entrants as a
    result of the development of new generation plants, expansion of
    existing plants or additional transmission capacity;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in power transmission or fuel transportation capacity
    constraints or inefficiencies;



 


     
        • 

    
    electric supply disruptions, including plant outages and
    transmission disruptions;



 


     
        • 

    
    heat rate risk;



 


     
        • 

    
    weather conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in the demand for power or in patterns of power usage,
    including the potential development of demand-side management
    tools and practices;



 


     
        • 

    
    development of new fuels and new technologies for the production
    of power;



 


     
        • 

    
    regulations and actions of the ISOs; and



 


     
        • 

    
    federal and state power market and environmental regulation and
    legislation.






    
    41



Table of Contents



 


    These factors have caused the Company’s operating results
    to fluctuate in the past and will continue to cause them to do
    so in the future.


 



    NRG’s
    costs, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows
    could be adversely impacted by disruption of its fuel
    supplies.


 


    NRG relies on coal, oil and natural gas to fuel a majority of
    its power generation facilities. Delivery of these fuels to the
    facilities is dependent upon the continuing financial viability
    of contractual counterparties as well as upon the infrastructure
    (including rail lines, rail cars, barge facilities, roadways,
    and natural gas pipelines) available to serve each generation
    facility. As a result, the Company is subject to the risks of
    disruptions or curtailments in the production of power at its
    generation facilities if a counterparty fails to perform or if
    there is a disruption in the fuel delivery infrastructure.


 


    NRG has sold forward a substantial portion of its baseload power
    in order to lock in long-term prices that it deemed to be
    favorable at the time it entered into the forward sale
    contracts. In order to hedge its obligations under these forward
    power sales contracts, the Company has entered into long-term
    and short-term contracts for the purchase and delivery of fuel.
    Many of the forward power sales contracts do not allow the
    Company to pass through changes in fuel costs or discharge the
    power sale obligations in the case of a disruption in fuel
    supply due to force majeure events or the default of a fuel
    supplier or transporter. Disruptions in the Company’s fuel
    supplies may therefore require it to find alternative fuel
    sources at higher costs, to find other sources of power to
    deliver to counterparties at a higher cost, or to pay damages to
    counterparties for failure to deliver power as contracted. Any
    such event could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s financial performance.


 


    NRG also buys significant quantities of fuel on a short-term or
    spot market basis. Prices for all of the Company’s fuels
    fluctuate, sometimes rising or falling significantly over a
    relatively short period of time. The price NRG can obtain for
    the sale of energy may not rise at the same rate, or may not
    rise at all, to match a rise in fuel or delivery costs. This may
    have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
    performance. Changes in market prices for natural gas, coal and
    oil may result from the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    weather conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    seasonality;



 


     
        • 

    
    demand for energy commodities and general economic conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    disruption or other constraints or inefficiencies of
    electricity, gas or coal transmission or transportation;



 


     
        • 

    
    additional generating capacity;



 


     
        • 

    
    availability and levels of storage and inventory for fuel stocks;



 


     
        • 

    
    natural gas, crude oil, refined products and coal production
    levels;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in market liquidity;



 


     
        • 

    
    federal, state and foreign governmental regulation and
    legislation; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the creditworthiness and liquidity and willingness of fuel
    suppliers/transporters to do business with the Company.





 


    NRG’s plant operating characteristics and equipment,
    particularly at its coal-fired plants, often dictate the
    specific fuel quality to be combusted. The availability and
    price of specific fuel qualities may vary due to supplier
    financial or operational disruptions, transportation disruptions
    and force majeure. At times, coal of specific quality may not be
    available at any price, or the Company may not be able to
    transport such coal to its facilities on a timely basis. In this
    case, the Company may not be able to run the coal facility even
    if it would be profitable. Operating a coal facility with
    different quality coal can lead to emission or operating
    problems. If the Company had sold forward the power from such a
    coal facility, it could be required to supply or purchase power
    from alternate sources, perhaps at a loss. This could have a
    material adverse impact on the financial results of specific
    plants and on the Company’s results of operations.



    
    42



Table of Contents



 



    There
    may be periods when NRG will not be able to meet its commitments
    under forward sale obligations at a reasonable cost or at
    all.


 


    A substantial portion of the output from NRG’s baseload
    facilities has been sold forward under fixed price power sales
    contracts through 2012, and the Company also sells forward the
    output from its intermediate and peaking facilities when its
    deems it commercially advantageous to do so. Because the
    obligations under most of these agreements are not contingent on
    a unit being available to generate power, NRG is generally
    required to deliver power to the buyer, even in the event of a
    plant outage, fuel supply disruption or a reduction in the
    available capacity of the unit. To the extent that the Company
    does not have sufficient lower cost capacity to meet its
    commitments under its forward sale obligations, the Company
    would be required to supply replacement power either by running
    its other, higher cost power plants or by obtaining power from
    third-party sources at market prices that could substantially
    exceed the contract price. If NRG fails to deliver the
    contracted power, it would be required to pay the difference
    between the market price at the delivery point and the contract
    price, and the amount of such payments could be substantial.


 


    In NRG’s South Central region, NRG has long-term contracts
    with rural cooperatives that require it to serve all of the
    cooperatives’ requirements at prices that generally reflect
    the costs of coal-fired generation. At times, the output from
    NRG’s coal-fired Big Cajun II facility has been and
    will continue to be inadequate to serve these obligations, and
    when that happens the Company has typically purchased power from
    other power producers, often at a loss. NRG’s financial
    returns from its South Central region are likely to deteriorate
    over time as the rural cooperatives grow their customer base,
    unless the Company is able to amend or renegotiate its contracts
    with the cooperatives or add generating capacity.


 



    NRG’s
    trading operations and the use of hedging agreements could
    result in financial losses that negatively impact its results of
    operations.


 


    The Company typically enters into hedging agreements, including
    contracts to purchase or sell commodities at future dates and at
    fixed prices, in order to manage the commodity price risks
    inherent in its power generation operations. These activities,
    although intended to mitigate price volatility, expose the
    Company to other risks. When the Company sells power forward, it
    gives up the opportunity to sell power at higher prices in the
    future, which not only may result in lost opportunity costs but
    also may require the Company to post significant amounts of cash
    collateral or other credit support to its counterparties.
    Further, if the values of the financial contracts change in a
    manner that the Company does not anticipate, or if a
    counterparty fails to perform under a contract, it could harm
    the Company’s business, operating results or financial
    position.


 


    NRG does not typically hedge the entire exposure of its
    operations against commodity price volatility. To the extent it
    does not hedge against commodity price volatility, the
    Company’s results of operations and financial position may
    be improved or diminished based upon movement in commodity
    prices.


 


    NRG may engage in trading activities, including the trading of
    power, fuel and emissions allowances that are not directly
    related to the operation of the Company’s generation
    facilities or the management of related risks. These trading
    activities take place in volatile markets and some of these
    trades could be characterized as speculative. The Company would
    expect to settle these trades financially rather than through
    the production of power or the delivery of fuel. This trading
    activity may expose the Company to the risk of significant
    financial losses which could have a material adverse effect on
    its business and financial condition.


 



    NRG
    may not have sufficient liquidity to hedge market risks
    effectively.


 


    The Company is exposed to market risks through its power
    marketing business, which involves the sale of energy, capacity
    and related products and the purchase and sale of fuel,
    transmission services and emission allowances. These market
    risks include, among other risks, volatility arising from
    location and timing differences that may be associated with
    buying and transporting fuel, converting fuel into energy and
    delivering the energy to a buyer.


 


    NRG undertakes these marketing activities through agreements
    with various counterparties. Many of the Company’s
    agreements with counterparties include provisions that require
    the Company to provide guarantees,



    
    43



Table of Contents




    offset of netting arrangements, letters of credit, a second lien
    on assets
    and/or cash
    collateral to protect the counterparties against the risk of the
    Company’s default or insolvency. The amount of such credit
    support that must be provided typically is based on the
    difference between the price of the commodity in a given
    contract and the market price of the commodity. Significant
    movements in market prices can result in the Company being
    required to provide cash collateral and letters of credit in
    very large amounts. The effectiveness of the Company’s
    strategy may be dependent on the amount of collateral available
    to enter into or maintain these contracts, and liquidity
    requirements may be greater than the Company anticipates or will
    be able to meet. Without a sufficient amount of working capital
    to post as collateral in support of performance guarantees or as
    a cash margin, the Company may not be able to manage price
    volatility effectively or to implement its strategy. An increase
    in the amount of letters of credit or cash collateral required
    to be provided to the Company’s counterparties may
    negatively affect the Company’s liquidity and financial
    condition.


 


    Further, if any of NRG’s facilities experience unplanned
    outages, the Company may be required to procure replacement
    power at spot market prices in order to fulfill contractual
    commitments. Without adequate liquidity to meet margin and
    collateral requirements, the Company may be exposed to
    significant losses, may miss significant opportunities, and may
    have increased exposure to the volatility of spot markets.


 



    The
    accounting for NRG’s hedging activities may increase the
    volatility in the Company’s quarterly and annual financial
    results.


 


    NRG engages in commodity-related marketing and price-risk
    management activities in order to financially hedge its exposure
    to market risk with respect to electricity sales from its
    generation assets, fuel utilized by those assets, and emission
    allowances.


 


    NRG generally attempts to balance its fixed-price physical and
    financial purchases and sales commitments in terms of contract
    volumes and the timing of performance and delivery obligations
    through the use of financial and physical derivative contracts.
    These derivatives are accounted for in accordance with
    SFAS 133, as amended, which requires the Company to record
    all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value with changes
    in the fair value resulting from fluctuations in the underlying
    commodity prices immediately recognized in earnings, unless the
    derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting treatment.
    Whether a derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting
    treatment depends upon it meeting specific criteria used to
    determine if the cash flow hedge is and will remain appropriate
    for the term of the derivative. Economic hedges will not
    necessarily qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment. As
    a result, the Company may be unable to accurately predict the
    impact that its risk management decisions may have on its
    quarterly and annual operating results.


 



    Competition
    in wholesale power markets may have a material adverse effect on
    NRG’s results of operations, cash flows and the market
    value of its assets.


 


    NRG has numerous competitors in all aspects of its business, and
    additional competitors may enter the industry. Because many of
    the Company’s facilities are old, newer plants owned by the
    Company’s competitors are often more efficient than
    NRG’s aging plants, which may put some of these plants at a
    competitive disadvantage to the extent the Company’s
    competitors are able to consume the same or less fuel as the
    Company’s plants consume. Over time, the Company’s
    plants may be squeezed out of their markets, or may be unable to
    compete with these more efficient plants.


 


    In NRG’s power marketing and commercial operations, it
    competes on the basis of its relative skills, financial position
    and access to capital with other providers of electric energy in
    the procurement of fuel and transportation services, and the
    sale of capacity, energy and related products. In order to
    compete successfully, the Company seeks to aggregate fuel
    supplies at competitive prices from different sources and
    locations and to efficiently utilize transportation services
    from third-party pipelines, railways and other fuel transporters
    and transmission services from electric utilities.


 


    Other companies with which NRG competes with may have greater
    liquidity, greater access to credit and other financial
    resources, lower cost structures, more effective risk management
    policies and procedures, greater ability to incur losses,
    longer-standing relationships with customers, greater potential
    for profitability from ancillary services or greater flexibility
    in the timing of their sale of generation capacity and ancillary
    services than NRG does.



    
    44



Table of Contents



 


    NRG’s competitors may be able to respond more quickly to
    new laws or regulations or emerging technologies, or to devote
    greater resources to the construction, expansion or
    refurbishment of their power generation facilities than NRG can.
    In addition, current and potential competitors may make
    strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships
    among themselves or with third parties. Accordingly, it is
    possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new
    competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market
    share. There can be no assurance that NRG will be able to
    compete successfully against current and future competitors, and
    any failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flow.


 



    Operation
    of power generation facilities involves significant risks and
    hazards customary to the power industry that could have a
    material adverse effect on NRG’s revenues and results of
    operations. NRG may not have adequate insurance to cover these
    risks and hazards.


 


    The ongoing operation of NRG’s facilities involves risks
    that include the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes,
    performance below expected levels of output or efficiency and
    the inability to transport the Company’s product to its
    customers in an efficient manner due to a lack of transmission
    capacity. Unplanned outages of generating units, including
    extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or
    other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk
    of the Company’s business. Unplanned outages typically
    increase the Company’s operation and maintenance expenses
    and may reduce the Company’s revenues as a result of
    selling fewer MWh or require NRG to incur significant costs as a
    result of running one of its higher cost units or obtaining
    replacement power from third parties in the open market to
    satisfy the Company’s forward power sales obligations.
    NRG’s inability to operate the Company’s plants
    efficiently, manage capital expenditures and costs, and generate
    earnings and cash flow from the Company’s asset-based
    businesses could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations, financial condition or
    cash flows. While NRG maintains insurance, obtains warranties
    from vendors and obligates contractors to meet certain
    performance levels, the proceeds of such insurance, warranties
    or performance guarantees may not be adequate to cover the
    Company’s lost revenues, increased expenses or liquidated
    damages payments should the Company experience equipment
    breakdown or non-performance by contractors or vendors.


 


    Power generation involves hazardous activities, including
    acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large
    pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to
    transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural
    risks such as earthquake, flood, lightning, hurricane and wind,
    other hazards, such as fire, explosion, structural collapse and
    machinery failure are inherent risks in the Company’s
    operations. These and other hazards can cause significant
    personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and
    destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of,
    or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The
    occurrence of any one of these events may result in NRG being
    named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for
    substantial damages, including for environmental cleanup costs,
    personal injury and property damage and fines
    and/or
    penalties. NRG maintains an amount of insurance protection that
    it considers adequate, but the Company cannot provide any
    assurance that its insurance will be sufficient or effective
    under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities
    to which it may be subject. A successful claim for which the
    Company is not fully insured could hurt its financial results
    and materially harm NRG’s financial condition. Further, due
    to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets,
    NRG cannot provide any assurance that its insurance coverage
    will continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms
    similar to those presently available. Any losses not covered by
    insurance could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.


 



    Maintenance,
    expansion and refurbishment of power generation facilities
    involve significant risks that could result in unplanned power
    outages or reduced output and could have a material adverse
    effect on NRG’s results of operations, cash flow and
    financial condition.


 


    Many of NRG’s facilities are old and require periodic
    upgrading and improvement. Any unexpected failure, including
    failure associated with breakdowns, forced outages or any
    unanticipated capital expenditures could result in reduced
    profitability.


 


    NRG cannot be certain of the level of capital expenditures that
    will be required due to changing environmental and safety laws
    and regulations (including changes in the interpretation or
    enforcement thereof), needed facility



    
    45



Table of Contents




    repairs and unexpected events (such as natural disasters or
    terrorist attacks). The unexpected requirement of large capital
    expenditures could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s liquidity and financial condition.


 


    If NRG makes any major modifications to its power generation
    facilities, the Company may be required to install the best
    available control technology or to achieve the lowest achievable
    emissions rates, as such terms are defined under the new source
    review provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Any such
    modifications would likely result in substantial additional
    capital expenditures.


 



    The
    Company’s Repowering NRG program is subject to financing,
    construction, and operational risks that could adversely impact
    NRG’s financial performance


 


    While NRG currently intends to develop and finance the more
    capital intensive, solid fuel-fired projects included in the
    Repowering NRG program on a non-recourse or limited
    recourse basis through separate project financed entities, and
    intends to seek additional investments in most of these projects
    from third parties, NRG anticipates that it will need to make
    significant equity investments in these projects. NRG may also
    decide to develop and finance some of the projects, such as
    smaller gas-fired and renewable projects, using corporate
    financial resources rather than non-recourse debt, which could
    subject NRG to significant capital expenditure requirements and
    to risks inherent in the development and construction of new
    generation facilities. In addition to providing some or all of
    the equity required to develop and build the proposed projects,
    NRG’s ability to finance these projects on a non-recourse
    basis is contingent upon a number of factors, including the
    terms of the engineering, procurement and construction
    contracts, construction costs, power purchase agreements and
    fuel procurement contracts, capital markets conditions, the
    availability of tax credits and other government incentives for
    certain new technologies. To the extent NRG is not able to
    obtain non-recourse financing for any projects or should the
    credit rating agencies attribute a material amount of the
    project finance debt to NRG’s credit, the financing of the
    Repowering NRG projects could have a negative impact on
    the credit ratings of NRG. In addition, there are risks inherent
    in the development and construction of new generation
    facilities. Further, certain of the Repowerng NRG
    projects incorporate advanced equipment and technologies
    with only a modest amount of operating history in the proposed
    configurations. There also exists the possibility of cost
    overruns, schedule delays and performance risks during the
    construction phase, as well as the possibility of operational
    and contractual issues during the commercial operational life of
    these new generation facilities that could adversely impact
    NRG’s financial performance.


 


    As part of the Repowering NRG program, NRG may also
    choose to undertake the repowering, refurbishment or upgrade of
    current facilities based on the Company’s assessment that
    such activity will provide adequate financial returns. Such
    projects often require several years of development and capital
    expenditures before commencement of commercial operations, and
    key assumptions underpinning a decision to make such an
    investment may prove incorrect, including assumptions regarding
    construction costs, timing, available financing and future fuel
    and power prices. The construction, expansion, modification and
    refurbishment of power generation facilities involve many
    additional risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    delays in obtaining necessary permits and licenses;



 


     
        • 

    
    environmental remediation of soil or groundwater at contaminated
    sites;



 


     
        • 

    
    interruptions to dispatch at the Company’s facilities;



 


     
        • 

    
    supply interruptions;



 


     
        • 

    
    work stoppages;



 


     
        • 

    
    labor disputes;



 


     
        • 

    
    weather interferences;



 


     
        • 

    
    unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems;



 


     
        • 

    
    unanticipated cost overruns; and



 


     
        • 

    
    performance risks.






    
    46



Table of Contents



 


    Any of these risks could cause NRG’s financial returns on
    new investments to be lower than expected, or could cause the
    Company to operate below expected capacity or availability
    levels, which could result in lost revenues, increased expenses,
    higher maintenance costs and penalties.


 



    Supplier
    and/or
    customer concentration at certain of NRG’s facilities may
    expose the Company to significant financial credit or
    performance risks.


 


    NRG often relies on a single contracted supplier or a small
    number of suppliers for the provision of fuel, transportation of
    fuel and other services required for the operation of certain of
    its facilities. If these suppliers cannot perform, the Company
    utilizes the marketplace to provide these services. There can be
    no assurance that the marketplace can provide these services as,
    when and where required.


 


    At times, NRG relies on a single customer or a few customers to
    purchase all or a significant portion of a facility’s
    output, in some cases under long-term agreements that account
    for a substantial percentage of the anticipated revenue from a
    given facility. The Company has also hedged a portion of its
    exposure to power price fluctuations through forward fixed price
    power sales and natural gas price swap agreements.
    Counterparties to these agreements may breach or may be unable
    to perform their obligations. NRG may not be able to enter into
    replacement agreements on terms as favorable as its existing
    agreements, or at all. If the Company was unable to enter into
    replacement PPA’s, the Company would sell its plants’
    power at market prices. If the Company is unable to enter into
    replacement fuel or fuel transportation purchase agreements, NRG
    would seek to purchase the Company’s fuel requirements at
    market prices, exposing the Company to market price volatility
    and the risk that fuel and transportation may not be available
    during certain periods at any price.


 


    The failure of any supplier or customer to fulfill its
    contractual obligations to NRG could have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s financial results. Consequently,
    the financial performance of the Company’s facilities is
    dependent on the credit quality of, and continued performance
    by, suppliers and customers.


 



    NRG
    relies on power transmission facilities that the Company does
    not own or control and that are subject to transmission
    constraints within a number of the Company’s core regions.
    If these facilities fail to provide NRG with adequate
    transmission capacity, the Company may be restricted in its
    ability to deliver wholesale electric power to its customers and
    the Company may either incur additional costs or forego
    revenues. Conversely, improvements to certain transmission
    systems could also reduce revenues.


 


    NRG depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by
    others to deliver the wholesale power it sells from the
    Company’s power generation plants to its customers. If
    transmission is disrupted, or if the transmission capacity
    infrastructure is inadequate, NRG’s ability to sell and
    deliver wholesale power may be adversely impacted. If a
    region’s power transmission infrastructure is inadequate,
    the Company’s recovery of wholesale costs and profits may
    be limited. If restrictive transmission price regulation is
    imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient
    incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure.
    The Company cannot also predict whether transmission facilities
    will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive
    access to those markets.


 


    In addition, in certain of the markets in which NRG operates,
    energy transmission congestion may occur and the Company may be
    deemed responsible for congestion costs if it schedules delivery
    of power between congestion zones during times when congestion
    occurs between the zones. If NRG were liable for such congestion
    costs, the Company’s financial results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    In the California ISO, New York ISO and New England ISO markets,
    the Company has a significant amount of generation located in
    load pockets, making that generation valuable, particularly with
    respect to maintaining the reliability of the transmission grid.
    Expansion of transmission systems to reduce or eliminate these
    load pockets could negatively impact the value or profitability
    of our existing facilities in these areas.


 



    Because
    NRG owns less than a majority of some of its project
    investments, the Company cannot exercise complete control over
    their operations.


 


    NRG has limited control over the operation of some project
    investments and joint ventures because the Company’s
    investments are in projects where it beneficially owns less than
    a majority of the ownership interests.



    
    47



Table of Contents




    NRG seeks to exert a degree of influence with respect to the
    management and operation of projects in which it owns less than
    a majority of the ownership interests by negotiating to obtain
    positions on management committees or to receive certain limited
    governance rights, such as rights to veto significant actions.
    However, the Company may not always succeed in such
    negotiations. NRG may be dependent on its co-venturers to
    operate such projects. The Company’s co-venturers may not
    have the level of experience, technical expertise, human
    resources management and other attributes necessary to operate
    these projects optimally. The approval of co-venturers also may
    be required for NRG to receive distributions of funds from
    projects or to transfer the Company’s interest in projects.


 



    Future
    acquisition activities may have adverse effects.


 


    NRG may seek to acquire additional companies or assets in the
    Company’s industry. The acquisition of power generation
    companies and assets is subject to substantial risks, including
    the failure to identify material problems during due diligence,
    the risk of over-paying for assets and the inability to arrange
    financing for an acquisition as may be required or desired.
    Further, the integration and consolidation of acquisitions
    requires substantial human, financial and other resources and,
    ultimately, the Company’s acquisitions may not be
    successfully integrated. There can be no assurances that any
    future acquisitions will perform as expected or that the returns
    from such acquisitions will support the indebtedness incurred to
    acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them.


 



    NRG’s
    business is subject to substantial governmental regulation and
    may be adversely affected by legislative or regulatory changes,
    as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply
    with, existing or future regulations or
    requirements.


 


    NRG’s business is subject to extensive foreign, and
    U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulation.
    Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory
    regimes may cause the Company to incur significant additional
    costs, and failure to comply with such requirements could result
    in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of
    liens, fines,
    and/or civil
    or criminal liability.


 


    Public utilities under the Federal Power Act, or FPA, are
    required to obtain FERC acceptance of their rate schedules for
    wholesale sales of electricity. All of NRG’s non-qualifying
    facility generating companies and power marketing affiliates in
    the United States make sales of electricity in interstate
    commerce and are public utilities for purposes of the FPA. FERC
    has granted each of NRG’s generating and power marketing
    companies the authority to sell electricity at market-based
    rates. The FERC’s orders that grant NRG’s generating
    and power marketing companies market-based rate authority
    reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if FERC
    subsequently determines that NRG can exercise market power in
    transmission or generation, create barriers to entry, or engage
    in abusive affiliate transactions. In addition, NRG’s
    market-based sales are subject to certain market behavior rules,
    and if any of NRG’s generating and power marketing
    companies were deemed to have violated one of those rules, they
    are subject to potential disgorgement of profits associated with
    the violation
    and/or
    suspension or revocation of their market-based rate authority.
    If NRG’s generating and power marketing companies were to
    lose their market-based rate authority, such companies would be
    required to obtain FERC’s acceptance of a
    cost-of-service
    rate schedule and could become subject to the accounting,
    record-keeping, and reporting requirements that are imposed on
    utilities with cost-based rate schedules. This could have an
    adverse effect on the rates NRG charges for power from its
    facilities.


 


    NRG is also affected by legislative and regulatory changes, as
    well as changes to market design, market rules, tariffs, cost
    allocations, and bidding rules that occur in the existing ISOs.
    The ISOs that oversee most of the wholesale power markets
    impose, and in the future may continue to impose, mitigation,
    including price limitations, offer caps, and other mechanisms to
    address some of the volatility and the potential exercise of
    market power in these markets. These types of price limitations
    and other regulatory mechanisms may have an adverse effect on
    the profitability of NRG’s generation facilities that sell
    energy and capacity into the wholesale power markets.


 


    The regulatory environment applicable to the electric power
    industry has undergone substantial changes over the past several
    years as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state
    and federal levels. These changes are ongoing and the Company
    cannot predict the future design of the wholesale power markets
    or the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment
    will have on NRG’s business. In addition, in some of these
    markets, interested parties have proposed material market design
    changes, including the elimination of a single clearing price



    
    48



Table of Contents




    mechanism, as well as proposals to re-regulate the markets or
    require divestiture by generating companies to reduce their
    market share. Other proposals to re-regulate may be made and
    legislative or other attention to the electric power market
    restructuring process may delay or reverse the deregulation
    process. If competitive restructuring of the electric power
    markets is reversed, discontinued, or delayed, our business
    prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted.


 



    NRG’s
    ownership interest in a nuclear power facility subjects the
    Company to regulations, costs and liabilities uniquely
    associated with these types of facilities.


 


    Under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or AEA,
    operation of STP, of which NRG indirectly own a 44.0% interest,
    is subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission,
    or NRC. Such regulation includes licensing, inspection,
    enforcement, testing, evaluation and modification of all aspects
    of nuclear reactor power plant design and operation,
    environmental and safety performance, technical and financial
    qualifications, decommissioning funding assurance and transfer
    and foreign ownership restrictions. NRG’s 44% share of the
    output of STP represents approximately 1,100 MW of
    generation capacity.


 


    There are unique risks to owning and operating a nuclear power
    facility. These include liabilities related to the handling,
    treatment, storage, disposal, transport, release and use of
    radioactive materials, particularly with respect to spent
    nuclear fuel, and uncertainties regarding the ultimate, and
    potential exposure to, technical and financial risks associated
    with modifying or decommissioning a nuclear facility. The NRC
    could require the shutdown of the plant for safety reasons or
    refuse to permit restart of the unit after unplanned or planned
    outages. New or amended NRC safety and regulatory requirements
    may give rise to additional operation and maintenance costs and
    capital expenditures. STP may be obligated to continue storing
    spent nuclear fuel if the Department of Energy continues to fail
    to meet its contractual obligations to STP made pursuant to the
    U.S. Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 to accept and dispose
    of STP’s spent nuclear fuel. See also
    “Environmental Matters — U.S. Federal
    Environmental Initiatives — Nuclear Waste” in
    Item 1. Costs associated with these risks could be
    substantial and have a material adverse effect on NRG’s
    results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. In
    addition, to the extent that all or a part of STP is required by
    the NRC to permanently or temporarily shut down or modify its
    operations, or is otherwise subject to a forced outage, NRG may
    incur additional costs to the extent it is obligated to provide
    power from more expensive alternative sources — either
    NRG’s own plants, third party generators or the
    ERCOT — to cover the Company’s then existing
    forward sale obligations. Such shutdown or modification could
    also lead to substantial costs related to the storage and
    disposal of radioactive materials and spent nuclear fuel.


 


    NRG and the other owners of STP maintain nuclear property and
    nuclear liability insurance coverage as required by law. The
    Price-Anderson Act, as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 2005,
    requires owners of nuclear power plants in the United States to
    be collectively responsible for retrospective secondary
    insurance premiums for liability to the public arising from
    nuclear incidents resulting in claims in excess of the required
    primary insurance coverage amount of $300 million per
    reactor. The Price-Anderson Act only covers nuclear liability
    associated with any accident in the course of operation of the
    nuclear reactor, transportation of nuclear fuel to the reactor
    site, in the storage of nuclear fuel and waste at the reactor
    site and the transportation of the spent nuclear fuel and
    nuclear waste from the nuclear reactor. All other non-nuclear
    liabilities are not covered. Any substantial retrospective
    premiums imposed under the Price-Anderson Act or losses not
    covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on
    NRG’s financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.


 



    NRG is
    subject to environmental laws and regulations that impose
    extensive and increasingly stringent requirements on the
    Company’s ongoing operations, as well as potentially
    substantial liabilities arising out of environmental
    contamination. These environmental requirements and liabilities
    could adversely impact NRG’s results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows.


 


    NRG’s business is subject to the environmental laws and
    regulations of foreign, federal, state and local authorities.
    The Company must comply with numerous environmental laws and
    regulations and obtain numerous governmental permits and
    approvals to operate our plants. If NRG fails to comply with any
    environmental requirements that apply to its operations, the
    Company could be subject to administrative, civil
    and/or
    criminal liability and fines, and regulatory agencies could take
    other actions seeking to curtail the Company’s operations.
    In addition, when new requirements take effect or when existing
    environmental requirements are revised, reinterpreted



    
    49



Table of Contents




    or subject to changing enforcement policies, NRG’s
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows could be adversely affected.


 


    Environmental laws and regulations have generally become more
    stringent over time, and the Company expects this trend to
    continue. In particular, several states in which NRG operates
    have proposed or are in the process of proposing requirements to
    control emissions of NOx,
    SO2,
    and mercury from electric generating units that are more
    stringent than federal regulations. In Delaware, NRG and others
    have appealed portions of such a regulation for the control of
    multiple pollutants to both the Environmental Appeals Board and
    Delaware Superior Court, based not on the required level of
    emissions reductions, but on the timing for achievement of those
    reductions by 2009. We are unable to predict the outcome of
    these appeals.


 


    There is a growing consensus in the U.S. and globally that
    greenhouse gases, or GHG, emissions are linked to global climate
    change. States in the Northeast under RGGI and California under
    AB32 are expected to propose rules to stabilize and reduce GHG
    in the near future. Increased public concern and mounting
    political pressure may result in more regional
    and/or
    federal requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of GHG.
    NRG’s U.S. generating portfolio includes coal-, oil-
    and gas-fired plants that are projected to emit approximately
    70 million tons of
    CO2,
    a GHG, for 2007. The Company’s facilities in New York and
    California will be subject to regulation under RGGI and AB32,
    respectively. It is likely that the Company’s
    U.S. plants would also be subject to regulation under any
    new GHG legislation introduced at the state, regional or
    national level. While NRG plans to address the risks of such GHG
    regulations through
    CO2
    offsets, by supporting
    CO2
    mitigation research, and by pursuing
    CO2
    sequestration capable facilities, technologies such as nuclear
    and wind that do not emit GHG, and highly efficient fossil fuel
    projects, the costs of complying with potential GHG regulations
    may be substantial and may have a significant impact on
    NRG’s operations, cash flow and financial position. The
    actual impact of any state, regional or federal GHG regulations
    on NRG will depend on a number of factors including whether GHG
    sources in multiple sectors of the economy are regulated, the
    overall GHG emissions cap level, the degree to which GHG offsets
    are allowed, the degree to which the forward market prices on
    the cost of GHG regulation, the allocation of emission
    allowances to specific sources and the indirect impact of carbon
    regulation on natural gas prices.


 


    A recent court ruling on the appeal of the USEPA Phase II
    316(b) regulation has created uncertainty for power plants that
    use once-through cooling water. Specifically, the ruling
    remanded certain provisions back to the USEPA for
    reconsideration and prohibits certain mitigation technologies,
    including restoration. In light of this ruling, NRG anticipates
    that it will not be able to rely on restoration and cost-benefit
    adjustment at some of its facilities in the West region. In
    addition, the ruling has created some uncertainty with respect
    to approximately 17% of the Company’s other generating
    units that do not have cooling towers. NRG continues to complete
    and analyze fish studies and design solutions which will meet
    the Phase II 316(b) regulation when finalized for all of
    its facilities that use once-through cooling. NRG is closely
    following progress on the final rule, although it is not
    possible to quantify the impact of the revisions at this time.


 


    Certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several
    liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where
    hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise released.
    The Company is generally responsible for all liabilities
    associated with the environmental condition of the
    Company’s power generation plants, including any soil or
    groundwater contamination that may be present, regardless of
    when the liabilities arose and whether the liabilities are known
    or unknown, or arose from the activities of predecessors or
    third parties.


 



    NRG’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    adversely impacted by strikes or work stoppages by its unionized
    employees.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, approximately 55% of NRG’s
    employees at its U.S. generation plants would have been
    covered by collective bargaining agreements. In the event that
    the Company’s union employees strike, participate in a work
    stoppage or slowdown or engage in other forms of labor strife or
    disruption, NRG would be responsible for procuring replacement
    labor or the Company could experience reduced power generation
    or outages. NRG’s ability to procure such labor is
    uncertain. Strikes, work stoppages or the inability to negotiate
    future collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms could
    have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business,
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.



    
    50



Table of Contents



 



    Changes
    in technology may impair the value of NRG’s power
    plants.


 


    Research and development activities are ongoing to provide
    alternative and more efficient technologies to produce power,
    including fuel cells, clean coal and coal gasification,
    micro-turbines, photovoltaic (solar) cells and improvements in
    traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient
    gas turbines. Advances in these or other technologies could
    reduce the costs of power production to a level below what the
    Company has currently forecasted, which could adversely affect
    its cash flow, results of operations or competitive position.


 



    Acts
    of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on NRG’s
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    NRG’s generation facilities and the facilities of third
    parties on which they rely may be targets of terrorist
    activities, as well as events occurring in response to or in
    connection with them, that could cause environmental
    repercussions
    and/or
    result in full or partial disruption of the facilities ability
    to generate, transmit, transport or distribute electricity or
    natural gas. Strategic targets, such as energy-related
    facilities, may be at greater risk of future terrorist
    activities than other domestic targets. Any such environmental
    repercussions or disruption could result in a significant
    decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or
    remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flow.


 



    NRG’s
    international investments are subject to additional risks that
    its U.S. investments do not have.


 


    NRG has investments in power projects in Australia, Germany and
    Brazil. International investments are subject to risks and
    uncertainties relating to the political, social and economic
    structures of the countries in which it invests. Risks
    specifically related to our investments in international
    projects may include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in currency valuation;



 


     
        • 

    
    currency inconvertibility;



 


     
        • 

    
    expropriation and confiscatory taxation;



 


     
        • 

    
    restrictions on the repatriation of capital; and



 


     
        • 

    
    approval requirements and governmental policies limiting returns
    to foreign investors.





 



    NRG’s
    level of indebtedness could adversely affect its ability to
    raise additional capital to fund its operations, expose it to
    the risk of increased interest rates and limit its ability to
    react to changes in the economy or its industry.


 


    NRG’s substantial debt could have important consequences,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increasing NRG’s vulnerability to general economic and
    industry conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    requiring a substantial portion of NRG’s cash flow from
    operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and
    interest on its indebtedness, therefore reducing NRG’s
    ability to pay dividends to holders of its preferred or common
    stock or to use its cash flow to fund its operations, capital
    expenditures and future business opportunities;



 


     
        • 

    
    limiting NRG’s ability to enter into long-term power sales
    or fuel purchases which require credit support;



 


     
        • 

    
    exposing NRG to the risk of increased interest rates because
    certain of its borrowings, including borrowings under its new
    senior secured credit facility are at variable rates of interest;



 


     
        • 

    
    limiting NRG’s ability to obtain additional financing for
    working capital including collateral postings, capital
    expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and
    general corporate or other purposes; and



 


     
        • 

    
    limiting NRG’s ability to adjust to changing market
    conditions and placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared
    to its competitors who have less debt.





 


    The indentures for NRG’s notes and senior secured credit
    facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that
    may limit the Company’s ability to engage in activities
    that may be in its long-term best interests.



    
    51



Table of Contents




    NRG’s failure to comply with those covenants could result
    in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could
    result in the acceleration of all of the Company’s
    indebtedness.


 


    In addition, NRG’s ability to arrange financing, either at
    the corporate level or at a non-recourse project-level
    subsidiary, and the costs of such capital, are dependent on
    numerous factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general economic and capital market conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    credit availability from banks and other financial institutions;



 


     
        • 

    
    investor confidence in NRG, its partners and the regional
    wholesale power markets;



 


     
        • 

    
    NRG’s financial performance and the financial performance
    of its subsidiaries;



 


     
        • 

    
    NRG’s level of indebtedness and compliance with covenants
    in debt agreements;



 


     
        • 

    
    maintenance of acceptable credit ratings;



 


     
        • 

    
    cash flow; and



 


     
        • 

    
    provisions of tax and securities laws that may impact raising
    capital.





 


    NRG may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for
    these or other reasons. The failure to obtain additional capital
    from time to time may have a material adverse effect on its
    business and operations.


 



    Because
    the historical financial information may not be representative
    of the results of operation as a combined company or capital
    structure after the Acquisition, and NRG’s and Texas Genco
    LLC’s historical financial information are not comparable
    to their current financial information, you have limited
    financial information on which to evaluate the combined company,
    NRG and Texas Genco LLC.


 


    Texas Genco LLC did not exist prior to July 19, 2004, and
    Texas Genco LLC and its subsidiaries had no operations and no
    material activities until December 15, 2004 when Texas
    Genco LLC acquired its gas- and coal-fired assets. Consequently,
    Texas Genco LLC’s historical financial information is not
    comparable to the Texas region’s current financial
    information.


 


    NRG and Texas Genco LLC had been operating as separate companies
    prior to February 2, 2006. NRG and Texas Genco LLC had no
    prior history as a combined company, nor have they been
    previously managed on a combined basis. The historical financial
    statements may not reflect what the combined company’s
    results of operations, financial position and cash flows would
    have been had both companies operated on a combined basis and
    may not be indicative of what the combined company’s
    results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be
    in the future.


 



    Goodwill
    and/or other
    intangible assets not subject to amortization that NRG has
    recorded in connection with its acquisitions are subject to
    mandatory annual impairment evaluations and as a result, the
    Company could be required to write off some or all of this
    goodwill and other intangible assets, which may adversely affect
    the Company’s financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    In accordance with Financial Accounting Standard No. 142,
    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill is not
    amortized but is reviewed annually or more frequently for
    impairment and other intangibles are also reviewed at least
    annually or more frequently, if certain conditions exist, and
    may be amortized. Any reduction in or impairment of the value of
    goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge
    against earnings which could materially adversely affect
    NRG’s reported results of operations and financial position
    in future periods.



    
    52



Table of Contents





    Cautionary
    Statement Regarding Forward Looking Information


 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of
    the Exchange Act. The words “believes”,
    “projects”, “anticipates”,
    “plans”, “expects”, “intends”,
    “estimates” and similar expressions are intended to
    identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking
    statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
    other factors that may cause NRG Energy, Inc.’s actual
    results, performance and achievements, or industry results, to
    be materially different from any future results, performance or
    achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
    statements. These factors, risks and uncertainties include the
    factors described under Risks Related to NRG in Item 1A of
    NRG’s 2006 Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    General economic conditions, changes in the wholesale power
    markets and fluctuations in the cost of fuel;



 


     
        • 

    
    Hazards customary to the power production industry and power
    generation operations such as fuel and electricity price
    volatility, unusual weather conditions, catastrophic
    weather-related or other damage to facilities, unscheduled
    generation outages, maintenance or repairs, unanticipated
    changes to fuel supply costs or availability due to higher
    demand, shortages, transportation problems or other
    developments, environmental incidents, or electric transmission
    or gas pipeline system constraints and the possibility that NRG
    may not have adequate insurance to cover losses as a result of
    such hazards;



 


     
        • 

    
    The effectiveness of NRG’s risk management policies and
    procedures, and the ability of NRG’s counterparties to
    satisfy their financial commitments;



 


     
        • 

    
    Counterparties’ collateral demands and other factors
    affecting NRG’s liquidity position and financial condition;



 


     
        • 

    
    NRG’s ability to operate its businesses efficiently, manage
    capital expenditures and costs tightly (including general and
    administrative expenses), and generate earnings and cash flows
    from its asset-based businesses in relation to its debt and
    other obligations;



 


     
        • 

    
    NRG’s potential inability to enter into contracts to sell
    power and procure fuel on acceptable terms and prices;



 


     
        • 

    
    The liquidity and competitiveness of wholesale markets for
    energy commodities;



 


     
        • 

    
    Government regulation, including compliance with regulatory
    requirements and changes in market rules, rates, tariffs and
    environmental laws;



 


     
        • 

    
    Price mitigation strategies and other market structures employed
    by independent system operators, or ISO, or regional
    transmission organizations, or RTOs, that result in a failure to
    adequately compensate NRG’s generation units for all of its
    costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    NRG’s ability to borrow additional funds and access capital
    markets, as well as NRG’s substantial indebtedness and the
    possibility that NRG may incur additional indebtedness going
    forward;



 


     
        • 

    
    Operating and financial restrictions placed on NRG contained in
    the indentures governing NRG’s outstanding notes in
    NRG’s senior credit facility and in debt and other
    agreements of certain of NRG subsidiaries and project affiliates
    generally; and



 


     
        • 

    
    NRG’s ability to implement its Repowering NRG
    strategy of developing and building new power generation
    facilities, including new nuclear units and IGCC units.





 


    Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were
    made, and NRG Energy, Inc. undertakes no obligation to publicly
    update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
    result of new information, future events or otherwise. The
    foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG’s actual
    results to differ materially from those contemplated in any
    forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    should not be construed as exhaustive.



    
    53



Table of Contents



 



    Item 1B