Item 1A —
    

    
     Risk
    Factors Related to NRG Energy, Inc.





 



    Many
    of NRG’s power generation facilities operate, wholly or
    partially, without long-term power sale
    agreements.


 


    Many of NRG’s facilities operate as “merchant”
    facilities without long-term power sales agreements for some or
    all of their generating capacity and output, and therefore are
    exposed to market fluctuations. Without the benefit of long-term
    power sales agreements for these assets, NRG cannot be sure that
    it will be able to sell any or all of the power generated by
    these facilities at commercially attractive rates or that these
    facilities will be able to operate profitably. This could lead
    to future impairments of the Company’s property, plant and
    equipment or to the closing of certain of its facilities,
    resulting in economic losses and liabilities, which could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operations, financial condition or cash flows.


 



    NRG’s
    financial performance may be impacted by changing natural gas
    prices, significant and unpredictable price fluctuations in the
    wholesale power markets and other market factors that are beyond
    the Company’s control.


 


    A significant percentage of the Company’s domestic revenues
    are derived from baseload power plants that are fueled by coal.
    In many of the competitive markets where NRG operates, the price
    of power typically is set by natural gas-fired power plants that
    currently have substantially higher variable costs than
    NRG’s coal-fired baseload power plants. This allows the
    Company’s baseload coal generation assets to earn
    attractive operating margins compared to plants fueled by
    natural gas. A decrease in natural gas prices could result in a
    corresponding decrease in





    
    44



 





    the market price of power that could significantly reduce the
    operating margins of the Company’s baseload generation
    assets and materially and adversely impact its financial
    performance.


 


    In addition, because changes in power prices in the markets
    where NRG operates are generally correlated with changes in
    natural gas prices, NRG’s hedging portfolio includes
    natural gas derivative instruments to hedge power prices for its
    baseload generation. If this correlation between power prices
    and natural gas prices is not maintained and a change in gas
    prices is not proportionately offset by a change in power
    prices, the Company’s natural gas hedges may not fully
    cover this differential. This could have a material adverse
    impact on the Company’s cash flow and financial position.


 


    Market prices for power, capacity and ancillary services tend to
    fluctuate substantially. Unlike most other commodities, electric
    power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally
    must be produced concurrently with its use. As a result, power
    prices are subject to significant volatility from supply and
    demand imbalances, especially in the day-ahead and spot markets.
    Long- and short-term power prices may also fluctuate
    substantially due to other factors outside of the Company’s
    control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    changes in generation capacity in the Company’s markets,
    including the addition of new supplies of power from existing
    competitors or new market entrants as a result of the
    development of new generation plants, expansion of existing
    plants or additional transmission capacity;




 



     
        •    

    
    electric supply disruptions, including plant outages and
    transmission disruptions;




 



     
        •    

    
    changes in power transmission infrastructure;




 



     
        •    

    
    fuel transportation capacity constraints;




 



     
        •    

    
    weather conditions;




 



     
        •    

    
    changes in the demand for power or in patterns of power usage,
    including the potential development of demand-side management
    tools and practices;




 



     
        •    

    
    development of new fuels and new technologies for the production
    of power;




 



     
        •    

    
    regulations and actions of the ISOs; and




 



     
        •    

    
    federal and state power market and environmental regulation and
    legislation.





 


    These factors have caused the Company’s operating results
    to fluctuate in the past and will continue to cause them to do
    so in the future.


 



    NRG’s
    costs, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows
    could be adversely impacted by disruption of its fuel
    supplies.


 


    NRG relies on coal, oil and natural gas to fuel a majority of
    its power generation facilities. Delivery of these fuels to the
    facilities is dependent upon the continuing financial viability
    of contractual counterparties as well as upon the infrastructure
    (including rail lines, rail cars, barge facilities, roadways,
    and natural gas pipelines) available to serve each generation
    facility. As a result, the Company is subject to the risks of
    disruptions or curtailments in the production of power at its
    generation facilities if a counterparty fails to perform or if
    there is a disruption in the fuel delivery infrastructure.


 


    NRG has sold forward a substantial portion of its baseload power
    in order to lock in long-term prices that it deemed to be
    favorable at the time it entered into the forward sale
    contracts. In order to hedge its obligations under these forward
    power sales contracts, the Company has entered into long-term
    and short-term contracts for the purchase and delivery of fuel.
    Many of the forward power sales contracts do not allow the
    Company to pass through changes in fuel costs or discharge the
    power sale obligations in the case of a disruption in fuel
    supply due to force majeure events or the default of a fuel
    supplier or transporter. Disruptions in the Company’s fuel
    supplies may therefore require it to find alternative fuel
    sources at higher costs, to find other sources of power to
    deliver to counterparties at a higher cost, or to pay damages to
    counterparties for failure to deliver power as contracted. Any
    such event could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s financial performance.




    
    45



 





    NRG also buys significant quantities of fuel on a short-term or
    spot market basis. Prices for all of the Company’s fuels
    fluctuate, sometimes rising or falling significantly over a
    relatively short period of time. The price NRG can obtain for
    the sale of energy may not rise at the same rate, or may not
    rise at all, to match a rise in fuel or delivery costs. This may
    have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
    performance. Changes in market prices for natural gas, coal and
    oil may result from the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    weather conditions;




 



     
        •    

    
    seasonality;




 



     
        •    

    
    demand for energy commodities and general economic conditions;




 



     
        •    

    
    disruption or other constraints or inefficiencies of
    electricity, gas or coal transmission or transportation;




 



     
        •    

    
    additional generating capacity;




 



     
        •    

    
    availability and levels of storage and inventory for fuel stocks;




 



     
        •    

    
    natural gas, crude oil, refined products and coal production
    levels;




 



     
        •    

    
    changes in market liquidity;




 



     
        •    

    
    federal, state and foreign governmental regulation and
    legislation; and




 



     
        •    

    
    the creditworthiness and liquidity and willingness of fuel
    suppliers/transporters to do business with the Company.





 


    NRG’s plant operating characteristics and equipment,
    particularly at its coal-fired plants, often dictate the
    specific fuel quality to be combusted. The availability and
    price of specific fuel qualities may vary due to supplier
    financial or operational disruptions, transportation disruptions
    and force majeure. At times, coal of specific quality may not be
    available at any price, or the Company may not be able to
    transport such coal to its facilities on a timely basis. In this
    case, the Company may not be able to run the coal facility even
    if it would be profitable. Operating a coal facility with
    different quality coal can lead to emission or operating
    problems. If the Company had sold forward the power from such a
    coal facility, it could be required to supply or purchase power
    from alternate sources, perhaps at a loss. This could have a
    material adverse impact on the financial results of specific
    plants and on the Company’s results of operations.


 



    There
    may be periods when NRG will not be able to meet its commitments
    under forward sale obligations at a reasonable cost or at
    all.


 


    A substantial portion of the output from NRG’s baseload
    facilities has been sold forward under fixed price power sales
    contracts through 2014, and the Company also sells forward the
    output from its intermediate and peaking facilities when it
    deems it commercially advantageous to do so. Because the
    obligations under most of these agreements are not contingent on
    a unit being available to generate power, NRG is generally
    required to deliver power to the buyer, even in the event of a
    plant outage, fuel supply disruption or a reduction in the
    available capacity of the unit. To the extent that the Company
    does not have sufficient lower cost capacity to meet its
    commitments under its forward sale obligations, the Company
    would be required to supply replacement power either by running
    its other, higher cost power plants or by obtaining power from
    third-party sources at market prices that could substantially
    exceed the contract price. If NRG fails to deliver the
    contracted power, it would be required to pay the difference
    between the market price at the delivery point and the contract
    price, and the amount of such payments could be substantial.


 


    In the South Central region, NRG has long-term contracts with
    rural cooperatives that require it to serve all of the
    cooperatives’ requirements at prices that generally reflect
    the costs of coal-fired generation. During limited peak demand
    periods, the load requirements of these contract customers
    exceed the baseload capacity of NRG’s coal-fired Big
    Cajun II plant. During such peak demand periods, NRG either
    employs its owned or leased gas-fired assets or purchases power
    from external sources and, depending upon the then-current gas
    commodity pricing, these purchases can be at higher prices than
    can be recovered under the Company’s contracts. NRG’s
    financial returns from its South Central region could be
    negatively impacted for a limited period if the rural
    cooperatives





    
    46



 





    significantly grow their customer base during the remaining
    terms of these contracts prior to the expiration of half of the
    cooperative contracts in 2014. In addition, NRG has other
    obligations to supply power to load serving entities and, at
    times, NRG’s load obligations may exceed its available
    generation and long-term purchases thus requiring the Company to
    purchase energy at market prices.


 



    NRG’s
    trading operations and the use of hedging agreements could
    result in financial losses that negatively impact its results of
    operations.


 


    The Company typically enters into hedging agreements, including
    contracts to purchase or sell commodities at future dates and at
    fixed prices, in order to manage the commodity price risks
    inherent in its power generation operations. These activities,
    although intended to mitigate price volatility, expose the
    Company to other risks. When the Company sells power forward, it
    gives up the opportunity to sell power at higher prices in the
    future, which not only may result in lost opportunity costs but
    also may require the Company to post significant amounts of cash
    collateral or other credit support to its counterparties. The
    Company also relies on counterparty performance under its
    hedging agreements and is exposed to the credit quality of its
    counterparties under those agreements. Further, if the values of
    the financial contracts change in a manner that the Company does
    not anticipate, or if a counterparty fails to perform under a
    contract, it could harm the Company’s business, operating
    results or financial position.


 


    NRG does not typically hedge the entire exposure of its
    operations against commodity price volatility. To the extent it
    does not hedge against commodity price volatility, the
    Company’s results of operations and financial position may
    be improved or diminished based upon movement in commodity
    prices.


 


    NRG may engage in trading activities, including the trading of
    power, fuel and emissions allowances that are not directly
    related to the operation of the Company’s generation
    facilities or the management of related risks. These trading
    activities take place in volatile markets and some of these
    trades could be characterized as speculative. The Company would
    expect to settle these trades financially rather than through
    the production of power or the delivery of fuel. This trading
    activity may expose the Company to the risk of significant
    financial losses which could have a material adverse effect on
    its business and financial condition.


 



    NRG
    may not have sufficient liquidity to hedge market risks
    effectively.


 


    The Company is exposed to market risks through its power
    marketing business, which involves the sale of energy, capacity
    and related products and the purchase and sale of fuel,
    transmission services and emission allowances. These market
    risks include, among other risks, volatility arising from
    location and timing differences that may be associated with
    buying and transporting fuel, converting fuel into energy and
    delivering the energy to a buyer.


 


    NRG undertakes these marketing activities through agreements
    with various counterparties. Many of the Company’s
    agreements with counterparties include provisions that require
    the Company to provide guarantees, offset of netting
    arrangements, letters of credit, a first or second lien on
    assets
    and/or cash
    collateral to protect the counterparties against the risk of the
    Company’s default or insolvency. The amount of such credit
    support that must be provided typically is based on the
    difference between the price of the commodity in a given
    contract and the market price of the commodity. Significant
    movements in market prices can result in the Company being
    required to provide cash collateral and letters of credit in
    very large amounts. The effectiveness of the Company’s
    strategy may be dependent on the amount of collateral available
    to enter into or maintain these contracts, and liquidity
    requirements may be greater than the Company anticipates or will
    be able to meet. Without a sufficient amount of working capital
    to post as collateral in support of performance guarantees or as
    a cash margin, the Company may not be able to manage price
    volatility effectively or to implement its strategy. An increase
    in the amount of letters of credit or cash collateral required
    to be provided to the Company’s counterparties may
    negatively affect the Company’s liquidity and financial
    condition.


 


    Further, if any of NRG’s facilities experience unplanned
    outages, the Company may be required to procure replacement
    power at spot market prices in order to fulfill contractual
    commitments. Without adequate liquidity to meet margin and
    collateral requirements, the Company may be exposed to
    significant losses, may miss significant opportunities, and may
    have increased exposure to the volatility of spot markets.




    
    47



 






    The
    accounting for NRG’s hedging activities may increase the
    volatility in the Company’s quarterly and annual financial
    results.


 


    NRG engages in commodity-related marketing and price-risk
    management activities in order to financially hedge its exposure
    to market risk with respect to electricity sales from its
    generation assets, fuel utilized by those assets and emission
    allowances.


 


    NRG generally attempts to balance its fixed-price physical and
    financial purchases and sales commitments in terms of contract
    volumes and the timing of performance and delivery obligations
    through the use of financial and physical derivative contracts.
    These derivatives are accounted for in accordance with ASC-815,
    Derivatives and Hedging, or ASC 815, which requires the
    Company to record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair
    value with changes in the fair value resulting from fluctuations
    in the underlying commodity prices immediately recognized in
    earnings, unless the derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge
    accounting treatment. Whether a derivative qualifies for cash
    flow hedge accounting treatment depends upon it meeting specific
    criteria used to determine if the cash flow hedge is and will
    remain appropriate for the term of the derivative. All economic
    hedges may not necessarily qualify for cash flow hedge
    accounting treatment. As a result, the Company’s quarterly
    and annual results are subject to significant fluctuations
    caused by changes in market prices.


 



    Competition
    in wholesale power markets may have a material adverse effect on
    NRG’s results of operations, cash flows and the market
    value of its assets.


 


    NRG has numerous competitors in all aspects of its business, and
    additional competitors may enter the industry. Because many of
    the Company’s facilities are old, newer plants owned by the
    Company’s competitors are often more efficient than
    NRG’s aging plants, which may put some of these plants at a
    competitive disadvantage to the extent the Company’s
    competitors are able to consume the same or less fuel as the
    Company’s plants consume. Over time, the Company’s
    plants may be squeezed out of their markets, or may be unable to
    compete with these more efficient plants.


 


    In NRG’s power marketing and commercial operations, it
    competes on the basis of its relative skills, financial position
    and access to capital with other providers of electric energy in
    the procurement of fuel and transportation services, and the
    sale of capacity, energy and related products. In order to
    compete successfully, the Company seeks to aggregate fuel
    supplies at competitive prices from different sources and
    locations and to efficiently utilize transportation services
    from third-party pipelines, railways and other fuel transporters
    and transmission services from electric utilities.


 


    Other companies with which NRG competes with may have greater
    liquidity, greater access to credit and other financial
    resources, lower cost structures, more effective risk management
    policies and procedures, greater ability to incur losses,
    longer-standing relationships with customers, greater potential
    for profitability from ancillary services or greater flexibility
    in the timing of their sale of generation capacity and ancillary
    services than NRG does.


 


    NRG’s competitors may be able to respond more quickly to
    new laws or regulations or emerging technologies, or to devote
    greater resources to the construction, expansion or
    refurbishment of their power generation facilities than NRG can.
    In addition, current and potential competitors may make
    strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships
    among themselves or with third parties. Accordingly, it is
    possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new
    competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market
    share. There can be no assurance that NRG will be able to
    compete successfully against current and future competitors, and
    any failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flow.


 



    Operation
    of power generation facilities involves significant risks and
    hazards customary to the power industry that could have a
    material adverse effect on NRG’s revenues and results of
    operations. NRG may not have adequate insurance to cover these
    risks and hazards.


 


    The ongoing operation of NRG’s facilities involves risks
    that include the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes,
    performance below expected levels of output or efficiency and
    the inability to transport the Company’s product to its
    customers in an efficient manner due to a lack of transmission
    capacity. Unplanned outages of





    
    48



 





    generating units, including extensions of scheduled outages due
    to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time
    and are an inherent risk of the Company’s business.
    Unplanned outages typically increase the Company’s
    operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce the
    Company’s revenues as a result of selling fewer MWh or
    require NRG to incur significant costs as a result of running
    one of its higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from
    third parties in the open market to satisfy the Company’s
    forward power sales obligations. NRG’s inability to operate
    the Company’s plants efficiently, manage capital
    expenditures and costs, and generate earnings and cash flow from
    the Company’s asset-based businesses could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations,
    financial condition or cash flows. While NRG maintains
    insurance, obtains warranties from vendors and obligates
    contractors to meet certain performance levels, the proceeds of
    such insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not be
    adequate to cover the Company’s lost revenues, increased
    expenses or liquidated damages payments should the Company
    experience equipment breakdown or non-performance by contractors
    or vendors.


 


    Power generation involves hazardous activities, including
    acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large
    pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to
    transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural
    risks such as earthquake, flood, lightning, hurricane and wind,
    other hazards, such as fire, explosion, structural collapse and
    machinery failure are inherent risks in the Company’s
    operations. These and other hazards can cause significant
    personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and
    destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of,
    or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The
    occurrence of any one of these events may result in NRG being
    named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for
    substantial damages, including for environmental cleanup costs,
    personal injury and property damage and fines
    and/or
    penalties. NRG maintains an amount of insurance protection that
    it considers adequate, but the Company cannot provide any
    assurance that its insurance will be sufficient or effective
    under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities
    to which it may be subject. A successful claim for which the
    Company is not fully insured could hurt its financial results
    and materially harm NRG’s financial condition. Further, due
    to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets,
    NRG cannot provide any assurance that its insurance coverage
    will continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms
    similar to those presently available. Any losses not covered by
    insurance could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.


 



    Maintenance,
    expansion and refurbishment of power generation facilities
    involve significant risks that could result in unplanned power
    outages or reduced output and could have a material adverse
    effect on NRG’s results of operations, cash flow and
    financial condition.


 


    Many of NRG’s facilities are old and require periodic
    upgrading and improvement. Any unexpected failure, including
    failure associated with breakdowns, forced outages or any
    unanticipated capital expenditures could result in reduced
    profitability.


 


    NRG cannot be certain of the level of capital expenditures that
    will be required due to changing environmental and safety laws
    and regulations (including changes in the interpretation or
    enforcement thereof), needed facility repairs and unexpected
    events (such as natural disasters or terrorist attacks). The
    unexpected requirement of large capital expenditures could have
    a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and
    financial condition.


 


    If NRG makes any major modifications to its power generation
    facilities, the Company may be required to install the best
    available control technology or to achieve the lowest achievable
    emission rates as such terms are defined under the new source
    review provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Any such
    modifications would likely result in substantial additional
    capital expenditures.


 



    The
    Company may incur additional costs or delays in the development,
    construction and operation of new plants, improvements to
    existing plants, or the implementation of environmental control
    equipment at existing plants and may not be able to recover
    their investment or complete the project.


 


    The Company is in the process of developing or constructing new
    generation facilities, improving its existing facilities and
    adding environmental controls to its existing facilities. The
    development, construction, expansion, modification and
    refurbishment of power generation facilities involve many
    additional risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    delays in obtaining necessary permits and licenses;







    
    49



 




 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    environmental remediation of soil or groundwater at contaminated
    sites;




 



     
        •    

    
    interruptions to dispatch at the Company’s facilities;




 



     
        •    

    
    supply interruptions;




 



     
        •    

    
    work stoppages;




 



     
        •    

    
    labor disputes;




 



     
        •    

    
    weather interferences;




 



     
        •    

    
    unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems;




 



     
        •    

    
    unanticipated cost overruns;




 



     
        •    

    
    exchange rate risks;




 



     
        •    

    
    performance risks; and




 



     
        •    

    
    unsuccessful partnering relationships.





 


    In addition, NINA, the Company’s subsidiary focused on
    marketing, siting, developing, financing and investing in new
    advanced design nuclear projects in select markets across North
    America, including the planned STP Units 3 and 4 is subject to
    these and to additional risks, including delays in receiving or
    failure to receive commitments under the DOE’s loan
    guaranty program and the inability to sell down NINA’s
    interest in the STP expansion as the project develops.


 


    Any of these risks could cause NRG’s financial returns on
    new investments to be lower than expected, or could cause the
    Company to operate below expected capacity or availability
    levels, which could result in lost revenues, increased expenses,
    higher maintenance costs and penalties. Insurance is maintained
    to protect against these risks, warranties are generally
    obtained for limited periods relating to the construction of
    each project and its equipment in varying degrees, and
    contractors and equipment suppliers are obligated to meet
    certain performance levels. The insurance, warranties or
    performance guarantees, however, may not be adequate to cover
    increased expenses. As a result, a project may cost more than
    projected and may be unable to fund principal and interest
    payments under its construction financing obligations, if any. A
    default under such a financing obligation could result in losing
    the Company’s interest in a power generation facility.


 


    If the Company is unable to complete the development or
    construction of a facility or environmental control, or decides
    to delay or cancel such project, it may not be able to recover
    its investment in that facility or environmental control. In
    addition, the Company’s nuclear development initiatives are
    an integral part of the Company’s overall low or no carbon
    growth initiatives and the inability of the Company to maintain
    significant involvement in new nuclear development may result in
    the Company’s inability to successfully implement the
    Company’s other growth initiatives. Furthermore, if
    construction projects are not completed according to
    specification, the Company may incur liabilities and suffer
    reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs and reduced net
    income.


 



    The
    Company’s RepoweringNRG program is subject to financing
    risks that could adversely impact NRG’s financial
    performance.


 


    While NRG currently intends to develop and finance the more
    capital intensive, solid fuel-fired projects included in the
    RepoweringNRG program on a non-recourse or limited
    recourse basis through separate project financed entities, and
    intends to seek additional investments in most of these projects
    from third parties, NRG anticipates that it will need to make
    significant equity investments in these projects. NRG may also
    decide to develop and finance some of the projects, such as
    smaller gas-fired and renewable projects, using corporate
    financial resources rather than non-recourse debt, which could
    subject NRG to significant capital expenditure requirements and
    to risks inherent in the development and construction of new
    generation facilities. In addition to providing some or all of
    the equity required to develop and build the proposed projects,
    NRG’s ability to finance these projects on a non-recourse
    basis is contingent upon a number of factors, including the
    terms of the EPC contracts, construction costs, PPAs and fuel
    procurement contracts, capital markets conditions, the
    availability of tax credits and other government incentives for
    certain new technologies. To the extent NRG is not able to
    obtain





    
    50



 





    non-recourse financing for any project or should the credit
    rating agencies attribute a material amount of the project
    finance debt to NRG’s credit, the financing of the
    RepoweringNRG projects could have a negative impact on
    the credit ratings of NRG.


 


    As part of the RepoweringNRG program, NRG may also choose
    to undertake the repowering, refurbishment or upgrade of current
    facilities based on the Company’s assessment that such
    activity will provide adequate financial returns. Such projects
    often require several years of development and capital
    expenditures before commencement of commercial operations, and
    key assumptions underpinning a decision to make such an
    investment may prove incorrect, including assumptions regarding
    construction costs, timing, available financing and future fuel
    and power prices.


 



    Supplier
    and/or customer concentration at certain of NRG’s
    facilities may expose the Company to significant financial
    credit or performance risks.


 


    NRG often relies on a single contracted supplier or a small
    number of suppliers for the provision of fuel, transportation of
    fuel and other services required for the operation of certain of
    its facilities. If these suppliers cannot perform, the Company
    utilizes the marketplace to provide these services. There can be
    no assurance that the marketplace can provide these services as,
    when and where required.


 


    At times, NRG relies on a single customer or a few customers to
    purchase all or a significant portion of a facility’s
    output, in some cases under long-term agreements that account
    for a substantial percentage of the anticipated revenue from a
    given facility. The Company has also hedged a portion of its
    exposure to power price fluctuations through forward fixed price
    power sales and natural gas price swap agreements.
    Counterparties to these agreements may breach or may be unable
    to perform their obligations. NRG may not be able to enter into
    replacement agreements on terms as favorable as its existing
    agreements, or at all. If the Company was unable to enter into
    replacement PPA’s, the Company would sell its plants’
    power at market prices. If the Company is unable to enter into
    replacement fuel or fuel transportation purchase agreements, NRG
    would seek to purchase the Company’s fuel requirements at
    market prices, exposing the Company to market price volatility
    and the risk that fuel and transportation may not be available
    during certain periods at any price.


 


    The failure of any supplier or customer to fulfill its
    contractual obligations to NRG could have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s financial results. Consequently,
    the financial performance of the Company’s facilities is
    dependent on the credit quality of, and continued performance
    by, suppliers and customers.


 



    NRG
    relies on power transmission facilities that it does not own or
    control and that are subject to transmission constraints within
    a number of the Company’s core regions. If these facilities
    fail to provide NRG with adequate transmission capacity, the
    Company may be restricted in its ability to deliver wholesale
    electric power to its customers and the Company may either incur
    additional costs or forego revenues. Conversely, improvements to
    certain transmission systems could also reduce
    revenues.


 


    NRG depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by
    others to deliver the wholesale power it sells from the
    Company’s power generation plants to its customers. If
    transmission is disrupted, or if the transmission capacity
    infrastructure is inadequate, NRG’s ability to sell and
    deliver wholesale power may be adversely impacted. If a
    region’s power transmission infrastructure is inadequate,
    the Company’s recovery of wholesale costs and profits may
    be limited. If restrictive transmission price regulation is
    imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient
    incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure.
    The Company cannot also predict whether transmission facilities
    will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive
    access to those markets.


 


    In addition, in certain of the markets in which NRG operates,
    energy transmission congestion may occur and the Company may be
    deemed responsible for congestion costs if it schedules delivery
    of power between congestion zones during times when congestion
    occurs between the zones. If NRG were liable for such congestion
    costs, the Company’s financial results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    The Company has a significant amount of generation located in
    load pockets, making that generation valuable, particularly with
    respect to maintaining the reliability of the transmission grid.
    Expansion of transmission systems





    
    51



 





    to reduce or eliminate these load pockets could negatively
    impact the value or profitability of the Company’s existing
    facilities in these areas.


 



    Because
    NRG owns less than a majority of some of its project
    investments, the Company cannot exercise complete control over
    their operations.


 


    NRG has limited control over the operation of some project
    investments and joint ventures because the Company’s
    investments are in projects where it beneficially owns less than
    a majority of the ownership interests. NRG seeks to exert a
    degree of influence with respect to the management and operation
    of projects in which it owns less than a majority of the
    ownership interests by negotiating to obtain positions on
    management committees or to receive certain limited governance
    rights, such as rights to veto significant actions. However, the
    Company may not always succeed in such negotiations. NRG may be
    dependent on its co-venturers to operate such projects. The
    Company’s co-venturers may not have the level of
    experience, technical expertise, human resources management and
    other attributes necessary to operate these projects optimally.
    The approval of co-venturers also may be required for NRG to
    receive distributions of funds from projects or to transfer the
    Company’s interest in projects.


 



    Future
    acquisition activities may have adverse effects.


 


    NRG may seek to acquire additional companies or assets in the
    Company’s industry or which complement the Company’s
    industry. The acquisition of companies and assets is subject to
    substantial risks, including the failure to identify material
    problems during due diligence, the risk of over-paying for
    assets, the ability to retain customers and the inability to
    arrange financing for an acquisition as may be required or
    desired. Further, the integration and consolidation of
    acquisitions requires substantial human, financial and other
    resources and, ultimately, the Company’s acquisitions may
    not be successfully integrated. There can be no assurances that
    any future acquisitions will perform as expected or that the
    returns from such acquisitions will support the indebtedness
    incurred to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to
    develop them.


 



    NRG’s
    business is subject to substantial governmental regulation and
    may be adversely affected by legislative or regulatory changes,
    as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply
    with, existing or future regulations or
    requirements.


 


    NRG’s business is subject to extensive foreign, and
    U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulation.
    Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory
    regimes may cause the Company to incur significant additional
    costs, and failure to comply with such requirements could result
    in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of
    liens, fines,
    and/or civil
    or criminal liability.


 


    Public utilities under the FPA are required to obtain FERC
    acceptance of their rate schedules for wholesale sales of
    electricity. All of NRG’s non-qualifying facility
    generating companies and power marketing affiliates in the
    U.S. make sales of electricity in interstate commerce and
    are public utilities for purposes of the FPA. The FERC has
    granted each of NRG’s generating and power marketing
    companies the authority to sell electricity at market-based
    rates. The FERC’s orders that grant NRG’s generating
    and power marketing companies market-based rate authority
    reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if the FERC
    subsequently determines that NRG can exercise market power in
    transmission or generation, create barriers to entry, or engage
    in abusive affiliate transactions. In addition, NRG’s
    market-based sales are subject to certain market behavior rules,
    and if any of NRG’s generating and power marketing
    companies were deemed to have violated one of those rules, they
    are subject to potential disgorgement of profits associated with
    the violation
    and/or
    suspension or revocation of their market-based rate authority.
    If NRG’s generating and power marketing companies were to
    lose their market-based rate authority, such companies would be
    required to obtain the FERC’s acceptance of a
    cost-of-service
    rate schedule and could become subject to the accounting,
    record-keeping, and reporting requirements that are imposed on
    utilities with cost-based rate schedules. This could have an
    adverse effect on the rates NRG charges for power from its
    facilities.


 


    NRG is also affected by legislative and regulatory changes, as
    well as changes to market design, market rules, tariffs, cost
    allocations, and bidding rules that occur in the existing ISOs.
    The ISOs that oversee most of the wholesale power markets
    impose, and in the future may continue to impose, mitigation,
    including price limitations, offer caps, and other mechanisms to
    address some of the volatility and the potential exercise of
    market power in





    
    52



 





    these markets. These types of price limitations and other
    regulatory mechanisms may have an adverse effect on the
    profitability of NRG’s generation facilities that sell
    energy and capacity into the wholesale power markets.


 


    The regulatory environment applicable to the electric power
    industry has undergone substantial changes over the past several
    years as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state
    and federal levels. These changes are ongoing and the Company
    cannot predict the future design of the wholesale power markets
    or the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment
    will have on NRG’s business. In addition, in some of these
    markets, interested parties have proposed material market design
    changes, including the elimination of a single clearing price
    mechanism, as well as proposals to re-regulate the markets or
    require divestiture by generating companies to reduce their
    market share. Other proposals to re-regulate may be made and
    legislative or other attention to the electric power market
    restructuring process may delay or reverse the deregulation
    process. If competitive restructuring of the electric power
    markets is reversed, discontinued, or delayed, the
    Company’s business prospects and financial results could be
    negatively impacted.


 


    Furthermore, Congress is currently considering legislative
    proposals that would significantly increase the regulation of
    over-the-counter
    derivatives including those related to energy commodities,
    through the amendment of the Commodity Exchange Act. While NRG
    cannot predict at this time the outcome of any of the
    legislative efforts, many of the proposals generally contemplate
    mandatory clearing of such derivatives through clearing
    organizations and the increased standardization of contracts,
    products, and collateral requirements. Such changes could
    negatively impact NRG’s ability to hedge its portfolio in
    an efficient, cost-effective manner, and, among other things,
    may limit NRG’s ability to utilize liens as collateral. In
    addition, certain proposals seek to limit the proprietary
    trading activity of the banking institutions. Such changes may
    also result in a decrease in liquidity in the commodity markets.


 



    NRG’s
    ownership interest in a nuclear power facility subjects the
    Company to regulations, costs and liabilities uniquely
    associated with these types of facilities.


 


    Under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or AEA,
    operation of STP, of which NRG indirectly owns a 44.0% interest,
    is subject to regulation by the NRC. Such regulation includes
    licensing, inspection, enforcement, testing, evaluation and
    modification of all aspects of nuclear reactor power plant
    design and operation, environmental and safety performance,
    technical and financial qualifications, decommissioning funding
    assurance and transfer and foreign ownership restrictions.
    NRG’s 44% share of the output of STP represents
    approximately 1,175 MW of generation capacity.


 


    There are unique risks to owning and operating a nuclear power
    facility. These include liabilities related to the handling,
    treatment, storage, disposal, transport, release and use of
    radioactive materials, particularly with respect to spent
    nuclear fuel, and uncertainties regarding the ultimate, and
    potential exposure to, technical and financial risks associated
    with modifying or decommissioning a nuclear facility. The NRC
    could require the shutdown of the plant for safety reasons or
    refuse to permit restart of the unit after unplanned or planned
    outages. New or amended NRC safety and regulatory requirements
    may give rise to additional operation and maintenance costs and
    capital expenditures. STP may be obligated to continue storing
    spent nuclear fuel if the Department of Energy continues to fail
    to meet its contractual obligations to STP made pursuant to the
    U.S. Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 to accept and dispose
    of STP’s spent nuclear fuel. See also
    “Environmental Matters — U.S. Federal
    Environmental Initiatives — Nuclear Waste” in
    Item 1 for further discussion. Costs associated with these
    risks could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on
    NRG’s results of operations, financial condition or cash
    flow. In addition, to the extent that all or a part of STP is
    required by the NRC to permanently or temporarily shut down or
    modify its operations, or is otherwise subject to a forced
    outage, NRG may incur additional costs to the extent it is
    obligated to provide power from more expensive alternative
    sources — either NRG’s own plants, third party
    generators or the ERCOT — to cover the Company’s
    then existing forward sale obligations. Such shutdown or
    modification could also lead to substantial costs related to the
    storage and disposal of radioactive materials and spent nuclear
    fuel.


 


    NRG and the other owners of STP maintain nuclear property and
    nuclear liability insurance coverage as required by law. The
    Price-Anderson Act, as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 2005,
    requires owners of nuclear power plants in the U.S. to be
    collectively responsible for retrospective secondary insurance
    premiums for liability





    
    53



 





    to the public arising from nuclear incidents resulting in claims
    in excess of the required primary insurance coverage amount of
    $300 million per reactor. The Price-Anderson Act only
    covers nuclear liability associated with any accident in the
    course of operation of the nuclear reactor, transportation of
    nuclear fuel to the reactor site, in the storage of nuclear fuel
    and waste at the reactor site and the transportation of the
    spent nuclear fuel and nuclear waste from the nuclear reactor.
    All other non-nuclear liabilities are not covered. Any
    substantial retrospective premiums imposed under the
    Price-Anderson Act or losses not covered by insurance could have
    a material adverse effect on NRG’s financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.


 



    NRG is
    subject to environmental laws and regulations that impose
    extensive and increasingly stringent requirements on the
    Company’s ongoing operations, as well as potentially
    substantial liabilities arising out of environmental
    contamination. These environmental requirements and liabilities
    could adversely impact NRG’s results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows.


 


    NRG’s business is subject to the environmental laws and
    regulations of foreign, federal, state and local authorities.
    The Company must comply with numerous environmental laws and
    regulations and obtain numerous governmental permits and
    approvals to operate the Company’s plants. Should NRG fail
    to comply with any environmental requirements that apply to its
    operations, the Company could be subject to administrative,
    civil and/or
    criminal liability and fines, and regulatory agencies could take
    other actions seeking to curtail the Company’s operations.
    In addition, when new requirements take effect or when existing
    environmental requirements are revised, reinterpreted or subject
    to changing enforcement policies, NRG’s business, results
    of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be
    adversely affected.


 


    Environmental laws and regulations have generally become more
    stringent over time, and the Company expects this trend to
    continue. Regulations currently under revision by U.S. EPA,
    including CAIR, MACT standards to control Mercury or acid gases
    and the 316 (b) rule to mitigate impact by once-through
    cooling, could result in tighter standards or reduced compliance
    flexibility. While the NRG fleet employs advanced controls and
    utilizes industry’s best practices, new regulations to
    address tightened National Ambient Air Quality Standards for
    Ozone and PM 2.5 or new rules to further restrict ash handling
    at coal-fired power plants could also further restrict plant
    operations.


 



    Policies
    at the national, regional and state levels to regulate GHG
    emissions could adversely impact NRG’s result of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 


    At the national level and at various regional and state levels,
    policies are under development to regulate GHG emissions. In
    addition, GHG emissions from power plants will be subject to
    existing sections of the CAA including PSD/NSR and Title V
    permitting, at some point after the Light Duty Vehicle
    Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standards take effect. Implementation
    practices under the PSD/NSR requirements will determine the
    extent to which power plant operations are affected over time In
    2009, in the course of producing approximately 71 million
    MWh of electricity, NRG’s power plants emitted
    59 million tonnes of
    CO2,
    of which 53 million tonnes were emitted in the U.S.,
    3 million tonnes in Germany and 3 million tonnes in
    Australia.


 


    Further federal, state or regional regulation of GHG emissions
    could have a material impact on the Company’s financial
    performance. The actual impact on the Company’s financial
    performance will depend on a number of factors, including the
    overall level of GHG reductions required under any such
    regulations, the extent to which mitigation is required, the
    price and availability of offsets, and the extent to which NRG
    would be entitled to receive
    CO2
    emissions allowances without having to purchase them in an
    auction or on the open market.


 


    Of the approximately 53 million tonnes of
    CO2
    emitted by NRG in the U.S. in 2009, approximately
    8 million tonnes were emitted from the Company’s
    generating units in Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland,
    Massachusetts, and New York that are subject to RGGI which
    started in 2009. While 2009 through 2011
    CO2
    allowance prices have remained low, the impact of RGGI on future
    power prices (and thus on the Company’s financial
    performance), indirectly through generators seeking to pass
    through the cost of their
    CO2
    emissions, cannot be predicted.


 


    Hazards customary to the power production industry include the
    potential for unusual weather conditions, which could affect
    fuel pricing and availability, the Company’s route to
    market or access to customers,





    
    54



 





    i.e. transmission and distribution lines, or critical plant
    assets. To the extent that climate change contributes to the
    frequency or intensity of weather related events, NRG’s
    operations and planning process could be impacted.


 



    NRG’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    adversely impacted by strikes or work stoppages by its unionized
    employees or inability to replace employees as they
    retire.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, approximately 63% of NRG’s
    employees at its U.S. generation plants were covered by
    collective bargaining agreements. In the event that the
    Company’s union employees strike, participate in a work
    stoppage or slowdown or engage in other forms of labor strife or
    disruption, NRG would be responsible for procuring replacement
    labor or the Company could experience reduced power generation
    or outages. NRG’s ability to procure such labor is
    uncertain. Strikes, work stoppages or the inability to negotiate
    future collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms could
    have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business,
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In
    addition, a number of the Company’s employees at NRG’s
    plants are close to retirement. The Company’s inability to
    replace those workers could create potential knowledge and
    expertise gaps as those workers retire.


 



    Changes
    in technology may impair the value of NRG’s power
    plants.


 


    Research and development activities are ongoing to provide
    alternative and more efficient technologies to produce power,
    including fuel cells, “clean” coal and coal
    gasification, micro-turbines, photovoltaic (solar) cells and
    improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as
    more efficient gas turbines. Advances in these or other
    technologies could reduce the costs of power production to a
    level below what the Company has currently forecasted, which
    could adversely affect its cash flow, results of operations or
    competitive position.


 



    Acts
    of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on NRG’s
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    NRG’s generation facilities and the facilities of third
    parties on which they rely may be targets of terrorist
    activities, as well as events occurring in response to or in
    connection with them, that could cause environmental
    repercussions
    and/or
    result in full or partial disruption of the facilities ability
    to generate, transmit, transport or distribute electricity or
    natural gas. Strategic targets, such as energy-related
    facilities, may be at greater risk of future terrorist
    activities than other domestic targets. Any such environmental
    repercussions or disruption could result in a significant
    decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or
    remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flow.


 



    NRG’s
    level of indebtedness could adversely affect its ability to
    raise additional capital to fund its operations, or return
    capital to stockholders. It could also expose it to the risk of
    increased interest rates and limit its ability to react to
    changes in the economy or its industry.


 


    NRG’s substantial debt could have important consequences,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    increasing NRG’s vulnerability to general economic and
    industry conditions;




 



     
        •    

    
    requiring a substantial portion of NRG’s cash flow from
    operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and
    interest on its indebtedness, therefore reducing NRG’s
    ability to pay dividends to holders of its preferred or common
    stock or to use its cash flow to fund its operations, capital
    expenditures and future business opportunities;




 



     
        •    

    
    limiting NRG’s ability to enter into long-term power sales
    or fuel purchases which require credit support;




 



     
        •    

    
    exposing NRG to the risk of increased interest rates because
    certain of its borrowings, including borrowings under its new
    senior secured credit facility are at variable rates of interest;




 



     
        •    

    
    limiting NRG’s ability to obtain additional financing for
    working capital including collateral postings, capital
    expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and
    general corporate or other purposes; and




 



     
        •    

    
    limiting NRG’s ability to adjust to changing market
    conditions and placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared
    to its competitors who have less debt.







    
    55



 




 


    The indentures for NRG’s notes and senior secured credit
    facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that
    may limit the Company’s ability to return capital to
    stockholders or otherwise engage in activities that may be in
    its long-term best interests. NRG’s failure to comply with
    those covenants could result in an event of default which, if
    not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of
    the Company’s indebtedness.


 


    In addition, NRG’s ability to arrange financing, either at
    the corporate level or at a non-recourse project-level
    subsidiary, and the costs of such capital, are dependent on
    numerous factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    general economic and capital market conditions;




 



     
        •    

    
    credit availability from banks and other financial institutions;




 



     
        •    

    
    investor confidence in NRG, its partners and the regional
    wholesale power markets;




 



     
        •    

    
    NRG’s financial performance and the financial performance
    of its subsidiaries;




 



     
        •    

    
    NRG’s level of indebtedness and compliance with covenants
    in debt agreements;




 



     
        •    

    
    maintenance of acceptable credit ratings;




 



     
        •    

    
    cash flow; and




 



     
        •    

    
    provisions of tax and securities laws that may impact raising
    capital.





 


    NRG may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for
    these or other reasons. The failure to obtain additional capital
    from time to time may have a material adverse effect on its
    business and operations.


 



    Goodwill
    and/or other intangible assets not subject to amortization that
    NRG has recorded in connection with its acquisitions are subject
    to mandatory annual impairment evaluations and as a result, the
    Company could be required to write off some or all of this
    goodwill and other intangible assets, which may adversely affect
    the Company’s financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    In accordance with ASC-350, Intangibles-Goodwill and
    Others; or ASC 305, goodwill is not amortized but is
    reviewed annually or more frequently for impairment and other
    intangibles are also reviewed at least annually or more
    frequently, if certain conditions exist, and may be amortized.
    Any reduction in or impairment of the value of goodwill or other
    intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings which
    could materially adversely affect NRG’s reported results of
    operations and financial position in future periods.


 



    Volatile
    power supply costs and demand for power could adversely affect
    the financial performance of NRG’s retail
    business.


 


    Although NRG has begun the process of becoming the primary
    provider of Reliant Energy’s supply requirements, Reliant
    Energy presently purchases a significant portion of its supply
    requirements from third parties. As a result, Reliant
    Energy’s financial performance depends on its ability to
    obtain adequate supplies of electric generation from third
    parties at prices below the prices it charges its customers.
    Consequently, the Company’s earnings and cash flows could
    be adversely affected in any period in which Reliant
    Energy’s power supply costs rise at a greater rate than the
    rates it charges to customers. The price of power supply
    purchases associated with Reliant Energy’s energy
    commitments can be different than that reflected in the rates
    charged to customers due to, among other factors:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    varying supply procurement contracts used and the timing of
    entering into related contracts;




 



     
        •    

    
    subsequent changes in the overall price of natural gas;




 



     
        •    

    
    daily, monthly or seasonal fluctuations in the price of natural
    gas relative to the
    12-month
    forward prices;




 



     
        •    

    
    transmission constraints and the Company’s ability to move
    power to its customers; and




 



     
        •    

    
    changes in market heat rate (i.e., the relationship between
    power and natural gas prices).





 


    The Company’s earnings and cash flows could also be
    adversely affected in any period in which the demand for power
    significantly varies from the forecasted supply, which could
    occur due to, among other factors, weather events, competition
    and economic conditions.




    
    56



 






    NRG’s
    Texas retail business depends on the Electric Reliability
    Council of Texas, or ERCOT, to communicate operating and system
    information in a timely and accurate manner. Information that is
    not timely or accurate can have an impact on the Company’s
    current and future reported financial results.


 


    ERCOT communicates information relating to a customer’s
    choice of retail electric provider and other data needed for
    servicing the customer accounts of the Company’s retail
    electric providers. Any failure to perform these tasks will
    result in delays and other problems in enrolling, switching and
    billing customers. Information that is not timely or accurate
    may adversely impact the Company’s ability to serve load in
    the optimum manner.


 



    NRG’s
    Texas retail business could be liable for a share of the payment
    defaults of other market participants.


 


    If a market participant defaults on its payment obligations to
    an ISO, the Company, together with other market participants,
    are liable for a portion of the default obligation that is not
    otherwise covered by the defaulting market participant. Each ISO
    establishes credit requirements applicable to market
    participants and the basis for allocating payment default
    amounts to market participants. In ERCOT, the allocation is
    based on share of the total load.


 



    Significant
    events beyond the Company’s control, such as hurricanes and
    other weather-related problems or acts of terrorism, could cause
    a loss of load and customers and thus have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s Texas retail
    business.


 


    The uncertainty associated with events beyond the Company’s
    control, such as significant weather events and the risk of
    future terrorist activity, could cause a loss of load and
    customers and may affect the Company’s results of
    operations and financial condition in unpredictable ways. In
    addition, significant weather events or terrorist actions could
    damage or shut down the power transmission and distribution
    facilities upon which the retail business is dependent. Power
    supply may be sold at a loss if these events cause a significant
    loss of retail customer load.


 



    Cautionary
    Statement Regarding Forward Looking Information


 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or
    Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. The
    words “believes”, “projects”,
    “anticipates”, “plans”, “expects”,
    “intends”, “estimates” and similar
    expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
    These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown
    risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause NRG
    Energy, Inc.’s actual results, performance and
    achievements, or industry results, to be materially different
    from any future results, performance or achievements expressed
    or implied by such forward-looking statements. These factors,
    risks and uncertainties include the factors described under
    Risks Related to NRG in Item 1A of this report and the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    General economic conditions, changes in the wholesale power
    markets and fluctuations in the cost of fuel;








     
        •    

    
    Volatile power supply costs and demand for power;








     
        •    

    
    Hazards customary to the power production industry and power
    generation operations such as fuel and electricity price
    volatility, unusual weather conditions, catastrophic
    weather-related or other damage to facilities, unscheduled
    generation outages, maintenance or repairs, unanticipated
    changes to fuel supply costs or availability due to higher
    demand, shortages, transportation problems or other
    developments, environmental incidents, or electric transmission
    or gas pipeline system constraints and the possibility that NRG
    may not have adequate insurance to cover losses as a result of
    such hazards;








     
        •    

    
    The effectiveness of NRG’s risk management policies and
    procedures, and the ability of NRG’s counterparties to
    satisfy their financial commitments;








     
        •    

    
    Counterparties’ collateral demands and other factors
    affecting NRG’s liquidity position and financial condition;








     
        •    

    
    NRG’s ability to operate its businesses efficiently, manage
    capital expenditures and costs tightly, and generate earnings
    and cash flows from its asset-based businesses in relation to
    its debt and other obligations;








     
        •    

    
    NRG’s ability to enter into contracts to sell power and
    procure fuel on acceptable terms and prices;








     
        •    

    
    The liquidity and competitiveness of wholesale markets for
    energy commodities;








     
        •    

    
    Government regulation, including compliance with regulatory
    requirements and changes in market rules, rates, tariffs and
    environmental laws and increased regulation of carbon dioxide
    and other greenhouse gas emissions;







    
    57



 









    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    Price mitigation strategies and other market structures employed
    by ISOs or RTOs that result in a failure to adequately
    compensate NRG’s generation units for all of its costs;








     
        •    

    
    NRG’s ability to borrow additional funds and access capital
    markets, as well as NRG’s substantial indebtedness and the
    possibility that NRG may incur additional indebtedness going
    forward;








     
        •    

    
    Operating and financial restrictions placed on NRG and its
    subsidiaries that are contained in the indentures governing
    NRG’s outstanding notes, in NRG’s Senior Credit
    Facility, and in debt and other agreements of certain of NRG
    subsidiaries and project affiliates generally;








     
        •    

    
    NRG’s ability to implement its RepoweringNRG
    strategy of developing and building new power generation
    facilities, including new nuclear, wind and solar projects;








     
        •    

    
    NRG’s ability to implement its econrg strategy of finding
    ways to meet the challenges of climate change, clean air and
    protecting our natural resources while taking advantage of
    business opportunities;








     
        •    

    
    NRG’s ability to implement its FORNRG strategy of
    increasing the return on invested capital through operational
    performance improvements and a range of initiatives at plants
    and corporate offices to reduce costs or generate revenues;








     
        •    

    
    NRG’s ability to achieve its strategy of regularly
    returning capital to shareholders;








     
        •    

    
    Reliant Energy’s ability to maintain market share;








     
        •    

    
    NRG’s ability to successfully evaluate investments in new
    business and growth initiatives; and








     
        •    

    
    NRG’s ability to successfully integrate and manage any
    acquired businesses.





 


    Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were
    made, and NRG Energy, Inc. undertakes no obligation to publicly
    update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
    result of new information, future events or otherwise. The
    foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG’s actual
    results to differ materially from those contemplated in any
    forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    should not be construed as exhaustive.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B