Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors.



 


<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:-9.0pt;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:
0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
NS is subject
to significant governmental regulation and legislation over commercial,
environmental and operating matters.
 




<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:-9.0pt;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:
0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
 


<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:-9.0pt;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:
0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
Railroads are subject to commercial regulation by the STB, which has
jurisdiction over some routes, fuel surcharges, conditions of service and the
extension or abandonment of rail lines.
 

The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or
acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers.
 
In addition, Congress could enact re-regulation legislation.
 
Economic re-regulation of the rail
industry by Congress could have a significant negative impact on NS’
ability to determine prices for rail services, reduce capital spending on its
rail network, and result in a material adverse effect in the future on
NS’ financial position, results of operations or liquidity in a particular
year or quarter.



 



Railroads
are subject to safety and security regulation by the DOT and the DHS, which
regulate most aspects of NS’ operations.
 
Proposed amendments to federal rail
safety statutes, if enacted, could add significantly to operating costs and
increase the number of employees NS and other railroads employ.
 
In addition, NS’ failure to comply
with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on
NS.



 



NS’
operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental
laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air;
discharges to water ways or ground water supplies; handling, storage,
transportation, and disposal of waste and other materials; and the cleanup of
hazardous material or petroleum releases. The risk of incurring environmental
liability – for acts and omissions, past, present and future – is
inherent in the railroad business.  Several of NS’ subsidiaries own,
or have owned, land used as operating property or held for sale, or which is
leased or may have been leased and operated by others.  Environmental
problems that are latent or undisclosed may exist on these properties, and NS
could incur environmental liabilities or costs, the amount and materiality of
which cannot be estimated reliably at this time, with respect to one or more of
these properties.  Moreover, lawsuits and claims involving other
unidentified environmental sites and matters are likely to arise from time to
time, and the resulting liabilities could have a significant effect on
financial position, results of operations or liquidity in a particular year or
quarter.



 


<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:9.0pt;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:0in;
margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
NS, as a common carrier by rail, must offer to
transport hazardous materials, regardless of risk.

 
Transportation of certain hazardous materials could create catastrophic
losses in terms of personal injury and property damage costs, and compromise
critical parts of our rail network.
 

Legislation introduced in Congress would give federal regulators
increased authority to conduct investigations and levy substantial fines and
penalties in connection with railroad accidents.
 
Under provisions enacted in August 2007,
federal regulators are required to prescribe new regulations governing
railroads’ transportation of hazardous materials, including annual routing
analyses, security risk assessments and employee security training.
 
Regulations proposed in late 2006 by DHS
mandating chain of custody and security measures likely will cause service
degradation and higher costs for the transportation of toxic inhalation hazard
materials.
 
Further, certain local
governments have sought to enact ordinances banning hazardous materials moving
by rail within their borders.
 
Some
legislators have contemplated pre-notification requirements for hazardous
materials shipments.
 
If promulgated
such ordinances could require the re-routing of hazardous materials shipments,
with the potential for significant additional costs and network inefficiencies.




 


<b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>
NS
may be affected by terrorism or war.
 


Any terrorist
attack, or other similar event, any government response thereto, and war or
risk of war could cause significant business interruption and may adversely
affect NS’ results of operations, financial position, and liquidity in a
particular year or quarter.
 
Because
NS plays a critical role in the nation’s transportation system, it could
become the target of such an attack or have a significant role in the
government’s preemptive approach or response to an attack or war.



 







<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:9.0pt;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:0in;
margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
Although NS
currently maintains insurance coverage for third-party liability arising out of
war and acts of terrorism, it maintains only limited insurance coverage for
first-party property damage and damage to property in NS’ care, custody
or control caused by certain acts of terrorism.
 
In addition, premiums for some or all of
NS’ current insurance programs covering these losses could increase
dramatically, or insurance coverage for certain losses may not be available to
NS in the future.


<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:.25in;
margin-bottom:.0001pt;text-indent:-.25in;tab-stops:list .25in'>
 


<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:-9.0pt;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:
0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
NS may be
affected by general economic conditions.
 


Prolonged negative
changes in domestic and global economic conditions affecting the producers and
consumers of the commodities NS carries may have an adverse effect on its
operating results, financial position, and liquidity.
 
Economic conditions resulting in
bankruptcies of one or more large customers could have a significant impact on NS’
financial position, results of operations or liquidity in a particular year or quarter.




 


<b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>
NS
faces competition from other transportation providers.
 

NS is subject to competition from motor carriers, railroads, and
to a lesser extent, ships, barges, and pipelines, on the basis of transit time,
pricing, and the quality and reliability of service.
 
While NS has used primarily internal
resources to build or acquire and maintain its rail system, trucks and barges
have been able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any
future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or
reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation in the regions in
which NS operates, or legislation granting materially greater latitude for
motor carriers with respect to size or weight limitations, could have a
material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity
in a particular year or quarter.



 


<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:9.0pt;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:0in;
margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
The operations of carriers with which NS
interchanges may adversely affect its operations.
 

NS’ ability to provide rail service to customers in the U.S.
and Canada depends in large part upon its ability to maintain cooperative
relationships with connecting carriers with respect to, among other matters,
freight rates, revenue divisions, car supply and locomotive availability, data
exchange and communications, reciprocal switching, interchange and trackage
rights.
 
Deterioration in the
operations of, or service provided by connecting carriers, or in our
relationship with those connecting carriers,
could result in NS’ inability to meet its customers’
demands or require NS to use alternate train routes, which could result in
significant additional costs and network inefficiencies.



 


<b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>
NS
relies on technology and technology improvements in its business operations.
 

If NS experiences significant disruption or failure of one or more
of its information technology systems, including computer hardware, software,
and communications equipment, NS could experience a service interruption,
security breach, or other operational difficulties, which could have a material
adverse impact on its results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity
in a particular year or quarter.
 

Additionally, if NS does not have sufficient capital to acquire new
technology or if it is unable to implement new technology, NS may suffer a
competitive disadvantage within the rail industry and with companies providing
other modes of transportation service, which could have a material adverse
effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity in a
particular year or quarter.



 


<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:.15in;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:0in;
margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
The vast
majority of NS employees belong to labor unions, and labor agreements, strikes,
or work stoppages could adversely affect its operations.
 

A
pproximately 26,000, or
about 85%, of NS railroad employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements with various labor unions. 
If
unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown,
NS could experience a significant disruption of its operations.
 
Additionally, future national labor
agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor
agreements, could significantly increase NS’ costs for healthcare, wages,
and other benefits.
 
Any of these
factors could have a material adverse impact on NS’ financial position, results
of operations or liquidity in a particular year or quarter.



 


<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:1.8pt;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:0in;
margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
NS may be
subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures.
 

The nature of NS’ business exposes it to the potential for
various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury,
commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters.

 
Job-related







<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:1.8pt;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:0in;
margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
personal injury and occupational
claims are subject to the Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA), which
is applicable only to railroads.  FELA’s fault-based tort system
produces results that are unpredictable and inconsistent as compared with a
no-fault worker’s compensation system.
 
The variability inherent in this system
could result in actual costs being very different from the liability recorded.



 


<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:9.0pt;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:0in;
margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
Any material
changes to current litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident involving
any or all of freight loss or property damage, personal injury, and
environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on NS’
operating results, financial condition, and liquidity to the extent not covered
by insurance.
 
NS has obtained
insurance for potential losses for third-party liability and first-party
property damages.
 
Specified levels
of risk are retained on a self-insurance basis (currently up to $25 million and
above $1 billion per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage to
third parties and $25 million and above $175 million per occurrence for
property owned by NS or in its care, custody or control).
 
Insurance is available from a limited
number of insurers and may not continue to be available or, if available, may
not be obtainable on terms acceptable to NS.
 



 


<b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>
Severe weather could result
in significant business interruptions and expenditures.
 

Severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena, including
hurricanes and floods, may cause significant business interruptions and result
in increased costs, increased liabilities, and decreased revenues, which could
have an adverse effect on NS’ financial position, results of operations
or liquidity in a particular year or quarter.



 


<b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>
Unpredictability
of demand for rail services resulting in the unavailability of qualified
personnel could adversely affect NS’ operational efficiency and ability
to meet demand.
 

Workforce demographics, training
requirements, and the availability of qualified personnel, particularly
engineers and trainmen, could each have a negative impact on NS’ ability
to meet demand for rail service. Unpredictable increases in demand for rail
services may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on NS’
operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on its financial
position, results of operations or liquidity in a particular year or quarter.



 


<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:-.1in;margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:0in;
margin-bottom:.0001pt'>
NS may be affected by supply constraints
resulting from disruptions in the fuel markets or the nature of some of its
supplier markets.
 

NS

consumes about 500 million gallons of diesel fuel each year.
 
Fuel availability could be affected by
any limitation in the fuel supply or by any imposition of mandatory allocation
or rationing regulations.
 
If a
severe fuel supply shortage arose from production curtailments, disruption of
oil imports, disruption of domestic refinery production, damage to refinery or
pipeline infrastructure, political unrest, war or otherwise, NS’ financial
position, results of operations or liquidity in a particular year or quarter
could be adversely affected.
 
Also,
such an event would impact NS as well as its customers and other transportation
companies.
 



 



Due to the capital intensive nature and industry-specific
requirements of the rail industry, there are high barriers of entry for
potential new suppliers of core railroad items, such as locomotives and rolling
stock equipment.
 
Additionally, NS
competes with other industries for available capacity and raw materials used in
the production of certain track materials, such as rail and ties.
 
Changes in the competitive landscapes of
these limited-supplier markets could result in increased prices or material
shortages that could materially affect NS’ financial position, results of
operations or liquidity in a particular year or quarter.



 



Item 1B