Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The following risk factors and other information included in
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
    described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks
    and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently
    deem less significant may also impair our business operations.
    Please see page 2 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for additional discussion of these forward-looking statements.
    If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business,
    operating results, and financial condition could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    Factors
    beyond our control could cause our quarterly results to
    fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock
    price.


 


    We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of
    operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be
    relied upon as indicators of future performance. Many of the
    factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to
    fluctuate significantly in the future are beyond our control and
    include, but are not limited to, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changes in general economic conditions and specific economic
    conditions in the computer, storage, and networking industries



 


     
        • 

    
    General decrease in global corporate spending on information
    technology leading to a decline in demand for our products



 


     
        • 

    
    A shift in federal government spending patterns



 


     
        • 

    
    The possible effects of terrorist activity and international
    conflicts, which could lead to business interruptions and
    difficulty in forecasting



 


     
        • 

    
    The level of competition in our target product markets



 


     
        • 

    
    Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers due to industry
    consolidation, which could subject us to periodic
    supply-and-demand,
    price rigidity, and quality issues with our components



 


     
        • 

    
    The size, timing, and cancellation of significant orders



 


     
        • 

    
    Product configuration and mix



 


     
        • 

    
    The extent to which our customers renew their service and
    maintenance contracts with us



 


     
        • 

    
    Market acceptance of new products and product enhancements



 


     
        • 

    
    Announcements, introductions, and transitions of new products by
    us or our competitors






    
    20



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or
    product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in pricing by us in response to competitive pricing
    actions



 


     
        • 

    
    Our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and
    enhancements in a timely manner



 


     
        • 

    
    Supply constraints



 


     
        • 

    
    Technological changes in our target product markets



 


     
        • 

    
    The levels of expenditure on research and development and sales
    and marketing programs



 


     
        • 

    
    Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions



 


     
        • 

    
    Excess or inadequate facilities



 


     
        • 

    
    Disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we
    continue to enhance and adapt our system infrastructure to
    accommodate future growth



 


     
        • 

    
    Future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting
    policies



 


     
        • 

    
    Seasonality





 


    In addition, sales for any future quarter may vary and
    accordingly be different from what we forecast. We manufacture
    products based on a combination of specific order requirements
    and forecasts of our customer demands. Products are typically
    shipped within one to four weeks following receipt of an order.
    In certain circumstances, customers may cancel or reschedule
    orders without penalty. Product sales are also difficult to
    forecast because the storage and data management market is
    rapidly evolving and our sales cycle varies substantially from
    customer to customer.


 


    We derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from
    orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings typically follow
    intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end
    of the quarter. If we do not achieve bookings in the latter part
    of a quarter consistent with our quarterly financial targets,
    our financial results will be adversely impacted. If revenues do
    not meet our expectations, our operating profit may be
    negatively impacted because portions of our expenses are fixed
    and difficult to reduce in a short period of time. If our
    revenues are lower than expected, our fixed expenses could
    adversely affect our net income and cash flow until revenues
    increase or until such fixed expenses are reduced to a level
    commensurate with revenues.


 


    For example, due to macroeconomic conditions and an IT spending
    slowdown in the U.S., our fourth quarter fiscal 2007 bookings
    were back-end loaded and finished lower than our forecast. In
    addition, in the last two weeks of the fourth quarter in fiscal
    2007, we experienced a shift in the mix of our bookings towards
    more deferred elements. As a result, we did not build our normal
    levels of non-deferred backlog at the end of the fourth quarter,
    which will impact the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Without the
    benefit of normal backlog, we do not expect our usual level of
    growth in first quarter revenue, and as a result, our expense
    levels as a percentage of our revenue will be above our targeted
    business model. Given the lack of growth in our non-deferred
    backlog, we lowered our forecasts for the first quarter of
    fiscal 2008 in revenues, operating margins and earnings.


 


    Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in one
    or more future quarters our results may fall below our forecasts
    and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In
    such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely
    decrease.


 



    The
    marketplace for our common stock has fluctuated significantly in
    the past and will likely continue to do so in the
    future.


 


    The market price for our common stock has experienced
    substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could
    cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These
    factors include but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in our operating results



 


     
        • 

    
    Variations between our operating results and either the guidance
    we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of
    securities analysts






    
    21



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by
    investors to be comparable to us



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections



 


     
        • 

    
    Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other
    regulatory bodies



 


     
        • 

    
    Economic developments in the storage and data management market
    as a whole



 


     
        • 

    
    International conflicts and acts of terrorism



 


     
        • 

    
    Announcements of new products, applications, or product
    enhancements by us or our competitors



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers, and
    channel and strategic partners



 


     
        • 

    
    General market conditions





 


    In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that
    has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities
    of many technology companies. Additionally, certain
    macroeconomic factors such as changes in interest rates, the
    market climate for the technology sector, and levels of
    corporate spending on information technology could also have an
    impact on the trading price of our stock. As a result, the
    market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in
    the future, and any broad market decline, as well as our own
    operating results, may materially and adversely affect the
    market price of our common stock.


 


    Macroeconomic conditions and IT spending slowdown in the U.S as
    well as variations in our expected operating performance may
    continue to cause volatility in our stock price. We are unable
    to predict changes in general economic conditions and when
    global IT spending rates will be affected. Furthermore, if there
    are future reductions in either domestic or international IT
    spending rates, or if IT spending rates do not increase, our
    revenues, operating results and stock price may continue to be
    adversely affected.


 



    Our
    forecasts of our revenues and earnings outlook may be inaccurate
    and could materially and adversely impact our business or our
    planned results of operations.


 


    Our revenues are difficult to forecast. We use a
    “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to
    forecast revenues and trends in our business. Sales personnel
    monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a
    customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the
    sale and the products or services to be sold. These estimates
    are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our
    pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a
    particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part
    because the “conversion rate” of the pipeline into
    contracts varies from customer to customer, can be difficult to
    estimate and requires management judgment. Small deviations from
    our forecasted conversion rate may result in inaccurate plans
    and budgets and materially adversely impact our business or our
    planned results of operations. In particular, a slowdown in IT
    spending or weak economic conditions or evolving technology
    generally can reduce the conversion rate in a particular quarter
    as our customers’ purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced
    in amount or cancelled. Moreover, even after contracts have been
    executed, extensive analysis is required before the timing of
    revenue recognition can be reliably determined; this delay
    reflects both the complexity of the revenue recognition rules
    applicable to software and the effect that the multiple element
    arrangements and other terms and conditions can have when these
    rules are applied.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to
    technological change, if our new products do not achieve market
    acceptance, or if we fail to manage the transition between our
    new and old products, or if we cannot provide the level of
    service and support for our new products, our operating results
    could be materially and adversely affected.


 


    Our future growth depends upon the successful development and
    introduction of new hardware and software products. Due to the
    complexity of storage subsystems and storage security
    appliances, and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort
    required to produce new products, such products are subject to
    significant technical risks. However, our new products may not
    achieve market acceptance. Additional product introductions in
    future periods may also impact our sales of existing products.
    In addition, our new products must respond to technological
    changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable, for
    technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new



    
    22



Table of Contents




    products in a timely manner in response to changing market
    conditions or customer requirements, or if such products do not
    achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 


    As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully
    manage the transition from older products in order to minimize
    disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive
    levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough
    supplies of new products can be delivered to meet
    customers’ demands.


 


    As we enter into new or emerging markets, we will likely
    increase demands on our service and support operations and may
    be exposed to additional competition. We may not be able to
    provide products, service, and support to effectively compete
    for these market opportunities. Further, provision of greater
    levels of services from us may result in a delay in the timing
    of revenue recognition.


 



    An
    increase in competition could materially and adversely affect
    our operating results.


 


    The storage markets are intensely competitive and are
    characterized by rapidly changing technology. In the storage
    market, our primary and nearline storage system products and our
    associated storage software portfolio compete primarily with
    storage system products and data management software from EMC,
    HDS, HP, IBM, and Sun/StorageTek. We also see Dell, Inc. as a
    competitor in the storage marketplace, primarily through its
    business partnership with EMC, allowing Dell to resell EMC
    storage hardware and software products. We have also
    historically encountered less-frequent competition from
    companies including LSI Logic. In the secondary storage market,
    which includes the disk-to-disk backup, compliance, and business
    continuity segments, our solutions compete primarily against
    products from EMC and Sun/StorageTek. Our NearStore VTL
    appliances also compete with traditional tape backup solutions
    in the broader data backup/recovery space. Additionally, a
    number of small, new, privately-held companies are currently
    attempting to enter the storage systems and data management
    software markets and the near-line and NearStore VTL storage
    markets, some of which may become significant competitors in the
    future.


 


    There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our
    markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as
    companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions
    in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are
    unable to continue operations. We believe that industry
    consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better
    able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. In
    addition, current and potential competitors have established or
    may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with
    third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors
    or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire
    significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be
    able to compete successfully against current or future
    competitors. Competitive pressures we face could materially and
    adversely affect our operating results.


 



    We
    rely on a limited number of suppliers, and any disruption or
    termination of these supply arrangements could delay shipment of
    our products and could materially and adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    We rely on a limited number of suppliers for components such as
    disk drives, computer boards, and microprocessors utilized in
    the assembly of our products. In recent years, rapid industry
    consolidation has led to fewer component suppliers, which could
    subject us to periodic supply constraints and price rigidity.


 


    Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several
    risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required
    components because we do not have long-term supply commitments



 


     
        • 

    
    Supplier capacity constraints



 


     
        • 

    
    Price increases



 


     
        • 

    
    Timely delivery



 


     
        • 

    
    Component quality





 


    Component quality is particularly significant with respect to
    our suppliers of disk drives. In order to meet product
    performance requirements, we must obtain disk drives of
    extremely high quality and capacity. In addition, there are
    periodic
    supply-and-demand
    issues for disk drives, microprocessors, and semiconductor
    memory



    
    23



Table of Contents




    components, which could result in component shortages, selective
    supply allocations, and increased prices of such components. We
    cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain our full
    requirements of such components in the future or that prices of
    such components will not increase. In addition, problems with
    respect to yield and quality of such components and timeliness
    of deliveries could occur. Disruption or termination of the
    supply of these components could delay shipments of our products
    and could materially and adversely affect our operating results.
    Such delays could also damage relationships with current and
    prospective customers and suppliers.


 


    In addition, we license certain technology and software from
    third parties that are incorporated into our products. If we are
    unable to obtain or license the technology and software on a
    timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products to our
    customers in a timely manner.


 



    The
    loss of any contract manufacturers or the failure to accurately
    forecast demand for our products or successfully manage our
    relationships with our contract manufacturers could negatively
    impact our ability to manufacture and sell our
    products.


 


    We currently rely on several contract manufacturers to
    manufacture most of our products. Our reliance on our
    third-party contract manufacturers reduces our control over the
    manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced
    control over quality assurance, production costs, and product
    supply. If we should fail to effectively manage our
    relationships with our contract manufacturers, or if our
    contract manufacturers experience delays, disruptions, capacity
    constraints, or quality control problems in their manufacturing
    operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could
    be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be
    harmed. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing
    volume production are expensive and time-consuming. If we are
    required to change contract manufacturers or assume internal
    manufacturing operations, we may lose revenue and damage our
    customer relationships. If we inaccurately forecast demand for
    our products, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or
    incur cancellation charges or penalties, which could adversely
    impact our operating results. As of April 27, 2007, we have
    no purchase commitment under these agreements.


 


    We intend to regularly introduce new products and product
    enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume
    production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and
    suppliers. We may need to increase our material purchases,
    contract manufacturing capacity, and internal test and quality
    functions to meet anticipated demand. The inability of our
    contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of
    high-quality products, or the inability to obtain raw materials,
    could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders.


 



    Our
    future financial performance depends on growth in the storage
    and data management markets. If these markets do not continue to
    grow at the rates at which we forecast growth, our operating
    results will be materially and adversely impacted.


 


    All of our products address the storage and data management
    markets. Accordingly, our future financial performance will
    depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data
    management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging
    standards in these markets. We cannot assure you that the
    markets for storage and data management will continue to grow or
    that emerging standards in these markets will not adversely
    affect the growth of UNIX, Windows, and the World Wide Web
    server markets upon which we depend.


 


    For example, we provide our open access data retention solutions
    to customers within the financial services, healthcare,
    pharmaceuticals, and government market segments, industries that
    are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with
    respect to data access, reliability, and permanence (such as
    Rule 17(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended) in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we
    operate. If our products do not meet, and continue to comply
    with, these evolving governmental regulations in this regard,
    customers in these market and geographical segments will not
    purchase our products, and therefore we will not be able to
    expand our product offerings in these market and geographical
    segments at the rates for which we have forecast.



    
    24



Table of Contents





    We are
    also exposed to unfavorable economic and market conditions and
    the uncertain geopolitical environment.


 


    Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable
    economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical
    environment. A reduction in demand for storage and data
    management caused by weakening economic conditions and decreases
    in corporate spending will result in decreased revenues and
    lower revenue growth rates. The network storage market growth
    declined significantly beginning in the third quarter of fiscal
    2001 through fiscal 2003, causing both our revenues and
    operating results to decline. If the storage and data management
    markets grow more slowly than anticipated, or if emerging
    standards other than those adopted by us become increasingly
    accepted by these markets, our operating results could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 


    Recent turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of
    the world, including terrorist activities and military actions,
    particularly the continuing tension in and surrounding Iraq, and
    changes in energy costs may continue to put pressure on global
    economic conditions. If the economic and market conditions in
    the U.S. and globally do not improve, or if they
    deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business,
    operating results, and financial condition.


 



    Our
    gross margins may vary based on the configuration of our product
    and service solutions, and such variation may make it more
    difficult to forecast our earnings.


 


    We derive a significant portion of our sales from the resale of
    disk drives as components of our storage systems, and the resale
    market for hard disk drives is highly competitive and subject to
    intense pricing pressures. Our sales of disk drives generate
    lower gross margin percentages than those of our storage
    systems. As a result, as we sell more highly configured systems
    with greater disk drive content, overall gross margin
    percentages may be negatively affected.


 


    Our gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a
    variety of other factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Demand for storage and data management products



 


     
        • 

    
    Discount levels and price competition



 


     
        • 

    
    Direct versus indirect and OEM sales



 


     
        • 

    
    Product and add-on software mix



 


     
        • 

    
    The mix of services as a percentage of revenue



 


     
        • 

    
    The mix and average selling prices of products



 


     
        • 

    
    The mix of disk content



 


     
        • 

    
    New product introductions and enhancements



 


     
        • 

    
    Excess inventory purchase commitments as a result of changes in
    demand forecasts and possible product and software defects as we
    transition our products



 


     
        • 

    
    The cost of components, manufacturing labor, and quality





 


    Changes in service gross margins may result from various factors
    such as continued investments in our customer support
    infrastructure and changes in the mix between technical support
    services and professional services, as well as the timing of
    technical support service contract initiations and renewals.


 



    Our
    effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could
    increase our income tax expense and reduce our net
    income.


 


    Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are
    taxed at lower rates as compared to the U.S. statutory tax
    rate






    
    25



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as
    a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses by
    tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective
    tax rates by tax jurisdiction different than our estimates



 


     
        • 

    
    Changing tax laws, accounting standards, including
    SFAS No. 123R and FIN No. 48, regulations,
    and interpretations in multiple tax jurisdictions in which we
    operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings



 


     
        • 

    
    An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes,
    including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs
    of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment
    of goodwill



 


     
        • 

    
    The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws



 


     
        • 

    
    Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could
    significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in
    which the settlements take place



 


     
        • 

    
    A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign
    earnings





 


    The price of our common stock could decline to the extent that
    our financial results are materially affected by an adverse
    change in our effective tax rate. We are currently undergoing
    federal income tax audits in the U.S. and several foreign
    tax jurisdictions. The rights to some of our intellectual
    property (“IP”) are owned by certain of our foreign
    subsidiaries, and payments are made between U.S. and
    foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of this IP.
    Recently, some other companies have had their foreign IP
    arrangements challenged as part of an examination. Our
    management does not believe, based upon information currently
    known to us that the final resolution of any of our audits will
    have a material adverse effect upon our consolidated financial
    position and the results of operations and cash flows. If the
    ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these tax
    jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we
    have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash
    flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.


 



    We may
    face increased risks and uncertainties related to our current or
    future acquisitions and nonmarketable securities, and these
    investments may not achieve our objectives.


 


    As part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating
    opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would
    complement our current products, expand the breadth of our
    markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. We may engage in
    future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders’
    investments and cause us to use cash, to incur debt, or to
    assume contingent liabilities.


 


    Acquisitions of companies entail numerous risks, and we may not
    be able to successfully integrate acquired operations and
    products or to realize anticipated synergies, economies of
    scale, or other value. Integration risks and issues may include,
    but are not limited to, key personnel retention and
    assimilation, management distraction, technical development, and
    unexpected costs and liabilities, including goodwill impairment
    charges. In addition, we may be unable to recover strategic
    investments in development stage entities. Any such problems
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, and results of operation.


 


    On occasion, we invest in nonmarketable securities of private
    companies. As of April 27, 2007, the carrying value of our
    investments in nonmarketable securities totaled
    $8.9 million. Investments in nonmarketable securities are
    inherently risky, and some of these companies are likely to
    fail. Their success (or lack thereof) is dependent on these
    companies product development, market acceptance, operational
    efficiency and other key business success factors. In addition,
    depending on these companies’ future prospects, they may
    not be able to raise additional funds when needed or they may
    receive lower valuations, with less favorable investment terms
    than in previous financings, and our investments in them would
    likely become impaired. In fiscal 2007, we recorded a
    $2.1 million write-down relating to our investments in two
    privately-held companies.



    
    26



Table of Contents





    We
    cannot assure you that our OEM relationship with IBM will
    generate significant revenue.


 


    In April 2005, we announced a strategic partner relationship
    with IBM. As part of the relationship, we entered into an
    original equipment manufacturing (“OEM”) agreement
    that enables IBM to sell IBM branded solutions based on Network
    Appliance unified solutions, including NearStore and the NetApp
    V-Series systems, as well as associated software offerings.
    While this agreement is an element of our strategy to expand our
    reach into more customers and countries, we do not have an
    exclusive relationship with IBM, and there is no minimum
    commitment for any given period of time; therefore we cannot
    assure you that this relationship will contribute any revenue in
    future years. In addition, we have no control over the products
    that IBM selects to sell, or their release schedule and timing
    of those products; nor do we control their pricing. In the event
    that sales through IBM will increase, we may experience
    distribution channel conflicts between our direct sales force
    and IBM, or among our channel partners. If we fail to minimize
    channel conflicts, our operating results and financial condition
    could be harmed. In addition, since this agreement is relatively
    new, we do not have a history upon which to base our analysis of
    its future success.


 


    Currently we do not and cannot assure you that this OEM
    relationship will generate significant revenue or that this
    strategic partnership will continue to be in effect for any
    specific period of time.


 



    If we
    are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop
    new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenue may
    be impacted negatively.


 


    An element of our strategy to increase revenue is to
    strategically partner with major third-party software and
    hardware vendors that integrate our products into their products
    and also comarket our products with these vendors. We have
    significant partner relationships with database, business
    application, and backup management companies, including
    Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, and Symantec. A number of these
    strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded
    access to segments of the storage market. There is intense
    competition for attractive strategic partners, and even if we
    can establish strategic relationships with these partners, we
    cannot assure you that these partnerships will generate
    significant revenue or that the partnerships will continue to be
    in effect for any specific period of time.


 


    We intend to continue to establish and maintain business
    relationships with technology companies to accelerate the
    development and marketing of our storage solutions. To the
    extent that we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships
    and maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenue
    and operating results could be impacted negatively. In addition,
    the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse
    effect on the progress of our new products under development
    with that partner.


 



    We
    cannot assure you that we are able to maintain existing
    resellers and attract new resellers, and that channel conflicts
    will not materially adversely affect our channel relationships.
    In addition, we do not have exclusive relationships with our
    resellers and accordingly there is a risk that those resellers
    may give higher priority to products of other suppliers, which
    could materially adversely affect our operating
    results.


 


    We market and sell our storage solutions directly through our
    worldwide sales force and indirectly through channels such as
    value-added resellers (“VAR”), systems integrators,
    distributors, OEMs, and strategic business partners, and we
    derive a significant portion of our revenue from these indirect
    channel partners. In fiscal 2007, our indirect channels
    accounted for 59.6% of our consolidated revenues.


 


    However, in order for us to maintain our current revenue sources
    and grow our revenue as we have forecasted, we must effectively
    manage our relationships with these indirect channel partners.
    To do so, we must attract and retain a sufficient number of
    qualified channel partners to successfully market our products.
    However, because we also sell our products directly to customers
    through our sales force, on occasion we compete with our
    indirect channels for sales of our products to our end
    customers, competition that could result in conflicts with these
    indirect channel partners and make it harder for us to attract
    and retain these indirect channel partners. At the same time,
    our indirect channel partners may offer products that are
    competitive to ours. In addition, because our reseller partners
    generally offer products from several different companies,
    including products of our competitors, these resellers may give
    higher priority to the marketing, sales, and support of our
    competitors’ products than ours. If we fail to effectively
    manage our relationships with these indirect channel partners to
    minimize channel conflict and continue to evaluate and meet our
    indirect sales partners’ needs with respect to our
    products, we will not be able to maintain



    
    27



Table of Contents




    or increase our revenue as we have forecasted, which would have
    a materially adverse affect on our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations. Additionally, if we do not
    manage distribution of our products and services and support
    effectively, or if our resellers’ financial conditions or
    operations weaken, our revenues and gross margins could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Risks
    inherent in our international operations could have a material
    adverse effect on our operating results.


 


    We conduct business internationally. For the year ended
    April 27, 2007, 44.7% of our total revenues was from
    international customers (including U.S. exports).
    Accordingly, our future operating results could be materially
    and adversely affected by a variety of factors, some of which
    are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or
    economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade
    protection measures and other regulatory requirements,
    government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and
    international conflicts.


 


    Our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and
    in foreign currencies. An increase in the value of the
    U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our
    products more expensive and therefore potentially less
    competitive in foreign markets. Conversely, lowering our price
    in local currency may result in lower
    U.S.-based
    revenue. For international sales and expenditures denominated in
    foreign currencies, we are subject to risks associated with
    currency fluctuations. We utilize forward and option contracts
    to hedge our foreign currency exposure associated with certain
    assets and liabilities as well as anticipated foreign currency
    cash flows. All balance sheet hedges are marked to market
    through earnings every quarter, while gains and losses on cash
    flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income until
    forecasted transactions occur, at which time such realized gains
    and losses are recognized in earnings. These hedges attempt to
    reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of
    currency exchange movements. Factors that could have an impact
    on the effectiveness of our hedging program include the accuracy
    of forecasts and the volatility of foreign currency markets.
    There can be no assurance that such hedging strategies will be
    successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not
    have a material adverse effect on our operating results.


 


    Additional risks inherent in our international business
    activities generally include, among others, longer accounts
    receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing
    international operations. Such factors could materially and
    adversely affect our future international sales and consequently
    our operating results.


 


    We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our
    non-U.S. customers.
    These benefits are contingent upon existing tax regulations in
    the U.S. and in the countries in which our international
    operations are located. Future changes in domestic or
    international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability
    to continue to realize these tax benefits. Our effective tax
    rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving
    interpretations of existing law or regulations. Potentially
    adverse tax consequences could negatively impact the operating
    and financial results from international operations.
    International operations currently benefit from a tax ruling
    concluded in the Netherlands.


 


    Our operating results have not been significantly affected by
    seasonality in the past. In the future, as we expand our
    presence internationally, we may experience more seasonality in
    the sale of our products. For example, sales to European
    customers tend to be weaker in the summer months, which is our
    first fiscal quarter.


 


    We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or
    increase international market demand for our products.


 



    If we
    fail to manage our expanding business effectively, our operating
    results could be materially and adversely
    affected.


 


    Our future operating results depend to a large extent on
    management’s ability to successfully manage expansion and
    growth, including but not limited to expanding international
    operations, forecasting revenues, addressing new markets,
    controlling expenses, implementing and enhancing infrastructure,
    investing in people, facilities and capital equipment, and
    managing our assets. An unexpected decline in the growth rate of
    revenues without a corresponding and timely reduction in expense
    growth or a failure to manage other aspects of growth could
    materially and adversely affect our operating results.



    
    28



Table of Contents




    In addition, continued expansion could strain our current
    management, financial, manufacturing, and other systems, and may
    require us to implement and improve those systems. If we
    experience any problems with any improvement or expansion of
    these systems, procedures, or controls, or if these systems,
    procedures or controls are not designed, implemented, or
    improved in a cost-effective and timely manner, our operations
    may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any
    failure to implement, improve, and expand such systems,
    procedures, and controls in a timely and efficient manner could
    harm our growth strategy and materially and adversely affect our
    financial condition and ability to achieve our business
    objectives.


 



    As we
    continue to grow our business, we are likely to incur costs
    earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, which could harm
    our operating results. A significant percentage of our expenses
    are fixed, which could materially and adversely affect our net
    income.


 


    We are increasing our investment in engineering, sales, service
    support, and other functions to grow our business. We are likely
    to recognize the costs associated with these increased
    investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits and
    the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop
    more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business.


 


    Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to
    future sales, and a significant percentage of our expenses are
    fixed. As a result, if sales levels are below expectations or
    previously higher levels, net income will be disproportionately
    affected in a material and adverse manner.


 



    We
    depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials,
    equipment, and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the
    world. Our business could be materially and adversely affected
    as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts, or other
    catastrophic events.


 


    Any political, military, world health (e.g., SARS, avian flu),
    or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the
    import or export of materials could lead to significant business
    disruptions. Furthermore, any strike, economic failure, or other
    material disruption caused by fire, floods, hurricanes, power
    loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins,
    and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to
    conduct business. If such disruptions result in cancellations of
    customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic
    activity or corporate spending on information technology, or
    directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial, and
    logistics functions, our results of operations and financial
    condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition,
    our headquarters are located in Northern California, an area
    susceptible to earthquakes. If any significant disaster were to
    occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired.


 



    We
    depend on attracting and retaining qualified technical and sales
    personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain such
    personnel, our operating results could be materially and
    adversely impacted.


 


    Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to
    identify, attract, motivate, and retain qualified technical and
    sales personnel. Because our future success is dependent on our
    ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we
    are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract,
    motivate, and retain qualified engineers with the requisite
    education, background, and industry experience. Competition for
    qualified engineers, particularly in Silicon Valley, can be
    intense. The loss of the services of a significant number of our
    engineers or salespeople could be disruptive to our development
    efforts or business relationships and could materially and
    adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Undetected
    software errors, hardware errors, or failures found in new
    products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of
    our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our
    revenues. Product quality problems could lead to reduced
    revenue, gross margins, and net income.


 


    Our products may contain undetected software errors, hardware
    errors, or failures when first introduced or as new versions are
    released. Despite testing by us and by current and potential
    customers, errors may not be found in



    
    29



Table of Contents




    new products until after commencement of commercial shipments,
    resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could
    materially and adversely affect our operating results.


 


    If we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a
    failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal
    from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory
    costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could
    have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and net income.


 


    In addition, we may be subject to losses that may result or are
    alleged to result from defects in our products, which could
    subject us to claims for damages, including consequential
    damages. Based on our historical experience, we believe that the
    risk of exposure to product liability claims is currently low.
    However, should we experience increased exposure to product
    liability claims, our business could be adversely impacted.


 



    We are
    exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims
    and protection of intellectual property rights, which could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business.
    Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal
    business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal
    proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution
    of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, operating results, or financial condition.


 


    If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be
    subject to increased competition that could materially and
    adversely affect our operating results. Our success depends
    significantly upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a
    combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets,
    confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents
    to protect our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our
    software, documentation, and other written materials under trade
    secret, copyright, and patent laws, which afford only limited
    protection. Some U.S. trademarks and some
    U.S.-registered
    trademarks are registered internationally as well. We will
    continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks
    as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality
    agreements with our employees and with our resellers, strategic
    partners, and customers. We currently have multiple
    U.S. and international patent applications pending and
    multiple U.S. patents issued. The pending applications may
    not be approved, and if patents are issued, such patents may be
    challenged. If such challenges are brought, the patents may be
    invalidated. We cannot assure you that we will develop
    proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, that
    any issued patent will provide us with any competitive
    advantages or will not be challenged by third parties, or that
    the patents of others will not materially and adversely affect
    our ability to do business.


 


    Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary
    technology. Any such litigation may be time consuming and
    costly. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights,
    unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products
    or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
    In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect
    proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the
    U.S.. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our
    proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will
    not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our
    products, or design around patents issued to us or other
    intellectual property rights of ours.


 


    We are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. We
    may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing
    third parties’ intellectual property rights. Third parties
    may in the future claim infringement by us with respect to
    current or future products, patents, trademarks, or other
    proprietary rights. We expect that companies in the appliance
    market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as
    the number of products and competitors in our industry segment
    grows and the functionality of products in different industry
    segments overlaps. Any such claims could be time consuming,
    result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays,
    require us to redesign our products, or require us to enter into
    royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially
    and adversely affect our operating results. Such royalty or
    licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms
    acceptable to us or at all.



    
    30



Table of Contents





    Our
    business is subject to increasingly complex corporate
    governance, public disclosure, accounting, and tax requirements
    that have increased both our costs and the risk of
    noncompliance.


 


    Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to
    certain rules and regulations of federal, state, and financial
    market exchange entities charged with the protection of
    investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are
    publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and NASDAQ, have
    implemented new requirements and regulations and continue
    developing additional regulations and requirements in response
    to recent corporate scandals and laws enacted by Congress, most
    notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply
    with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to
    continue resulting in, increased general and administrative
    expenses and diversion of management time and attention from
    revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.


 


    We have recently completed our evaluation of our internal
    controls over financial reporting as required by
    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although our
    assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion
    that as of April 27, 2007, our internal controls over
    financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the
    outcome of our testing in future periods. If our internal
    controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and
    reputation could be harmed. We may incur additional expenses and
    commitment of management’s time in connection with further
    evaluations, either of which could materially increase our
    operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net income.


 


    Because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are
    subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their
    lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve
    over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and
    governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing
    uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs
    necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and
    governance practices.


 



    Our
    ability to forecast earnings is limited by the impact of new
    accounting requirements such as
    SFAS No. 123R.


 


    The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires companies to
    recognize the fair value of stock options and other share-based
    payment compensation to employees as compensation expense in the
    statement of income. Option pricing models require the input of
    highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock
    price volatility, expected life, and forfeiture rate. We have
    chosen to base our estimate of future volatility using the
    implied volatility of traded options to purchase the
    Company’s common stock as permitted by
    SAB No. 107. As of April 29, 2006, the
    contractual life of our stock options was shortened to seven
    years from ten years for options issued on or after this date,
    and to the extent that the shorter life changes employees’
    exercise behavior, it may change the expected term of an option
    going forward. SFAS No. 123R requires us to use
    estimated forfeitures, and therefore the adoption of
    SFAS No. 123R could have a material impact on the
    timing of and, based on the accuracy of estimates of future
    actual forfeitures, the amount of stock-based compensation
    expense. Given the unpredictable nature of the “Black
    Scholes” variables and other management assumptions such as
    number of options to be granted, underlying strike price, and
    associated income tax impacts, it is very difficult to estimate
    stock-based compensation expense for any given quarter or year.
    Any changes in these highly subjective assumptions may
    significantly impact our ability to make accurate forecasts of
    future earnings and volatility of our stock price. If another
    party asserts that the fair value of our employee stock options
    is misstated, securities class action litigation could be
    brought against us, or the market price of our common stock
    could decline, or both could occur. As a result, we could incur
    significant losses, and our operating results may be below our
    expectations and those of investors and stock market analysts.


 



    The
    U.S. government has contributed to our revenue growth and has
    become an important customer for us.


 


    The U.S. government has become an important customer for
    the storage market and for us; however, government demand is
    unpredictable, and there is no guarantee of future revenue
    growth from the U.S. government. Government agencies are
    subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that
    could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in IT
    spending on infrastructures. If the government or individual
    agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital
    spending pattern, our financial results may be harmed. We cannot
    assure you that revenue from the U.S. government will
    continue to grow in the future.



    
    31



Table of Contents




    The General Services Administration (“GSA”) is
    currently auditing our records under the schedule contracts it
    had with us to verify our compliance with various contract
    provisions. If the audit determines that we did not comply with
    such provisions, we may be required to pay the GSA a potential
    settlement. The exact date for completion of the audit and the
    subsequent negotiation process is unknown and may not be
    concluded for some time. Our management does not believe, based
    upon information currently known to us that the final resolution
    of our audit will have a material adverse effect upon our
    consolidated financial position and the results of operations
    and cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B