Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The following risk factors and other information included in
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
    described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks
    and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently
    deem less significant may also impair our business operations.
    Please see page 3 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for additional discussion of these  





    
    11



Table of Contents





    forward-looking
    statements. If any of the events or circumstances described in
    the following risk factors actually occurs, our business,
    operating results, and financial condition could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    Our
    operating results may be adversely affected by uncertain
    economic and market conditions.


 


    We are subject to the effects of general global economic and
    market conditions. Challenging economic conditions worldwide
    have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the computer,
    storage, and networking industries at large, as well as the
    information technology (“IT”) market, resulting in:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Reduced demand for our products as a result of constraints on IT
    related spending by our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased price competition for our products from competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Deferment of purchases and orders by customers due to budgetary
    constraints or changes in current or planned utilization of our
    systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risk of excess and obsolete inventories;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risk of supply constraints:




 



     
        • 

    
    Excess facilities costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenues;




 



     
        • 

    
    Negative impacts from increased financial pressures on
    customers, distributors and resellers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Negative impacts from increased financial pressures on key
    suppliers or contract manufacturers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Potential discontinuance of product lines or businesses and
    related asset impairments.





 


    Any of the above mentioned factors could have a material and
    adverse effect on our business and financial performance.


 



    Our
    quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely
    impact our common stock price.


 


    We believe that
    period-to-period
    comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily
    meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future
    performance. Our operating results have in the past, and will
    continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of
    numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more
    pronounced fluctuations during times of economic volatility.
    These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part
    due to changes in general economic conditions and specific
    economic conditions in the storage and data management market;




 



     
        • 

    
    A shift in federal government spending patterns;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and
    reduced visibility into our customers’ spending plans and
    associated revenues;




 



     
        • 

    
    The level of price and product competition in our target product
    markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    The impact of economic uncertainty on our customers’
    budgets and IT spending capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and
    purchase commitments;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers, and industry
    consolidation in our supply base, which could subject us to
    periodic
    supply-and-demand,
    price rigidity, and quality issues with our components;




 



     
        • 

    
    The timing of bookings, the cancellation of significant orders
    and the management of our backlog;




 



     
        • 

    
    Product configuration and mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    The extent to which our customers renew their service and
    maintenance contracts with us;







    
    12



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues
    in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in
    revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the
    latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal
    government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of
    its orders;




 



     
        • 

    
    Linearity, such as our historical intraquarter bookings and
    revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each
    quarter’s total bookings and related revenue occur in the
    last month of the quarter;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements and introductions of, and transitions to, new
    products by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or
    product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and
    enhancements in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our levels of expenditure on research and development and sales
    and marketing programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to effectively manage our operating expenses;




 



     
        • 

    
    Adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates in the
    countries in which we do business;




 



     
        • 

    
    The dilutive impact of our $1.265 billion of 1.75%
    convertible senior notes due June 2013 (the “Notes”)
    and related warrants on our earnings per share;




 



     
        • 

    
    Excess or inadequate facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing
    from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining
    the values of certain assets (including the amounts of valuation
    allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our
    consolidated financial statements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we
    continue to enhance and scale our system infrastructure; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting
    rules, such as the increased use of fair value measures, changes
    in accounting standards related to revenue recognition, and the
    potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare
    financial statements in accordance with International Financial
    Reporting Standards (IFRS).





 


    Due to such factors, operating results for a future period are
    difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not
    necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future
    periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors
    discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
    It is possible that in one or more quarters our results may fall
    below our forecasts and the expectations of public market
    analysts and investors. In such event, the trading price of our
    common stock would likely decrease.


 



    Our
    revenue for a particular period is difficult to forecast, and a
    shortfall in revenue may harm our business and our operating
    results.


 


    Our revenues for a particular period are difficult to forecast,
    especially in times of economic uncertainty. Our revenues are
    also difficult to forecast because the storage and data
    management market is rapidly evolving, and our sales cycle
    varies substantially from customer to customer. New or
    additional product introductions also increase the complexities
    of forecasting revenues.


 


    We derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from
    orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings typically follow
    intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end
    of the quarter. If we do not achieve bookings in the latter part
    of a quarter consistent with our quarterly targets, our
    financial results will be adversely impacted. Additionally, due
    to the complexities associated with revenue recognition, we may
    not accurately forecast our non-deferred and deferred revenues,
    which could adversely impact our results of operations.


 


    We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry
    practice, to forecast bookings and trends in our business. Sales
    personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate
    when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount
    of the sale and the products or services to be sold. These
    estimates are aggregated periodically to





    
    13



Table of Contents





    generate a bookings pipeline. Our pipeline estimates may prove
    to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer
    period of time, in part because the “conversion rate”
    of the pipeline into revenues varies from customer to customer,
    can be difficult to estimate, and requires management judgment,
    and also because customers’ purchasing decisions are
    subject to delay, reduction or cancellation. Small deviations
    from our forecasted conversion rate may result in inaccurate
    plans and budgets and could materially and adversely impact our
    business or our planned results of operations.


 


    Economic uncertainties have caused, and may in the future again
    cause, consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases
    in response to tighter budgets, credit, decreased cash
    availability and declining customer confidence. Accordingly,
    future demand for our products could differ from our current
    expectations.


 



    We
    have experienced periods of alternating growth and decline in
    revenues and operating expenses. If we are not able to
    successfully manage these fluctuations, our business, financial
    condition and results of operations could be significantly
    impacted.


 


    Changing market conditions and economic uncertainty create a
    challenging operating environment for our business. It is
    critical that we maintain appropriate alignment between our cost
    structure and our expected growth and revenues, while at the
    same time, continue to make strategic investments for future
    growth.


 


    Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to
    future revenues, and a significant percentage of our expenses
    are fixed. We have a limited ability to quickly or significantly
    reduce our fixed costs, and if revenue levels are below our
    expectations, operating results will be adversely impacted.
    During periods of uneven growth, we may incur costs before we
    realize the anticipated related benefits, which could harm our
    operating results. We have made, and will continue to make,
    significant investments in engineering, sales, service and
    support, marketing programs and other functions to support and
    grow our business. We are likely to recognize the costs
    associated with these investments earlier than some of the
    related anticipated benefits (revenue growth), and the return on
    these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than
    we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and
    financial condition.


 


    Conversely, if we are unable to effectively manage our resources
    and capacity during periods of increasing demand for our
    products, we could also experience an adverse impact to our
    business, operating results and financial condition. If the
    storage and data management market fails to grow, or grows
    slower than we expect, our revenues will be adversely affected.
    Also, even if IT spending increases, our revenues may not grow
    at the same pace.


 



    Our
    gross margins have varied over time and may continue to vary,
    and such variation may make it more difficult to forecast our
    earnings.


 


    Our total gross margins are impacted by the mix of product,
    software entitlements and maintenance and services revenues.


 


    Our product gross margins have been and may continue to be
    affected by a variety of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Demand for storage and data management products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives, discount levels,
    and price competition;




 



     
        • 

    
    Direct versus indirect and OEM sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix
    of configurations within products;




 



     
        • 

    
    The mix of sales to commercial and U.S. government sector
    end users;




 



     
        • 

    
    The timing and amount of revenue recognized and deferred;




 



     
        • 

    
    New product introductions and enhancements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Licensing and royalty arrangements;







    
    14



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Excess inventory levels or purchase commitments as a result of
    changes in demand forecasts or last time buy purchases;




 



     
        • 

    
    Possible product and software defects as we transition our
    products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The cost of components, contract manufacturing costs, quality,
    warranty, and freight.





 


    Changes in software entitlements and maintenance gross margins
    may result from various factors, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The size of the installed base of products under support
    contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    The timing of technical support service contract renewals;




 



     
        • 

    
    Demand for and the timing of delivery of upgrades; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The level of spending on our customer support infrastructure.





 


    Changes in service gross margins may result from various
    factors, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The mix of customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    The size and timing of service contract renewals;




 



     
        • 

    
    Spares stocking requirements to support new product
    introductions;




 



     
        • 

    
    The volume, cost and use of outside partners to deliver support
    services on our behalf; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Product quality and serviceability issues.





 


    Due to such factors, gross margins are subject to variations
    from period to period and are difficult to predict.


 



    An
    increase in competition and industry consolidation could
    materially and adversely affect our operating
    results.


 


    The storage and data management markets are intensely
    competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing
    technology. In the storage market, our primary and near-line
    storage system products and our associated software portfolio
    compete primarily with storage system products and data
    management software from EMC, Hitachi Data Systems, HP, IBM, and
    Oracle Corporation, through its acquisition of Sun Microsystems.
    In addition, Dell, Inc. is a competitor in the storage
    marketplace through its business arrangement with EMC, which
    allows Dell to resell EMC storage hardware and software
    products, as well as through Dell’s acquisition of
    EqualLogic, through which Dell offers low-priced storage
    solutions. In the secondary storage market, which includes the
    disk-to-disk
    backup, compliance and business continuity segments, our
    solutions compete primarily against products from EMC and Oracle
    Corporation, through its acquisition of Sun Microsystems.


 


    There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our
    markets for several years. For example, in January 2010, Oracle
    Corporation, one of our strategic partners, completed its
    acquisition of Sun Microsystems, one of our competitors; in
    addition, in July 2009, EMC, one of our competitors, acquired
    Data Domain. We expect this trend to continue as companies
    attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an
    evolving industry and as companies become unable to maintain
    their competitive positions or continue operations. We believe
    that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors
    that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for
    customers. In addition, current and potential competitors have
    established or may establish strategic alliances among
    themselves or with third parties, including some of our
    partners. For example, in November 2009, Cisco and EMC together
    with VMware announced a Virtual Computing Environment coalition.
    It is possible that new competitors or alliances among
    competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market
    share. We may not be able to compete successfully against
    current or future competitors. Competitive pressures we face
    could materially and adversely affect our business and operating
    results.




    
    15



Table of Contents






    Disruption
    of or changes in our distribution model could harm our
    sales.


 


    If we fail to develop and maintain strong relationships with our
    distributors, or if our distributors fail to effectively manage
    the sale of our products or services on our behalf, our revenues
    and gross margins could be adversely affected.


 


    We market and sell our storage data management solutions
    directly through our worldwide sales force and indirectly
    through channel partners such as value-added resellers, systems
    integrators, distributors, OEMs and strategic business partners,
    and we derive a significant portion of our revenues from these
    indirect channels. During fiscal 2010, revenues generated from
    sales from our indirect channel distribution accounted for 69%
    of our revenues. In order for us to maintain or increase our
    revenues, we must effectively manage our relationships with
    channel partners.


 


    Several factors could result in disruption of or changes in our
    indirect channel distribution model, which could materially harm
    our revenues and gross margins, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our indirect channel partners may compete directly with other
    channel partners or with our direct sales force. Due to these
    conflicts, our indirect channel partners could stop or reduce
    their efforts in marketing our products.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our indirect channel partners may demand that we absorb a
    greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to
    bear;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our indirect channel partners may have insufficient financial
    resources and may not be able to withstand changes and
    challenges in business conditions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Our indirect channel partners’ financial condition or
    operations may weaken.





 


    There is no assurance that we will be able to attract new
    indirect channel partners, retain these indirect channel
    partners or that we will be able to secure additional or
    replacement indirect channel partners in the future, especially
    in light of changes in end customer demand patterns and changes
    in available and competing technologies from competitors. The
    loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners in a
    given geographic area could harm our operating results within
    that area, as qualifying and developing new indirect channel
    partners typically requires a significant investment of time and
    resources before acceptable levels of productivity are met. Our
    inability to effectively establish, train, retain and manage our
    distribution channel could harm our sales.


 


    In addition, we depend on our indirect channel partners to
    comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the
    jurisdictions in which they operate. Their failure to do so
    could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and
    operating results.


 



    Our
    OEM relationship may not continue to generate significant
    revenues.


 


    In April 2005, we entered into an OEM agreement with IBM, which
    enables IBM to sell IBM branded solutions based on NetApp
    unified solutions, including
    NearStore®

    and V-Series systems, as well as associated software offerings.
    While this agreement is an element of our strategy to expand our
    reach into more customers and countries, we do not have an
    exclusive relationship with IBM, and there is no minimum
    commitment for any given period of time; therefore, this
    relationship may not continue to generate significant revenues.
    In addition, we have no control over the products that IBM
    selects to sell, or its release schedule and timing of those
    products; nor do we control its pricing.


 


    In the event that sales through our OEM relationship increase,
    we may experience distribution channel conflicts between our
    direct sales force and the OEM or among our channel partners. If
    we fail to minimize channel conflicts, or if our OEM
    relationship does not continue to generate significant revenues,
    our operating results and financial condition could be harmed.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    A
    portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring
    purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. A
    loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties
    has and in the future could negatively affect our
    revenues.


 


    During fiscal 2010, sales to distributors Arrow and Avnet
    accounted for approximately 14% and 11%, respectively of our net
    revenues. The loss of orders from these, or any of our more
    significant customers, strategic partners, distributors or
    resellers could cause our revenues and profitability to suffer.
    Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a variety of
    factors, including the cost-effectiveness, reliability,
    scalability and comprehensiveness of our product offerings, and
    our ability to address customer demands.


 


    We also have an agreement with Fujitsu Technology Solutions
    (“Fujitsu”), which enables Fujitsu to lease, sell,
    market and resell NetApp products to end users and Fujitsu sales
    partners worldwide and to integrate NetApp products into Fujitsu
    bundled offerings, as well as to market NetApp’s support
    services.


 


    We generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with
    our customers for an extended period of time, and thus we may
    not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from
    these customers, resellers or distributors. For example, our
    reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases
    and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop
    purchasing and marketing our products at any time.


 


    Unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact our
    operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, resellers
    and distributors, or the ability of our customers to obtain
    credit to finance purchases of our products. If the uncertainty
    in the economy continues, or conditions deteriorate, and our
    sales decline, our financial condition and operating results
    could be adversely impacted.


 


    Because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a
    substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or
    unexpected returns from customers and resellers, or the loss of
    any significant customer or reseller, could harm our business.
    We expect that our largest customers in the future could be
    different from our largest customers today. End users could stop
    purchasing and indirect channel partners could stop marketing
    our products at any time. The loss of one or more of our key
    indirect channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a
    number of large orders each quarter could harm our operating
    results. In addition, a change in the pricing practices of one
    or more of our large customers could adversely affect our
    revenues and gross margins.


 



    The
    U.S. government has contributed to our revenue growth and has
    become an important customer for us. Future revenue from the
    U.S. government is subject to shifts in government spending
    patterns. A decrease in government demand for our products could
    materially affect our revenues. In addition, our business could
    be adversely affected as a result of future examinations by the
    U.S. government.


 


    The U.S. government has become an important customer for
    the storage and data management market and for us; however,
    government demand is unpredictable, and there can be no
    assurance that we will maintain or grow our revenues from the
    U.S. government. Government agencies are subject to
    budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead
    to delays or decreased capital expenditures in IT spending. If
    the government or individual agencies within the government
    reduce or shift their capital spending patterns, our revenues
    and operating results may be harmed.


 


    In addition, selling our products to the U.S. government
    also subjects us to certain regulatory requirements. For
    example, in April 2009, we entered into a settlement agreement
    with the United States of America, acting through the United
    States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and on behalf of
    the General Services Administration (the “GSA”), under
    which we paid the United States $128.0 million, plus interest of
    $0.7 million, related to a dispute regarding our discount
    practices and compliance with the price reduction clause
    provisions of GSA contracts between August 1997 and February
    2005. The failure to comply with U.S. government regulatory
    requirements could subject us to fines and other penalties,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues,
    operating results and financial position.


 



    If we
    are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop
    new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenues
    may be impacted negatively.


 


    An element of our strategy to increase revenues is to
    strategically partner with major third-party software and
    hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products
    and also co-market our products with the vendors. We have
    significant partner relationships with database, business
    application, backup management and server





    
    17



Table of Contents





    virtualization companies, including Microsoft, Oracle, SAP,
    Symantec and VMware. In addition, in November 2009, we announced
    our intention to expand our relationship with Fujitsu, and in
    January 2010, we announced an expansion of our collaboration
    with Cisco and VMware, including a cooperative support
    arrangement. A number of these strategic partners are industry
    leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage
    and data management market. There is intense competition for
    attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish
    relationships with these or other partners, these partnerships
    may not generate significant revenues or may not continue to be
    in effect for any specific period of time. If these
    relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could
    experience lower than expected revenue growth, suffer delays in
    product development, or other operational difficulties.


 


    In addition, some of our partners, including Oracle, Cisco and
    VMware, are also partnering with other storage vendors which may
    increase the availability of competing solutions, harm our
    ability to continue as the vendor of choice for those partners
    and harm our ability to grow our business with those partners.


 


    We intend to continue to establish and maintain business
    relationships with technology companies to expand our marketing
    reach and accelerate the development of our storage and data
    management solutions. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in
    developing new relationships or maintaining our existing
    relationships, our future revenues and operating results could
    be impacted negatively. In addition, the loss of a strategic
    partner could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and
    operating results.


 



    Our
    future financial performance depends on growth in the storage
    and data management markets. If the performance of these markets
    does not meet the expectations upon which we calculate and
    forecast our revenues, our operating results will be materially
    and adversely impacted.


 


    All of our products address the storage and data management
    markets. Accordingly, our future financial performance will
    depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data
    management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging
    standards in these markets. The markets for storage and data
    management have been recently adversely impacted by the global
    economic uncertainty, and as a result of continued uncertainty,
    the markets may not grow as anticipated or may decline.


 


    Additionally, emerging standards in these markets may adversely
    affect the
    UNIX®,

    Windows®

    and the World Wide Web server markets upon which we depend. For
    example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to
    customers within the financial services, healthcare,
    pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that
    are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with
    respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as
    Rule 17(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended) in the United States and in the other countries in
    which we operate. If our products do not meet and continue to
    comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this
    regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will
    not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our
    product offerings in these market and geographical segments at
    the rates which we have forecasted.


 



    Supply
    chain issues, including financial problems of contract
    manufacturers or component suppliers, or a shortage of adequate
    component supply or manufacturing capacity that increases our
    costs or causes a delay in our ability to fulfill orders, could
    have a material adverse impact on our business and operating
    results, and our failure to estimate customer demand properly
    may result in excess or obsolete component supply, which could
    adversely affect our gross margins.


 


    The fact that we do not own or operate our manufacturing
    facilities and supply chain exposes us to risks, including
    reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and
    product supply, which could have a material adverse impact on
    the supply of our products and on our business and operating
    results. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for components
    utilized in the assembly of our products, which has and could
    subject us to future periodic supply constraints and price
    rigidity.


 


    Financial problems of either contract manufacturers, component
    suppliers or other parties in our supply chain and reservation
    of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other
    companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit
    supply or increase costs of our products. Qualifying a new
    contract manufacturer and





    
    18



Table of Contents





    commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming,
    and disruption or termination of manufacturing capacity from any
    contract manufacturer could negatively impact our ability to
    manufacture and sell our products.


 


    We intend to regularly introduce new products and product
    enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume
    production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and
    suppliers. A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant
    increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to
    adequately procure inventory by our contract manufacturers; a
    failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our
    requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in
    demand for our products could materially adversely affect our
    business, operating results, and financial condition and could
    materially damage customer relationships. Furthermore, as a
    result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers,
    we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are
    higher than those available in the current market. In the event
    that we become committed to purchase components at prices in
    excess of the current market price when the components are
    actually used, our gross margins could decrease. As the demand
    for our products has increased, we have experienced, and may
    continue to experience tightening of supply of some components
    leading to longer lead times and component supply constraints,
    which has and in the future could continue to result in the
    delay of shipments.


 



    We are
    exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers,
    resellers, and distributors, especially during times of economic
    uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in
    material losses.


 


    Most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with
    typical payment terms of 30 days. While we monitor
    individual customer payment capability in granting such open
    credit arrangements, and seek to limit such open credit to
    amounts we believe are reasonable, we may experience losses due
    to a customer’s inability to pay.


 


    Beyond our open credit arrangements, we also have recourse and
    nonrecourse customer financing leasing arrangements using third
    party leasing companies. Under the terms of recourse leases,
    which are treated as off-balance sheet arrangements, we remain
    liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the
    third party leasing company in the event of end-user customer
    default. We also offer financing arrangements whereby the
    end-user customer pays a fixed monthly amount plus a variable
    amount based on actual storage capacity used. These arrangements
    subject us to additional risk around revenue recognition and
    profitability due to the uncertainties associated with the
    variable portion of the arrangements. In addition, from time to
    time we provide guarantees for a portion of other financing
    arrangements under which we could be called upon to make
    payments to our funding parties in the event of nonpayment by
    end-user customers.


 


    We expect demand for customer financing to continue. During
    periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks
    from our customers increases. In addition, our exposure to
    credit risks of our customers may increase further if our
    customers and their customers or their lease financing sources
    are adversely affected by global economic conditions.


 


    In the past, there have been bankruptcies by our customers, both
    who have open credit and who have lease financing arrangements
    with us, causing us to incur bad debt charges, and, in the case
    of financing arrangements, a loss of revenues. We may be subject
    to similar losses in future periods. Any future losses could
    harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our
    operating results and financial condition. Additionally, to the
    extent that the recent turmoil in the credit markets makes it
    more difficult for customers to obtain open credit or lease
    financing, those customers’ ability to purchase our product
    could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material
    adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results.


 



    The
    market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly
    in the past and will likely continue to do so in the
    future.


 


    The market price for our common stock has experienced
    substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could
    cause substantial fluctuation in the future. These factors
    include but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in our operating results compared to prior periods
    and forecasts;




 



     
        • 

    
    Variations between our operating results and either the guidance
    we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of
    securities analysts;




 



     
        • 

    
    Industry consolidation and the resulting perception of increased
    competition;







    
    19



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Economic developments in the storage and data management market
    as a whole;




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by
    investors to be comparable to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers,
    channel and strategic partners;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of the completion or dissolution of strategic
    alliances within the industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    Dilutive impacts of our convertible Notes and related warrants;




 



     
        • 

    
    International conflicts and acts of terrorism;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of new products, applications, or product
    enhancements by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other
    regulatory bodies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    General market conditions, including recent global or regional
    economic uncertainties.





 


    In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that
    has particularly affected the market prices of the equity
    securities of many technology companies. Certain macroeconomic
    factors such as changes in interest rates, the market climate
    for the technology sector, and levels of corporate spending on
    IT, could continue to have an impact on the trading price of our
    stock, and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate
    significantly in the future.


 



    Changes
    in market conditions have led, and in the future could lead, to
    charges related to the discontinuance of certain of our products
    and asset impairments.


 


    In response to changes in economic conditions and market
    demands, we may decide to strategically realign our resources
    and consider cost containment measures including restructuring,
    disposing of, or otherwise discontinuing certain products. Any
    decision to limit investment in, dispose of, or otherwise exit
    products may result in the recording of charges to earnings,
    including inventory and technology-related or other intangible
    asset write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to
    consolidation of excess facilities, cancellation penalties or
    claims from third parties who were resellers or users of
    discontinued products, which would harm our operating results.
    Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate
    recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including
    purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such
    assessments and decisions. Additionally, we are required to
    perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis, and
    between annual tests in certain circumstances when impairment
    indicators exist or if certain events or changes in
    circumstances have occurred. Future goodwill impairment tests
    may result in charges to earnings, which could materially harm
    our operating results.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to
    technological change, if our new products do not achieve market
    acceptance, if we fail to manage the interoperability and
    transition between our new and old products, or if we cannot
    provide the expected level of service and support for our new
    products, our operating results could be materially and
    adversely affected.


 


    Our future growth depends upon the successful development and
    introduction of new hardware and software products. Due to the
    complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances
    and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to
    produce new products, such products are subject to significant
    technical risks. In addition, our new products must respond to
    technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are
    unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and
    introduce new products in a timely manner in response to
    changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such
    products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results
    could be materially and adversely affected. New or additional
    product introductions increase the complexities of forecasting
    revenues, and subject us to additional financial and operational
    risks. If they are not managed effectively, we could experience
    material risks to our operations, financial condition and
    business model.


 


    As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully
    manage the interoperability and transition from older products
    in order to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering
    patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories,
    and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered
    to meet customers’ demands.




    
    20



Table of Contents





    As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase
    demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed
    to additional competition. We may not be able to provide
    products, service and support to effectively compete for these
    market opportunities.


 



    Risks
    inherent in our international operations could have a material
    adverse effect on our business.


 


    A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from sales
    outside of the United States. During fiscal 2010, our
    international revenues accounted for 50% of our total revenues.
    A substantial portion of our products are manufactured outside
    of the U.S., and we have research and development and service
    centers overseas. Accordingly, our business and our future
    operating results could be adversely affected by a variety of
    factors affecting our international operations, some of which
    are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or
    economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade
    protection measures and other regulatory requirements,
    government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and
    international conflicts. In addition, we may not be able to
    maintain or increase international market demand for our
    products.


 


    We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency
    exchange rates as a result of our international operations.
    These exposures may change over time as business practices
    evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial results and cash flows. Our international sales are
    denominated in U.S. dollars and in foreign currencies. An
    increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to
    foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and
    therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets.
    Conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in
    lower
    U.S.-based
    revenues. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar
    relative to foreign currencies could increase operating expenses
    in foreign markets. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging
    market currencies, which can experience extreme volatility. We
    utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign
    currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities
    as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows on a
    short-term basis. All balance sheet hedges are marked to market
    through earnings every quarter. The time-value component of our
    cash flow hedges is recorded in earnings while all other gains
    and losses are marked to market through other comprehensive
    income until forecasted transactions occur, at which time such
    realized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. These
    hedges attempt to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate,
    the impact of currency exchange movements. Factors that could
    have a negative impact on the effectiveness of our hedging
    program include inaccuracies in forecasting, widening interest
    rate differentials, and volatility in the foreign exchange
    market. Our hedging strategies may not be successful and
    currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material
    adverse effect on our operating results.


 


    Certain United States Government export restrictions impede our
    ability to sell to certain end users certain of our products.
    The United States, through the Bureau of Industry Security,
    places restrictions on the export of certain encryption
    technology. These restrictions may include: the requirement to
    have a license to export the technology; the requirement to have
    software licenses approved before export is allowed; and
    outright bans on the licensing of certain encryption technology
    to particular end users or to all end users in a particular
    country. Certain of our products are subject to various levels
    of export restrictions. These export restrictions could
    negatively impact our business. Our international operations are
    subject to other risks, including general import/export
    restrictions, regulations related to data privacy, and other
    complex rules and regulations under which we must conduct
    business in foreign countries. We are also subject to the
    potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy,
    misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our
    intellectual property rights than U.S. law. Such factors
    could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results
    and financial position.


 


    Additional risks inherent in our international business
    activities generally include, among others, longer accounts
    receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing
    international operations.


 


    Moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with
    developing economies, it is common to engage in business
    practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us,
    such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement
    policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these
    laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those
    companies to which we outsource certain of our business
    operations, may take actions in violation of these policies. Any
    such violation could subject us to fines and other penalties,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition or results of operations.




    
    21



Table of Contents






    Changes
    in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from
    examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our
    results.


 


    Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are
    taxed at lower rates as compared to the U.S. statutory tax
    rate;




 



     
        • 

    
    Material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as
    a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses by
    tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective
    tax rates by tax jurisdiction that differ from our estimates;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changing tax laws or related interpretations, accounting
    standards, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax
    jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements
    of certain tax rulings;




 



     
        • 

    
    An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes,
    including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs
    of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment
    of goodwill;




 



     
        • 

    
    The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes related to our ability to ultimately realize future
    benefits attributed to our deferred tax assets, including those
    related to
    other-than-temporary
    impairments;




 



     
        • 

    
    Tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related
    tax interest or penalties could significantly affect our income
    tax provision for the period in which the settlements take
    place; and




 



     
        • 

    
    A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign
    earnings.





 


    We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our
    non-U.S. customers.
    These benefits are contingent upon existing tax regulations in
    the United States and in the countries in which our
    international operations are located. Future changes in domestic
    or international tax regulations could adversely affect our
    ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. We have not
    provided for United States federal and state income taxes or
    foreign withholding taxes that may result on future remittances
    of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Obama
    administration has announced several proposals to reform United
    States tax rules, including proposals that may result in a
    reduction or elimination of the deferral of United States income
    tax on our future unrepatriated earnings. Should such
    anti-deferral provisions be enacted, our effective tax rate
    could be adversely affected.


 


    We are currently undergoing federal income tax audits in the
    United States and several foreign tax jurisdictions. The rights
    to some of our intellectual property (“IP”) are owned
    by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made
    between U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the
    use of this IP in a qualified cost sharing arrangement. In
    recent years, several other U.S. companies have had their
    foreign IP arrangements challenged as part of IRS examinations,
    which has resulted in material proposed assessments
    and/or
    litigation with respect to those companies.


 


    During fiscal year 2009, we received Notices of Proposed
    Adjustments from the IRS in connection with a federal income tax
    audit of our fiscal 2003 and 2004 tax returns. We filed a
    protest with the IRS in response to the Notices of Proposed
    Adjustments and subsequently received a rebuttal from the IRS
    examination team in response to our protest. We recently were
    informed by the IRS that this audit will proceed to the IRS
    Appeals level for further administrative review. The Notices of
    Proposed Adjustments in this audit focus primarily on issues of
    the timing and the amount of income recognized and deductions
    taken during the audit years and on the level of cost
    allocations made to foreign operations during the audit years.


 


    The IRS recently commenced the examination of our fiscal 2005
    through 2007 federal income tax returns, and in addition, the
    California Franchise Tax Board has notified us of their intent
    to examine our fiscal 2007 and 2008 California tax returns. The
    scope of the IRS and California Franchise Tax Board examinations
    are unclear at this time.


 


    If the ultimate determination of income taxes assessed under the
    current IRS audits or under audits being conducted in any of the
    other tax jurisdictions in which we operate results in an amount
    in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for,
    our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could
    be adversely affected.




    
    22



Table of Contents





    Our international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling
    concluded in the Netherlands which expires on April 30,
    2015 and results in a lower level of earnings subject to tax in
    the Netherlands. If we are unable to negotiate a similar tax
    ruling upon expiration of the current ruling, our effective tax
    rate could increase and our operating results could be adversely
    affected. Our effective tax rate could also be adversely
    affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing
    law or regulations, which in turn would negatively impact our
    operating and financial results as a whole. Our effective tax
    rate could also be adversely affected if there is a change in
    international operations and how the operations are managed and
    structured. The price of our common stock could decline to the
    extent that our financial results are materially affected by an
    adverse change in our effective tax rate.


 



    Our
    leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations and our earnings per
    share.


 


    As a result of the sale of our Notes, we have a greater amount
    of long-term debt than we have maintained in the past. In
    addition, we have various synthetic lease arrangements related
    to some of our facilities at our corporate headquarters in
    Sunnyvale, California, and, subject to the restrictions in our
    existing and any future financing agreements, we may incur
    additional debt. Our maintenance of higher levels of
    indebtedness could have adverse consequences including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Impacting our ability to satisfy our obligations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Increasing the portion of our cash flows from operations may
    have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may
    not be available for operations, working capital, capital
    expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or
    other purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the
    future;




 



     
        • 

    
    Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and industry; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Making us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our
    industry or the economy in general.





 


    Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will
    depend on our future performance, which will be affected by
    financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We
    will not be able to control many of these factors, such as
    economic conditions and governmental regulations. Furthermore,
    our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable
    us to meet our expenses and service our debt. As a result, we
    may be required to repatriate funds from our foreign
    subsidiaries which could result in a significant tax liability
    to us. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from
    operations, or if we are unable to repatriate sufficient or any
    funds from our foreign subsidiaries, in order to meet our
    expenses and debt service obligations, we may need to enter into
    new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds, or we
    may be required to raise additional funds through other means.
    If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for
    any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if
    funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. If we fail
    to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such
    debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our
    other outstanding indebtedness.


 



    The
    note hedges and warrant transactions that we entered into in
    connection with the sale of the Notes may affect the trading
    price of our common stock.


 


    In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into
    privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with
    certain option counterparties (the “Counterparties”),
    which are expected to offset the potential dilution to our
    common stock upon any conversion of the Notes. At the same time,
    we also entered into warrant transactions with the
    Counterparties pursuant to which we may issue shares of our
    common stock above a certain strike price. In connection with
    these hedging transactions, the Counterparties may have entered
    into various
    over-the-counter
    derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or
    purchased shares of our common stock in secondary market
    transactions at or following the pricing of the Notes. Such
    activities may have had the effect of increasing the price of
    our common stock. The Counterparties are likely to modify their
    hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or
    maturity of the Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our
    common stock or entering into other derivative transactions.
    Additionally, these transactions may expose us to counterparty
    credit risk for nonperformance. The effect, if any, of any of
    these transactions and activities on the market price of our
    common stock or the Notes will depend, in part, on market
    conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any





    
    23



Table of Contents





    of these activities could adversely affect the value of our
    common stock. In addition, if our stock price exceeds the strike
    price for the warrants, there could be additional dilution to
    our shareholders, which could adversely affect the value of our
    common stock.


 


    Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives, Inc. (“Lehman OTC”)
    was the counterparty to 20% of our Note hedges. The bankruptcy
    filing by Lehman OTC on October 3, 2008 constituted an
    “event of default” under the hedge transaction. In
    April 2010, we terminated the hedge transaction with Lehman OTC
    in exchange for an unsecured bankruptcy claim, which we
    subsequently sold to a third party for approximately
    $14 million. Because we have decided not to replace the
    hedge, we are subject to potential dilution on the 20% unhedged
    portion of our Notes upon conversion if on the date of
    conversion the per-share market price of our common stock
    exceeds the conversion price of $31.85. The terms of the Notes,
    the rights of the holders of the Notes and other counterparties
    to Note hedges and warrants were not affected by the termination
    of this hedge.


 


    The price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of
    our common stock by investors who view the Notes as a more
    attractive means of equity participation in our company and by
    hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop
    involving our common stock by holders of the Notes. The hedging
    or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the
    Notes and warrants.


 



    Future
    issuances of common stock related to our Notes, warrants, stock
    options, restricted stock units, and our Employee Stock Purchase
    Plan may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock
    and the Notes.


 


    The conversion of some or all of our outstanding Notes will
    dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the
    extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the Notes. We
    will satisfy our obligation upon conversion by delivering cash
    for the principal amount of the Notes and shares of common
    stock, if any, to the extent the conversion value exceeds the
    principal amount. Any new issuance of equity securities,
    including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the Notes or
    the exercise of related warrants which are not offset by our
    Note hedges, could dilute the interests of our then-existing
    stockholders, including holders who receive shares upon
    conversion of their Notes, and could substantially decrease the
    trading price of our common stock and the Notes. In addition,
    any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon
    such conversion or the exercise of warrants could adversely
    affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.


 


    As of April 30, 2010, we had options to purchase
    approximately 35 million shares of our common stock
    outstanding and a total of approximately 9 million
    restricted shares and restricted stock units outstanding. If all
    of these outstanding options were exercised, and all of the
    outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock units vested,
    the proceeds to the Company would average approximately $18 per
    share. We also had 15.5 million shares of our common stock
    reserved for issuance under our stock plans with respect to
    equity awards that have not been granted. The exercise of all of
    the outstanding options
    and/or the
    vesting of all outstanding restricted shares and restricted
    stock units would dilute the interests of our then-existing
    stockholders, and any sales in the public market of the common
    stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect the
    trading price of our common stock.


 


    In addition, we have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP)
    under which employees are entitled to purchase shares of our
    common stock at 85% of the fair market value at certain
    specified dates over a two-year period. As of April 30,
    2010, we had approximately 5.0 million shares of our common
    stock available for issuance under the ESPP. The issuance of
    shares under the ESPP would dilute the interests of our
    then-existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market
    of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely
    affect the trading price of our common stock.


 


    We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of
    reasons, including to finance our operations related to business
    strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic
    alliances or other transactions), to increase our capital, to
    adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations
    upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options upon
    conversion of the Notes, or for other reasons.




    
    24



Table of Contents






    We are
    exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio
    investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments
    could harm our financial results.


 


    At April 30, 2010, we had $3.8 billion in cash, cash
    equivalents,
    available-for-sale
    securities and restricted cash and investments. We invest our
    cash in a variety of financial instruments, consisting
    principally of investments in U.S. Treasury securities,
    commercial paper, U.S. government agency bonds, corporate
    bonds, auction rate securities, certificates of deposit, and
    money market funds. These investments are subject to general
    credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have
    been exacerbated by unusual events such as the financial and
    credit crisis, and bankruptcy filings in the United States which
    have affected various sectors of the financial markets and led
    to global credit and liquidity issues. These securities are
    generally classified as
    “available-for-sale”
    and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance
    sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as
    a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),
    net of tax.


 


    Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest
    earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed
    rate debt securities may have their market value adversely
    impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate
    securities may produce less income than expected if interest
    rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment
    income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest
    rates. Currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments
    in our investment portfolio. We may suffer losses if forced to
    sell securities that have experienced a decline in market value
    because of changes in interest rates. Currently, we do not use
    financial derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure.


 


    The fair value of our investments may change significantly due
    to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. For
    instance, as a result of the bankruptcy filing of Lehman
    Brothers, which occurred during fiscal 2009, we recorded an
    other-than-temporary
    impairment charge of $11.8 million on our corporate bonds
    related to investments in Lehman Brothers securities and
    approximately $9.3 million on our investments in the
    Primary Fund that held Lehman Brothers investments. Any
    investment securities that we hold or the issues of such
    securities could be subject to review for possible downgrade.
    Any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an
    additional decline in the estimated fair value of our
    investments. Changes in the various assumptions used to value
    these securities and any increase in the markets’ perceived
    risk associated with such investments may also result in a
    decline in estimated fair value. If such investments suffer
    market price declines, as we experienced with some of our
    investments during fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the
    decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost
    basis when the decline is judged to be
    other-than-temporary.


 


    On occasion, we make strategic investments in other companies,
    including private equity funds, which may decline in value
    and/or not
    meet desired objectives. The success of these investments
    depends on various factors over which we may have limited or no
    control. As of April 30, 2010, we had an investment with
    the carrying value of $1.4 million in a private equity
    fund. The risks to our strategic investment portfolio may be
    exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic
    conditions and, as a result, the value of the investment
    portfolio could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment
    charges.


 


    In the event of adverse conditions in the credit and capital
    markets, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could
    determine that some or all of our investments have experienced
    an
    other-than-temporary
    decline in fair value, requiring further impairments, which
    could adversely impact our financial position and operating
    results.


 



    A
    significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents balances
    are held overseas. If we are not able to generate sufficient
    cash domestically in order to fund our U.S. operations and
    strategic opportunities, and to service our debt, we may incur a
    significant tax liability in order to repatriate the overseas
    cash balances, or we may need to raise additional capital in the
    future.


 


    A portion of our earnings which is generated from our
    international operations is held and invested by certain of our
    foreign subsidiaries. These amounts are not freely available for
    dividend repatriation to the United States without triggering
    significant adverse tax consequences, which could adversely
    affect our financial results. As a result, if the cash generated
    by our domestic operations is not sufficient to fund our
    domestic operations, our broader corporate initiatives such as
    stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other strategic
    opportunities, and to service our outstanding indebtedness, we
    may need to raise additional funds through public or private
    debt or equity financings, or we may need to obtain new credit
    facilities to the extent we choose not to repatriate our
    overseas cash. Such





    
    25



Table of Contents





    additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to
    us, or at all, and any new equity financings or offerings would
    dilute our current stockholders’ ownership. Furthermore,
    lenders, particularly in light of the current challenges in the
    credit markets, may not agree to extend us new, additional or
    continuing credit. If adequate funds are not available, or are
    not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to
    repatriate our foreign cash and incur a significant tax expense
    or we may not be able to take advantage of strategic
    opportunities, develop new products, respond to competitive
    pressures or repay our outstanding indebtedness. In any such
    case, our business, operating results or financial condition
    could be adversely impacted.


 



    Our
    synthetic leases are off-balance sheet arrangements that could
    negatively affect our financial condition and operating results.
    We have invested substantial resources in new facilities and
    physical infrastructure, which will increase our fixed costs.
    Our operating results could be harmed if our business does not
    grow proportionately to our increase in fixed
    costs.


 


    We have various synthetic lease arrangements with BNP Paribas
    Leasing Corporation as lessor (“BBPPLC”) for our
    headquarters office buildings and land in Sunnyvale, California.
    These synthetic leases qualify for operating lease accounting
    treatment under the accounting guidance for leases and are not
    considered variable interest entities under applicable
    accounting guidance. Therefore, we do not include the properties
    or the associated debt on our condensed consolidated balance
    sheet. However, if circumstances were to change regarding our or
    BNPPLC’s ownership of the properties, or in BNPPLC’s
    overall portfolio, we could be required to consolidate the
    entity, the leased facilities and the associated debt.


 


    Our future minimum lease payments under these synthetic leases
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business by restricting the funds available for use in
    addressing such changes. If we are unable to grow our business
    and revenues proportionately to our increase in fixed costs, our
    operating results will be harmed. If we elect not to purchase
    the properties at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed
    a minimum residual value to BNPPLC. If the fair value of the
    properties declines below that guaranteed minimum residual
    value, our residual value guarantee would require us to pay the
    difference to BNPPLC. As of April 30, 2010, the estimated
    fair value of the properties was approximately
    $36.9 million below the guaranteed minimum residual value,
    which we will accrue over the remaining term of the respective
    leases. Any further decline in the fair value of the properties
    could adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and
    operating results.


 


    As a result of excess capacity in our Sunnyvale facilities,
    certain of our facilities subject to synthetic lease
    arrangements have been subleased or are vacant. These subleases
    will expire through 2012 and we may not be able to generate
    sufficient sublease income to cover the carrying costs of these
    facilities. In addition, we may experience changes in our
    operations in the future that could result in additional excess
    capacity and vacant facilities. We will continue to be
    responsible for all carrying costs of these facilities under
    operating leases until such time as we can sublease these
    facilities or terminate the applicable leases based on the
    contractual terms of the operating lease agreements, and these
    costs may have an adverse effect on our business, operating
    results and financial condition.


 



    We
    have credit exposure to our hedging
    counterparties.


 


    In order to minimize volatility in earnings associated with
    fluctuations in the value of foreign currency relative to the
    U.S. Dollar, we utilize forward and option contracts to
    hedge our exposure to foreign currencies. As a result of
    entering into these hedging contracts with major financial
    institutions, we may be subject to counterparty nonperformance
    risk. Should there be a counterparty default, we could be
    exposed to the net losses on the hedged arrangements or be
    unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions.


 



    We are
    subject to restrictive and financial covenants in our synthetic
    lease arrangements. The restrictive covenants may restrict our
    ability to operate our business.


 


    Our ongoing extension of credit under our synthetic lease
    arrangements are subject to continued compliance with financial
    covenants. If we do not comply with these restrictive and
    financial covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements,
    we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts or
    repurchase the properties which are subject to the synthetic
    lease arrangements. If we lose access to the synthetic lease
    arrangements, we may not be able to obtain alternative financing
    on acceptable terms, which could limit our operating flexibility.




    
    26



Table of Contents





    The agreements governing our synthetic lease arrangements
    contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to operate
    our business, including restrictions on our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Incur indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    Incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level;




 



     
        • 

    
    Grant liens;




 



     
        • 

    
    Sell all or substantially all our assets:




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into certain mergers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Change our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into swap agreements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into transactions with our affiliates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into certain restrictive agreements.





 


    As a result of these restrictive covenants, our ability to
    respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to
    obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. We
    may also be prevented from engaging in transactions that might
    otherwise be beneficial to us, such as strategic acquisitions or
    joint ventures.


 


    Our failure to comply with the restrictive and financial
    covenants could result in a default under our synthetic lease
    arrangements, which would give the counterparties thereto the
    ability to exercise certain rights, including the right to
    accelerate the amounts owed thereunder and to terminate the
    arrangement. In addition, our failure to comply with these
    covenants and the acceleration of amounts owed under synthetic
    lease arrangements could result in a default under the Notes,
    which could permit the holders to accelerate the Notes. If all
    of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds
    available to repay such debt.


 



    Funds
    associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not
    be accessible for more than 12 months and our auction rate
    securities may experience further
    other-than-temporary
    declines in value, which would adversely affect our
    earnings.


 


    Auction rate securities (ARSs) held by us are securities with
    long-term nominal maturities, which, in accordance with
    investment policy guidelines, had credit ratings of AAA and Aaa
    at time of purchase. Interest rates for ARS are reset through a
    “Dutch auction” each month, which prior to February
    2008 had provided a liquid market for these securities.


 


    All of our ARSs are backed by pools of student loans guaranteed
    by the U.S. Department of Education, and we believe the
    credit quality of these securities is high based on this
    guarantee. However, liquidity issues in the global credit
    markets resulted in the failure of auctions for certain of our
    ARS investments, with a par value of $73.8 million. For
    each failed auction, the interest rate resets to a maximum rate
    defined for each security, and the ARS continue to pay interest
    in accordance with their terms, although the principal
    associated with the ARS will not be accessible until there is a
    successful auction or such time as other markets for ARS
    investments develop or the final maturity of the individual
    securities.


 


    As of April 30, 2010, we determined there was a total
    decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of
    approximately $4.7 million, of which we have recorded
    cumulative temporary impairment charges of $2.6 million,
    and $2.1 million was recognized as an
    other-than-temporary
    impairment charge. In addition, we have classified all of our
    auction rate securities as long-term assets in our consolidated
    balance sheets at April 30, 2010 as our ability to
    liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is
    uncertain. Although we currently have the ability and intent to
    hold these ARS investments until recovery in market value or
    until maturity, if current market conditions deteriorate
    further, or the anticipated recovery in market liquidity does
    not occur, we may be required to record additional impairment
    charges in future quarters.




    
    27



Table of Contents






    We may
    need to undertake cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring
    initiatives in the future.


 


    We have previously recognized restructuring charges related to
    initiatives to realign our business strategies and resize our
    business in response to economic and market conditions,
    including those announced in February 2009 and December 2008. We
    may undertake future cost-reduction initiatives and
    restructuring plans that may adversely impact our operations and
    we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior
    or any future restructurings.


 



    Our
    acquisitions may not provide the anticipated benefits and may
    disrupt our existing business.


 


    As part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating
    opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would
    complement our current products, expand the breadth of our
    markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. The success of
    our acquisitions is impacted by a number of factors, and may be
    subject to the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The inability to successfully integrate the operations,
    technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    The diversion of management’s attention from normal daily
    operations of the business;




 



     
        • 

    
    The loss of key employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    Substantial transaction costs and accounting charges; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Exposure to litigation related to acquisitions.





 


    Any future acquisitions may also result in risks to our existing
    business, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Dilution of our current stockholders’ percentage ownership
    to the extent we issue new equity;




 



     
        • 

    
    Assumption of additional liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Incurrence of additional debt or a decline in available cash;




 



     
        • 

    
    Adverse effects to our financial statements, such as the need to
    make large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of
    restructuring and other related expenses;




 



     
        • 

    
    Liability for intellectual property infringement and other
    litigation claims, which we may or may not be aware of at the
    time of acquisition; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Creation of goodwill or other intangible assets that could
    result in significant future amortization expense or impairment
    charges.





 


    The failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of an
    acquisition may also result in impairment charges for goodwill
    or acquired intangibles. For example, in fiscal 2009, we
    announced our decision to cease the development and availability
    of our SMOS product, which was originally acquired through our
    acquisition of Topio, Inc. in fiscal 2007, resulting in the
    impairment of acquired intangibles related to such acquisition.
    Additional or realized risks of this nature could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 


    The occurrence of any of the above risks could seriously harm
    our business.


 



    If we
    are unable to establish fair value for any undelivered element
    of a sales arrangement, all or a portion of the revenues
    relating to the arrangement could be deferred to future
    periods.


 


    In the course of our sales efforts, we often enter into multiple
    element arrangements that include our systems and one or more of
    the following undelivered software-related elements: software
    entitlements and maintenance, premium hardware maintenance, and
    storage review services. If we are required to change the
    pricing of our software-related elements through discounting, or
    otherwise introduce variability in the pricing of such elements,
    we may be unable to maintain Vendor Specific Objective Evidence
    of fair value of the undelivered elements of the arrangement,
    and would therefore be required to delay the recognition of all
    or a portion of the related arrangement. A delay in the
    recognition of revenues may cause fluctuations in our financial
    results and may adversely affect our operating margins.




    
    28



Table of Contents






    We are
    continually seeking ways to make our cost structure and business
    processes more efficient, including moving activities from
    higher-cost to lower-cost owned locations, as well as
    outsourcing certain business process functions. Problems with
    the execution of these activities could have an adverse effect
    on our business or results of operations.


 


    We continuously seek to make our cost structure and business
    processes more efficient. We are focused on increasing workforce
    flexibility and scalability, and improving overall
    competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well
    as external talent and skills worldwide. For example, certain
    engineering activities and projects that were formerly performed
    in the U.S. have been moved to lower cost international
    locations and we rely on partners or third party service
    providers for the provision of certain business process
    functions and activities in IT, human resources and accounting.


 


    The challenges involved with these initiatives include executing
    business functions in accordance with local laws and other
    obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and
    procedures. We are also subject to increased business continuity
    risks as we increase our reliance on such parties. For example,
    we may no longer be able to exercise control over some aspects
    of the future development, support or maintenance of outsourced
    operations and processes, including the management and internal
    controls associated with those outsourced business operations
    and processes, which could adversely affect our business. If we
    are unable to effectively utilize or integrate and interoperate
    with external resources or if our partners or third party
    service providers experience business difficulties or are unable
    to provide business services as anticipated, we may need to seek
    alternative service providers or resume providing these business
    processes internally, which could be costly and time-consuming
    and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In
    addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of our
    business process improvement initiatives.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to the provision of employee health
    care benefits.


 


    We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance for
    workers’ compensation coverage and health care plans. We
    record expenses under these plans based on estimates of the
    number and costs of expected claims, administrative costs and
    stop-loss premiums. These estimates are then adjusted each year
    to reflect actual costs incurred. Actual costs under these plans
    are subject to variability depending primarily upon participant
    enrollment and demographics, the actual number and costs of
    claims made and whether and how much the stop-loss insurance we
    purchase covers the cost of these claims. In the event that our
    cost estimates differ from actual costs, we could incur
    additional unplanned health care costs which could adversely
    impact our financial condition.


 


    In March 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation
    under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (HR
    3590) and the Health Care Education and Affordability
    Reconciliation Act (HR 4872) (collectively, the
    “Acts”) was passed and signed into law. Among other
    things, the health reform legislation includes guaranteed
    coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition
    exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the
    extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and
    significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits.
    Provisions of the health reform legislation become effective at
    various dates over the next several years. The Department of
    Health and Human Services, the National Association of Insurance
    Commissioners, the Department of Labor and the Treasury
    Department have yet to issue necessary enabling regulations and
    guidance with respect to the health care reform legislation.


 


    Due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform
    legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and
    interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the
    implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of
    the health reform legislation on our business over the coming
    years. Possible adverse affects of the health reform legislation
    include reduced revenues, increased costs, exposure to expanded
    liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we
    conduct business or risk of loss of business. In addition, our
    results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could
    be materially adversely affected.


 



    We
    depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. If we
    are unable to attract and retain such personnel, our operating
    results could be materially and adversely
    impacted.


 


    Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to
    identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel.
    Because our future success is dependent on our ability to
    continue to enhance and introduce new





    
    29



Table of Contents





    products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to
    identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified engineers with
    the requisite education, background and industry experience.
    Competition for qualified employees, particularly in Silicon
    Valley, can be intense. The loss of the services of a
    significant number of our employees, particularly our engineers,
    salespeople and key managers, could be disruptive to our
    development efforts or business relationships and could
    materially and adversely affect our operating results.


 


    Additionally, a component of our strategy to hire and retain
    personnel consists of long-term compensation in the form of
    equity-based grants. We face increased risk of the inability to
    continue to offer equity if we are unable to obtain shareholder
    approval in light of increased shareholder activism and
    heightened focus on corporate compensation practices. Such
    inability could adversely impact our ability to continue to
    attract and retain employees.


 



    Our
    business could be materially and adversely affected as a result
    of a natural disaster, terrorist acts or other catastrophic
    events.


 


    We depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials,
    equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the
    world. Any political, military, terrorism, global trade, world
    health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts
    the import or export of materials could lead to significant
    business disruptions. Furthermore, any strike, economic failure
    or other material disruption caused by fire, floods, hurricanes,
    volcanoes, power loss, power shortages, environmental disasters,
    telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could
    also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. If such
    disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or
    contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or
    corporate spending on information technology, or directly impact
    our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions,
    our results of operations and financial condition could be
    materially adversely affected. In addition, our headquarters are
    located in Northern California, an area susceptible to
    earthquakes. If any significant disaster were to occur, our
    ability to operate our business could be impaired.


 



    Undetected
    software errors, hardware errors, or failures found in new
    products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of
    our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our
    revenues. Product quality problems could lead to reduced
    revenues, gross margins and operating results.


 


    Our products may contain undetected software errors, hardware
    errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are
    released. Despite testing by us and by current and potential
    customers, errors may not be found in new products until after
    commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or
    delay in market acceptance, which could materially and adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    In addition, if we fail to remedy a product defect, we may
    experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent
    withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation,
    inventory costs or product reengineering expenses, and these
    occurrences could have a material impact on our revenues, gross
    margins and operating results. We may be subject to losses that
    may result from or are alleged to result from defects in our
    products, which could subject us to claims for damages,
    including consequential damages.


 



    We are
    exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims
    and protection of intellectual property rights, which could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business,
    including our ongoing litigation with Sun Microsystems which was
    recently acquired by Oracle Corporation. Litigation can be
    expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations.
    Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult
    to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating
    results, or financial condition.


 


    If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be
    subject to increased competition that could materially and
    adversely affect our operating results. Our success depends
    significantly upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a
    combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets,
    confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents
    to protect our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our
    software, documentation and other written materials under trade
    secret, copyright and patent laws, which afford only limited
    protection.





    
    30



Table of Contents





    Some of our U.S. trademarks are registered internationally
    as well. We will continue to evaluate the registration of
    additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into
    confidentiality agreements with our employees and with our
    resellers, strategic partners and customers. We currently have
    multiple U.S. and international patent applications pending
    and multiple U.S. patents issued. The pending applications
    may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be
    challenged. If such challenges are brought, the patents may be
    invalidated. We may not be able to develop proprietary products
    or technologies that are patentable, or where any issued patent
    will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be
    challenged by third parties. Further, the patents of others may
    materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. In
    addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark
    registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and
    competitive position.


 


    Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary
    technology. Any such litigation may be time-consuming and
    costly. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights,
    unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products
    or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In
    addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect
    proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the
    United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights
    may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop
    similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around
    patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of
    ours.


 


    We are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. We
    may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing
    third parties’ intellectual property rights. Third parties
    may in the future, claim infringement by us with respect to
    current or future products, patents, trademarks or other
    proprietary rights. We expect that companies in the network
    storage and data management market will increasingly be subject
    to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors
    in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products
    in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims could
    be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product
    shipment delays, require us to redesign our products or enter
    into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could
    materially and adversely affect our operating results. Such
    royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be
    available on terms acceptable to us or at all.


 



    Our
    business could be materially adversely affected by changes in
    regulations or standards regarding energy efficiency of our
    products and climate change issues.


 


    We continually seek ways to increase the energy efficiency of
    our products. Recent analyses have estimated the amount of
    global carbon emissions that are due to information technology
    products. As a result, governmental and non-governmental
    organizations have turned their attention to development of
    regulations and standards to drive technological improvements
    and reduce such amount of carbon emissions. There is a risk that
    the development of these standards will not fully address the
    complexity of the technology developed by the IT industry or
    will favor certain technological approaches. Depending on the
    regulations or standards that are ultimately adopted, compliance
    could adversely affect our business, financial condition or
    operating results.


 


    Climate change issues, energy usage and emissions controls may
    result in new environmental legislation and regulations, at any
    or all of the international, federal and state levels, that may
    unfavorably impact us, our suppliers, and our customers in how
    we conduct our business including the design, development, and
    manufacturing of our products. This could cause us to incur
    additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental
    regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from
    our customers, suppliers or both incurring additional compliance
    costs that get passed on to us. These costs may adversely impact
    our operations and financial condition.


 


    Our business and results of operations could be adversely
    impacted as a consequence of regulations or business trends such
    as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Decreased demand for storage products that produce significant
    greenhouse gases




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased demand for storage products that produce lower
    emissions and are more energy efficient, and increased
    competition to develop such products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Reputational risk based on negative public perception of
    publicly reported data on our greenhouse gas emissions.







    
    31



Table of Contents




 



    Our
    business is subject to increasingly complex corporate
    governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements
    that have increased both our costs and the risk of
    noncompliance.


 


    Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to
    certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial
    market exchange entities charged with the protection of
    investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are
    publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and NASDAQ, have
    implemented requirements and regulations and continue developing
    additional regulations and requirements in response to corporate
    scandals and laws enacted by Congress, most notably the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these
    regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue
    resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and
    diversion of management time and attention from
    revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.


 


    We completed our evaluation of our internal controls over
    financial reporting for the fiscal year ended April 30,
    2010 as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002. Although our assessment, testing and evaluation
    resulted in our conclusion that as of April 30, 2010, our
    internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we
    cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If
    our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our
    business and reputation could be harmed. We may incur additional
    expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection
    with further evaluations, both of which could materially
    increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our
    operating results.


 


    Because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are
    subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their
    lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve
    over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and
    governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing
    uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs
    necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and
    governance practices.


 



    Changes
    in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected
    fluctuations and affect our reported results of
    operations.


 


    A change in accounting standards or practices and varying
    interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as
    changes to standards related to revenue recognition standards
    recently adopted by the FASB, the increased use of fair value
    measure, and the potential requirement that
    U.S. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance
    with International Financial Reporting Standards
    (“IFRS”), could have a significant effect on our
    reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B