Item 1A “Risk Factors — We are exposed
    to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and
    protection of intellectual property rights, which could
    adversely affect our operating results.”


 



    Environmental
    Disclosure


 


    Various federal state and local provisions regulate the use and
    discharge of certain hazardous materials used in our
    manufacturing. Failure to comply with environmental regulations
    in the future could cause us to incur substantial costs or
    subject us to business interruptions. We believe we are fully
    compliant with all applicable environmental laws.


 



    Working
    Capital Practices


 


    Information about our working capital practices is included in
    Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”
    under the heading “Financial Condition, Capital Resources
    and Liquidity” and is incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Government
    Contracts


 


    We derive revenues from contracts with the United States
    government, state and local governments and their respective
    agencies. Our sales to government clients subject us to risks
    including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions
    and penalties. For more information, refer to Item 1A
    “Risk Factor — The U.S. government has
    contributed to our revenue growth and has become an important
    customer for us.” In addition, please refer to Item 3.
    “Legal Proceedings” for information related to our GSA
    audit.


 



    Foreign
    Operations and Export Sales


 


    Information about our foreign operations and export sales is
    included in Note 9 — “Segment, Geographic,
    and Customer Information” and Item 1A “Risk
    Factors — Risks inherent in our international
    operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating
    results” and is incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Employees


 


    As of April 25, 2008, we had 7,645 employees. Of the
    total, 4,279 were in sales and marketing, 2,385 in research and
    development, 843 in finance and administration, and 138 in
    manufacturing. Our future performance depends in significant
    part on our key technical and senior management personnel, none
    of whom are bound by an employment agreement. We have never had
    a work stoppage and consider relations with our employees to be
    good.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Executive
    Officers


 


    Our executive officers and their ages as of May 25, 2008,
    are as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    Daniel J. Warmenhoven



 

 


    57

 


 


    Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board





    Thomas F. Mendoza



 

 


    57

 


 


    Vice Chairman





    Thomas Georgens



 

 


    48

 


 


    President and Chief Operating Officer, Board Member





    Steven J. Gomo



 

 


    56

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer





    Robert E. Salmon



 

 


    47

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Field Operations








 


    Daniel J. Warmenhoven joined NetApp in October 1994 as
    president and chief executive officer, and has been a member of
    the Board of Directors since October 1994. Mr. Warmenhoven
    currently serves as chief executive officer and as of March 2008
    he was appointed chairman of the Board of Directors. Prior to
    joining the Company, Mr. Warmenhoven served in various
    capacities, including president, chief executive officer, and
    chairman of the Board of Directors of Network Equipment
    Technologies, Inc., a telecommunications equipment company, from
    November 1989 to January 1994. Prior to Network Equipment
    Technologies, Mr. Warmenhoven held executive and managerial
    positions at Hewlett-Packard from 1985 to 1989 and IBM
    Corporation from 1972 to 1985. Mr. Warmenhoven is a
    Director of Aruba Networks, Inc. Mr. Warmenhoven holds a
    B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Princeton University.


 


    Thomas F. Mendoza was appointed vice chairman in March
    2008. Mr. Mendoza joined the company in May 1994 and served
    as president from October 2000 to March 2008. Prior to March
    2000, he served in various capacities at NetApp including senior
    vice president, worldwide sales and marketing, senior vice
    president, worldwide sales and vice president, North American
    sales. Mr. Mendoza has more than 30 years of
    experience as a high-technology executive and has held executive
    positions at Auspex Systems, Inc. and Stratus Technologies, Inc.
    He holds a B.A. degree in economics from Notre Dame and is an
    alumnus of Stanford University’s Executive Business
    Program. In September 2000, the University of Notre Dame renamed
    its business school the Mendoza College of Business in honor of
    an endowment from Tom and his wife, Kathy.


 


    Thomas Georgens is the president and chief operating
    officer of the Company and is responsible for all product
    operations and field operations worldwide. Mr. Georgens has
    also been a member of the Board of Directors at NetApp since
    March 2008. Mr. Georgens joined the Company in 2005 and
    served as the Company’s executive vice president of product
    operations from January 2007 until February 2008. Prior to
    January 2007, Mr. Georgens served as the Company’s
    executive vice president and general manager of enterprise
    storage systems. Before joining the Company, Mr. Georgens
    spent nine years at Engenio, a subsidiary of LSI Logic, the last
    two years as chief executive officer. He has also served in
    various other positions, including president of LSI Logic
    Storage Systems and executive vice president of LSI Logic. Prior
    to Engenio, Mr. Georgens spent 11 years at EMC in a
    variety of engineering and marketing positions.
    Mr. Georgens holds a B.S. degree and an M.E. degree in
    Computer and Systems Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic
    Institute as well as an M.B.A. degree from Babson College.


 


    Steven J. Gomo joined NetApp in August 2002 as senior
    vice president of finance and chief financial officer. He was
    appointed executive vice president of finance and chief
    financial officer in October 2004. Prior to joining the Company,
    he served as chief financial officer for Gemplus International
    S.A., headquartered in Luxembourg from November 2000 to April
    2002 and as chief financial officer of Silicon Graphics, Inc.,
    from February 1998 to August 2000. Prior to February 1998, he
    worked at Hewlett-Packard Company for 24 years in various
    positions, including financial management, corporate finance,
    general management, and manufacturing. Mr. Gomo currently
    serves on the board of SanDisk Corporation. Mr. Gomo holds
    an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University and a B.S. degree in
    business administration from Oregon State University.


 


    Robert E. Salmon joined NetApp in January 1994 and was
    appointed executive vice president, field operations in December
    2005. Mr. Salmon has served as the Company’s executive
    vice president of worldwide sales since September 2004. From
    August 2003 to September 2004, Mr. Salmon served as the
    Company’s senior vice president of worldwide sales and from
    May 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Salmon served as the
    Company’s vice president of



    
    11



Table of Contents




    North American sales. Mr. Salmon joined the Company in 1994
    after nearly ten years with Sun Microsystems and Data General
    Corporation. Mr. Salmon graduated from California State
    University, Chico with a B.S. degree in computer science.


 



    Additional
    Information


 


    Our Internet address is www.netapp.com. We make available
    through our Internet Web site our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the
    SEC.


 


    The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
    SEC. The public also may read and copy these filings at the
    SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
    N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information about this Public
    Reference Room is available by calling (800) SEC-0330.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The following risk factors and other information included in
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
    described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks
    and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently
    deem less significant may also impair our business operations.
    Please see page 2 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for additional discussion of these forward-looking statements.
    If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business,
    operating results, and financial condition could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    Factors
    beyond our control could cause our quarterly results to
    fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock
    price.


 


    We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of
    operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be
    relied upon as indicators of future performance. Many of the
    factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to
    fluctuate significantly in the future are beyond our control and
    include, but are not limited to, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changes in general economic conditions and specific economic
    conditions in the computer, storage, and networking industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    General decrease in global corporate spending on information
    technology leading to a decline in demand for our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    A shift in federal government spending patterns;




 



     
        • 

    
    The possible effects of terrorist activity and international
    conflicts, which could lead to business interruptions and
    difficulty in forecasting;




 



     
        • 

    
    The level of competition in our target product markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers due to industry
    consolidation, which could subject us to periodic
    supply-and-demand,
    price rigidity, and quality issues with our components;




 



     
        • 

    
    The size, timing and cancellation of significant orders;




 



     
        • 

    
    Product configuration and mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    The extent to which our customers renew their service and
    maintenance contracts with us;




 



     
        • 

    
    Market acceptance of new products and product enhancements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements and introductions of, and transitions to, new
    products by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or
    product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors;






    
    12



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changes in our pricing in response to competitive pricing
    actions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and
    enhancements in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    Supply constraints;




 



     
        • 

    
    Technological changes in our target product markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    The levels of expenditure on research and development and sales
    and marketing programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Excess or inadequate facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we
    continue to enhance and adapt our system infrastructure to
    accommodate future growth;




 



     
        • 

    
    Future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting
    policies and estimates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Seasonality; for example, as the size of our business has grown,
    we have begun to see a seasonal decline in revenues in the first
    quarter of our fiscal year. Sales to the U.S. government
    also tend to be stronger during our second fiscal quarter,
    concurrent with the end of the U.S. federal
    government’s fiscal year end in September.





 


    In addition, sales for any future quarter may vary and
    accordingly be different from what we forecast. We manufacture
    products based on a combination of specific order requirements
    and forecasts of our customer demands. Products are typically
    shipped within one to four weeks following receipt of an order.
    In certain circumstances, customers may cancel or reschedule
    orders without penalty. Product sales are also difficult to
    forecast because the storage and data management market is
    rapidly evolving, and our sales cycle varies substantially from
    customer to customer.


 


    We derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from
    orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings typically follow
    intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end
    of the quarter. If we do not achieve bookings in the latter part
    of a quarter consistent with our quarterly financial targets,
    our financial results will be adversely impacted. If revenues do
    not meet our expectations, our operating profit may be
    negatively impacted because portions of our expenses are fixed
    and difficult to reduce in a short period of time. If our
    revenues are lower than expected, our fixed expenses could
    adversely affect our net income and cash flow until revenues
    increase or until such fixed expenses are reduced to a level
    commensurate with revenues.


 


    Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in one
    or more quarters our results may fall below our forecasts and
    the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In
    such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely
    decrease.


 



    We
    cannot assure you that our OEM relationship with IBM will
    generate significant revenue.


 


    In April 2005, we announced a strategic partner relationship
    with IBM. As part of the relationship, we entered into an OEM
    agreement that enables IBM to sell IBM branded solutions based
    on NetApp unified solutions, including NearStore and the
    V-Series systems, as well as associated software offerings.
    While this agreement is an element of our strategy to expand our
    reach into more customers and countries, we do not have an
    exclusive relationship with IBM, and there is no minimum
    commitment for any given period of time; therefore, we cannot
    assure you that this relationship will contribute any revenue in
    future years. In addition, we have no control over the products
    that IBM selects to sell, or its release schedule and timing of
    those products; nor do we control its pricing. In the event that
    sales through IBM increase, we may experience distribution
    channel conflicts between our direct sales force and IBM or
    among our channel partners. If we fail to minimize channel
    conflicts, our operating results and financial condition could
    be harmed. We cannot assure you that this OEM relationship will
    generate significant revenue or that this strategic partnership
    will continue to be in effect for any specific period of time.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    If we
    are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop
    new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenue may
    be impacted negatively.


 


    An element of our strategy to increase revenue is to
    strategically partner with major third party software and
    hardware vendors that integrate our products into their products
    and also co-market our products with these vendors. We have
    significant partner relationships with database, business
    application, backup management and server virtualization
    companies, including Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, Symantec and
    VMware. A number of these strategic partners are industry
    leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage
    market. There is intense competition for attractive strategic
    partners, and even if we can establish relationships with these
    partners, we cannot assure you that these partnerships will
    generate significant revenue or that the partnerships will
    continue to be in effect for any specific period of time.


 


    We intend to continue to establish and maintain business
    relationships with technology companies to accelerate the
    development and marketing of our storage solutions. To the
    extent that we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships
    and maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenue
    and operating results could be impacted negatively. In addition,
    the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse
    effect on our revenue and earnings.


 



    We
    cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain existing
    resellers and attract new resellers and that channel conflicts
    will not materially adversely affect our channel relationships.
    In addition, we do not have exclusive relationships with our
    resellers and accordingly there is a risk that those resellers
    may give higher priority to products of other suppliers, which
    could materially adversely affect our operating
    results.


 


    We market and sell our storage solutions directly through our
    worldwide sales force and indirectly through channels such as
    value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, OEMs,
    and strategic business partners, and we derive a significant
    portion of our revenue from these indirect channel partners. In
    fiscal 2008, our indirect channels accounted for 63.0% of our
    consolidated revenues.


 


    In order for us to maintain our current revenue sources and
    maintain or increase our revenue, we must effectively manage our
    relationships with these indirect channel partners. To do so, we
    must attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified channel
    partners to successfully market our products. However, because
    we also sell our products directly to customers through our
    sales force, on occasion we compete with our indirect channels
    for sales of our products to our end customers, competition that
    could result in conflicts with these indirect channel partners
    and make it harder for us to attract and retain these indirect
    channel partners. At the same time, our indirect channel
    partners may offer products that are competitive to ours. In
    addition, because our reseller partners generally offer products
    from several different companies, including products of our
    competitors, these resellers may give higher priority to the
    marketing, sales, and support of our competitors’ products
    than ours. If we fail to effectively manage our relationships
    with these indirect channel partners to minimize channel
    conflict and continue to evaluate and meet our indirect sales
    partners’ needs with respect to our products, we will not
    be able to maintain or increase our revenue, which would have a
    materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition
    and results of operations. Additionally, if we do not manage
    distribution of our products and services and support
    effectively, or if our resellers’ financial condition or
    operations weaken, our revenues and gross margins could be
    adversely affected.


 



    The
    U.S. government has contributed to our revenue growth and has
    become an important customer for us. Future revenue from the
    U.S. government is subject to shifts in government spending
    patterns. A decrease in government demand for our products, or
    an adverse outcome in an ongoing investigation by the GSA and
    the Department of Justice, could materially affect our growth
    and result in civil penalties and a loss of
    revenues.


 


    The U.S. government has become an important customer for
    the storage market and for us; however, government demand is
    unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that we will
    maintain or grow our revenue from the U.S. government.
    Government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and
    expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased
    capital expenditures in IT spending. If the government or
    individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their
    capital spending pattern, our financial results may be harmed.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Selling our products to the U.S. government also subjects
    us to certain regulatory requirements. We received a subpoena
    from the Office of Inspector General for the General Services
    Administration (“GSA”) seeking various records
    relating to GSA contracting activity by us during the period
    beginning in 1995 and ending in 2005. The subpoena is part of an
    investigation being conducted by GSA and the Department of
    Justice regarding potential violations of the False Claims Act
    in connection with our GSA contracting activity. The subpoena
    requested a range of documents including documents relating to
    our discount practices and compliance with the price reduction
    clause provisions of its GSA contracts. We are cooperating with
    the investigation and have produced documents and met with the
    Department of Justice on several occasions. Violations of the
    False Claims Act could result in the imposition of a damage
    remedy which includes treble damages plus civil penalties, and
    could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future
    government contracting, any or a combination of which could have
    a material adverse effect on our results of operations or
    financial condition.


 



    The
    market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly
    in the past and will likely continue to do so in the
    future.


 


    The market price for our common stock has experienced
    substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could
    cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These
    factors include but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in our operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    Variations between our operating results and either the guidance
    we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of
    securities analysts;




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by
    investors to be comparable to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections;




 



     
        • 

    
    Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement or other
    regulatory bodies;




 



     
        • 

    
    Economic developments in the storage and data management market
    as a whole;




 



     
        • 

    
    International conflicts and acts of terrorism;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of new products, applications or product
    enhancements by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers and
    channel and strategic partners; and




 



     
        • 

    
    General market conditions.





 


    In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that
    has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities
    of many technology companies. Additionally, certain
    macroeconomic factors such as changes in interest rates, the
    market climate for the technology sector and levels of corporate
    spending on IT could also have an impact on the trading price of
    our stock. As a result, the market price of our common stock may
    fluctuate significantly in the future, and any broad market
    decline, as well as our own operating results, may materially
    and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.


 


    Macroeconomic conditions and an IT spending slowdown as well as
    variations in our expected operating performance may continue to
    cause volatility in our stock price. We are unable to predict
    changes in general economic conditions and whether or to what
    extent global IT spending rates will be affected. Furthermore,
    if there are future reductions in either domestic or
    international IT spending rates, or if IT spending rates do not
    increase, our revenues, operating results, and stock price may
    continue to be adversely affected.


 



    Our
    forecasts of our revenues and earnings outlook may be inaccurate
    and could materially and adversely impact our business or our
    planned results of operations.


 


    Our revenues are difficult to forecast. We use a
    “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to
    forecast revenues and trends in our business. Sales personnel
    monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a
    customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the
    sale and the products or services to be sold. These estimates
    are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our
    pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a
    particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part
    because the “conversion rate” of the pipeline into



    
    15



Table of Contents




    contracts varies from customer to customer, can be difficult to
    estimate, and requires management judgment. Small deviations
    from our forecasted conversion rate may result in inaccurate
    plans and budgets and could materially and adversely impact our
    business or our planned results of operations. In particular, a
    slowdown in IT spending, weak general economic conditions or
    evolving technology can reduce the conversion rate in a
    particular quarter as our customers’ purchasing decisions
    are delayed, reduced in amount, or cancelled.


 


    In addition, we apply the provisions of Statement of Position
    97-2 and
    related interpretations to our product sales, both hardware and
    software, because our software is essential to the performance
    of our hardware. If we are unable to establish fair value for
    undelivered elements of a customer order, revenue relating to
    the entire order may be deferred until the revenue recognition
    criteria for all elements of the customer order are met. This
    could lower our net revenue in one period and increase it in
    future periods, resulting in greater variability in net revenue
    and income both on a period-to-period basis and on an actual
    versus forecast basis.


 



    If we
    are unable to successfully implement our global brand awareness
    campaign, we may not be able to increase our customer base,
    market share, or revenue, and our operating results will be
    adversely affected.


 


    We believe that building our global brand awareness is a key
    factor to the long term success of our business and will be
    crucial in order for us to grow our customer base, increase our
    market share, and accelerate our revenue growth. In order to
    increase this awareness, we launched a new branding campaign in
    March 2008, which includes a new company name, logo, tagline and
    new corporate messaging. We are also increasing our sales
    headcount in order to leverage our brand awareness campaign and
    build demand for our products with both new and existing
    customers. We are currently incurring, and will continue to
    incur, significant expenses as a result of these investments. If
    we are not successful in achieving our desired growth in
    revenue, customers, demand and market share, whether on the time
    line we have forecasted or at all, our operating results will be
    adversely affected.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to
    technological change, if our new products do not achieve market
    acceptance, if we fail to manage the transition between our new
    and old products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of
    service and support for our new products, our operating results
    could be materially and adversely affected.


 


    Our future growth depends upon the successful development and
    introduction of new hardware and software products. Due to the
    complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances
    and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to
    produce new products, such products are subject to significant
    technical risks. In addition, our new products must respond to
    technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are
    unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and
    introduce new products in a timely manner in response to
    changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such
    products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results
    could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, new or
    additional product introductions may also adversely affect our
    sales of existing products, which could also materially and
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully
    manage the transition from older products in order to minimize
    disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive
    levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough
    supplies of new products can be delivered to meet
    customers’ demands.


 


    As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase
    demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed
    to additional competition. We may not be able to provide
    products, service and support to effectively compete for these
    market opportunities. Furthermore, provision of greater levels
    of services may result in a delay in the timing of revenue
    recognition due to the provisions of Statement of Position
    No. 97-2
    and related interpretations.


 



    Our
    gross margins may vary based on the configuration of our product
    and service solutions, and such variation may make it more
    difficult to forecast our earnings.


 


    We derive a significant portion of our sales from the resale of
    disk drives as components of our storage systems, and the resale
    market for disk drives is highly competitive and subject to
    intense pricing pressures. Our sales of disk



    
    16



Table of Contents




    drives generate lower gross margin than those of our storage
    systems. As a result, as we sell more highly configured systems
    with greater disk drive content, overall gross margin may be
    negatively affected.


 


    Our product gross margins have been and may continue to be
    affected by a variety of other factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Demand for storage and data management products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Pricing actions, rebates, initiatives, discount levels and price
    competition;




 



     
        • 

    
    Direct versus indirect and OEM sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    Product and add-on software mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    The mix of services as a percentage of revenue;




 



     
        • 

    
    The mix and average selling prices of products;




 



     
        • 

    
    The mix of disk content;




 



     
        • 

    
    New product introductions and enhancements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Excess inventory purchase commitments as a result of changes in
    demand forecasts and possible product and software defects as we
    transition our products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The cost of components, manufacturing labor, quality, warranty
    and freight.





 


    Changes in service gross margins may result from various factors
    such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Continued investments in our customer support infrastructure;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the mix between technical support services and
    professional services; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The timing of technical support service contract initiations and
    renewals.





 



    An
    increase in competition could materially and adversely affect
    our operating results.


 


    The storage markets are intensely competitive and are
    characterized by rapidly changing technology. In the storage
    market, our primary and nearline storage system products and our
    associated storage software portfolio compete primarily with
    storage system products and data management software from EMC,
    HDS, HP, IBM, and Sun/StorageTek. We also see Dell, Inc. as a
    competitor in the storage marketplace, primarily through its
    business partnership with EMC, which allows Dell to resell EMC
    storage hardware and software products. We have also
    historically encountered less-frequent competition from other
    companies, including LSI Logic. In the secondary storage market,
    which includes the disk-to-disk backup, compliance, and business
    continuity segments, our solutions compete primarily against
    products from EMC and Sun/StorageTek. Our NearStore VTL
    appliances also compete with traditional tape backup solutions
    in the broader data backup/recovery space. Additionally, a
    number of small, new companies are currently attempting to enter
    the storage systems and data management software markets and the
    near-line and NearStore VTL storage markets, some of which may
    become significant competitors in the future.


 


    There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our
    markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as
    companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions
    in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are
    unable to continue operations. We believe that industry
    consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better
    able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. In
    addition, current and potential competitors have established or
    may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with
    third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors
    or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire
    significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be
    able to compete successfully against current or future
    competitors. Competitive pressures we face could materially and
    adversely affect our operating results.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    We
    rely on a limited number of suppliers, and any disruption or
    termination of our supply arrangements could delay shipment of
    our products and could materially and adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    We rely on a limited number of suppliers for components such as
    disk drives, computer boards and microprocessors utilized in the
    assembly of our products. In recent years, rapid industry
    consolidation has led to fewer component suppliers, which could
    subject us to periodic supply constraints and price rigidity.


 


    Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several
    risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required
    components;




 



     
        • 

    
    Supplier capacity constraints;




 



     
        • 

    
    Price increases;




 



     
        • 

    
    Timely delivery; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Component quality.





 


    Component quality risk is particularly significant with respect
    to our suppliers of disk drives. In order to meet product
    performance requirements, we must obtain disk drives of
    extremely high quality and capacity. In addition, there are
    periodic
    supply-and-demand
    issues for disk drives, microprocessors and semiconductor memory
    components, which could result in component shortages, selective
    supply allocations and increased prices of such components. We
    cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain our full
    requirements of such components in the future or that prices of
    such components will not increase. In addition, problems with
    respect to yield and quality of such components and timeliness
    of deliveries could occur. Disruption or termination of the
    supply of these components could delay shipments of our products
    and could materially and adversely affect our operating results.
    Such delays could also damage relationships with current and
    prospective customers and suppliers.


 


    In addition, we license certain technology and software from
    third parties that are incorporated into our products. If we are
    unable to obtain or license the technology and software on a
    timely basis or on acceptable terms, we will not be able to
    deliver products to our customers in a timely manner.


 



    The
    loss of any contract manufacturers or the failure to accurately
    forecast demand for our products or successfully manage our
    relationships with our contract manufacturers could negatively
    impact our ability to manufacture and sell our
    products.


 


    We currently rely on several contract manufacturers to
    manufacture our products in multiple locations around the world.
    Our reliance on our third party contract manufacturers reduces
    our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to
    risks, including reduced control over quality assurance,
    production costs and product supply. If we should fail to
    effectively manage our relationships with our contract
    manufacturers, or if our contract manufacturers experience
    delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control
    problems in their manufacturing operations, our ability to ship
    products to our customers could be impaired, and our competitive
    position and reputation could be harmed. Qualifying a new
    contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is
    expensive and time-consuming. If we are required to change
    contract manufacturers or bring certain manufacturing in-house,
    we may lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. If we
    inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may have
    excess or inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or
    penalties, which could adversely impact our operating results.
    To date, we do not have any significant purchase commitments
    under our agreements with contract manufacturers.


 


    We intend to regularly introduce new products and product
    enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume
    production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and
    suppliers. We may need to increase our material purchases,
    contract manufacturing capacity and quality functions to meet
    anticipated demand. The inability of our contract manufacturers
    to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products or
    their inability to obtain raw materials suitable for our needs
    could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Our
    future financial performance depends on growth in the storage
    and data management markets. If these markets do not continue to
    grow at the rates we expect and upon which we calculate and
    forecast our growth, our operating results will be materially
    and adversely impacted.


 


    All of our products address the storage and data management
    markets. Accordingly, our future financial performance will
    depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data
    management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging
    standards in these markets. We cannot assure you that the
    markets for storage and data management will continue to grow or
    that emerging standards in these markets will not adversely
    affect the growth of UNIX, Windows and the World Wide Web server
    markets upon which we depend.


 


    For example, we provide our open access data retention solutions
    to customers within the financial services, healthcare,
    pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that
    are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with
    respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as
    Rule 17(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended) in the United States and in the other countries in
    which we operate. If our products do not meet and continue to
    comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this
    regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will
    not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our
    product offerings in these market and geographical segments at
    the rates for which we have forecast.


 



    We are
    exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio
    investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments
    could harm our financial results.


 


    At April 25, 2008, and April 27, 2007, we had
    $1,487.3 million and $1,430.7 million, respectively,
    in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted
    cash and investments. We invest our cash in a variety of
    financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in
    corporate bonds, money market funds, corporate securities,
    municipalities and the United States government and its
    agencies, and auction rate securities. These investments are
    subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate
    risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events such as the
    sub-prime mortgage crisis in the United States which has
    affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to
    global credit and liquidity issues. If the global credit market
    continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be
    impacted and we could determine that some of our investments
    have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value,
    requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our
    financial results.


 


    We account for our investment instruments in accordance with
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
    No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
    Equity Securities. All of the cash equivalents, marketable
    securities and restricted investments are treated as
    “available-for-sale” under SFAS No. 115.
    Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest
    earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed
    rate debt securities may have their market value adversely
    impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate
    securities may produce less income than expected if interest
    rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment
    income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest
    rates. Currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments
    in our investment portfolio. Because we have the ability and
    intent to hold our available-for-sale investments until
    maturity, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in
    interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to
    maturity. However, we may suffer losses in principal if forced
    to sell securities that have experienced a decline in market
    value because of changes in interest rates. Currently, we do not
    use financial derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure.


 



    Funds
    associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not
    be accessible for in excess of 12 months and our auction
    rate securities may experience an other than temporary decline
    in value, which would adversely affect our
    earnings.


 


    Auction rate securities or, ARS, held by us are securities with
    long term nominal maturities which, in accordance with
    investment policy guidelines, had credit ratings of AAA and Aaa
    at time of purchase. Interest rates for ARS are reset through a
    “Dutch auction” each month, which historically has
    provided a liquid market for these securities.


 


    Substantially all of our ARS are backed by pools of student
    loans guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education, and
    we believe the credit quality of these securities is high based
    on this guarantee. However liquidity



    
    19



Table of Contents




    issues in the global credit markets resulted in the failure of
    auctions for certain of our ARS investments, with a par value of
    $76.2 million at April 25, 2008. For each failed
    auction, the interest rate moves to a maximum rate defined for
    each security, and the ARS continue to pay interest in
    accordance with their terms, although the principal associated
    with the ARS will not be accessible until there is a successful
    auction or such time as other markets for ARS investments
    develop.


 


    We believe that the underlying credit quality of the assets
    backing our ARS investments have not been impacted by the
    reduced liquidity of these investments. Based on an analysis of
    the fair value and marketability of these investments, we
    recorded a temporary impairment within other accumulated
    comprehensive income, an element of stockholders’ equity on
    our balance sheet, of approximately $3.5 million at
    April 25, 2008. In addition, we have classified all of our
    auction rate securities that were not liquidated before
    April 25, 2008 as long-term assets in our consolidated
    balance sheet as of April 25, 2008 as our ability to
    liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is
    uncertain. If liquidity issues in the global credit market
    continue, or worsen, or if we experience reduced credit quality,
    extended illiquidity or realize reduced valuations of our ARS
    investments, we may determine that we have experienced an
    other-than-temporary decline in fair value in these long-term
    assets, which could adversely impact our financial results.


 



    Our
    leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    As a result of our sale of $1.265 billion of 1.75%
    convertible senior notes in June 2008 (the “Notes”),
    we have a greater amount of long-term debt than we have
    maintained in the past. We also have two credit facilities and
    various synthetic lease arrangements. As of April 25, 2008,
    as adjusted to give effect to the issuance of the Notes as of
    such date, we would have had approximately $1.438 billion
    of long-term debt outstanding. In addition, subject to the
    restrictions in our existing and any future financings
    agreements, we may incur additional debt.


 


    Our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have
    important consequences because:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    It could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations;




 



     
        • 

    
    An increased portion of our cash flows from operations may have
    to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not
    be available for operations, working capital, capital
    expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or
    other purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    It may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the
    future;




 



     
        • 

    
    It may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and industry; and




 



     
        • 

    
    It may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our
    industry or the economy in general.





 


    Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will
    depend on our future performance, which will be affected by
    financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We
    will not be able to control many of these factors, such as
    economic conditions and governmental regulations. Our operations
    may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our
    debt. If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in
    default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in
    default on our other outstanding classes of debt.


 



    Future
    issuances of common stock and hedging activities by holders of
    the Notes may depress the trading price of our common stock and
    the Notes.


 


    Any issuance of equity securities after the Notes offering,
    including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the Notes,
    could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders,
    including holders who receive shares upon conversion of their
    Notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our
    common stock and the Notes. We may issue equity securities in
    the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our
    operations and business strategy (including in connection with
    acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions),
    to increase our capital, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity,
    to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding
    warrants or options or for other reasons.



    
    20



Table of Contents




    In addition, the price of our common stock could also be
    affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who
    view the Notes as a more attractive means of equity
    participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading
    activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock by
    holders of the Notes. The hedging or arbitrage could, in turn,
    affect the trading price of the Notes, or any common stock that
    holders receive upon conversion of the Notes.


 



    Conversion
    of our Notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing
    stockholders, including holders who had previously converted
    their Notes.


 


    The conversion of some or all of our outstanding Notes will
    dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the
    extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the Notes.
    Upon conversion, we will satisfy our conversion obligation by
    delivering cash for the principal amount of a Note and shares of
    common stock, if any, to the extent the conversion value exceeds
    the principal amount. There would be no adjustment to the
    numerator in the net income per common share computation for the
    cash settled portion of the Notes as that portion of the debt
    instrument will always be settled in cash. The number of shares
    delivered upon conversion, if any, will be included in the
    denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common
    share. Any sales in the public market of any common stock
    issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing
    market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of
    the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants
    because the conversion of the Notes could be used to satisfy
    short positions, or anticipated conversion of the Notes into
    shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common
    stock.


 



    The
    note hedge and warrant transactions that we entered into in
    connection with the sale of the Notes may affect the trading
    price of our common stock.


 


    In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into
    privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with
    certain option counterparties (the “Counterparties”),
    which are expected to reduce the potential dilution to our
    common stock upon any conversion of the Notes. At the same time,
    we also entered into warrant transactions with the
    Counterparties pursuant to which we may issue shares of our
    common stock above a certain strike price. In connection with
    hedging these transactions, the Counterparties may have entered
    into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with
    respect to our common stock or purchased shares of our common
    stock in secondary market transactions at or following the
    pricing of the Notes. Such activities may have had the effect of
    increasing the price of our common stock. The Counterparties are
    likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior
    to conversion or maturity of the Notes by purchasing and selling
    shares of our common stock or entering into other derivative
    transactions. Additionally, these transactions may expose us to
    counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. We manage our
    exposure to counterparty credit risk through specific minimum
    credit standards and the diversification of counterparties. The
    effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on
    the market price of our common stock or the Notes will depend,
    in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this
    time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the
    value of our common stock.


 


    In addition, if our stock price exceeds the strike price for the
    warrants, there could be additional dilution to our
    shareholders, which could adversely affect the value of our
    common stock.


 



    Our
    synthetic leases are off-balance sheet arrangements that could
    negatively affect our financial condition and results. We are
    investing substantial resources in new facilities and physical
    infrastructure, which will increase our fixed costs. Our
    profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow
    proportionately to our increase in fixed costs.


 


    We have various synthetic lease arrangements with BNP Paribas
    Leasing Corporation (the lessor) for our headquarters office
    buildings in Sunnyvale, California and a data center in Research
    Triangle Park, North Carolina. These synthetic leases qualify
    for operating lease accounting treatment under
    SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases (as amended), and
    are not considered variable interest entities under
    FIN No. 46R “Consolidation of Variable Interest
    Entities (revised).” Therefore, we do not include the
    properties or the associated debt on our condensed consolidated
    balance sheet. However, if circumstances were to change
    regarding our or BNP’s ownership of the properties, or in
    BNP’s overall portfolio, we could be required to
    consolidate the entity, the leased facilities and the associated
    debt.



    
    21



Table of Contents




    If we elect not to purchase the properties at the end of the
    lease term, we have guaranteed a minimum residual value to BNP.
    Therefore, if the fair value of the properties declines below
    that guaranteed minimum residual value, our residual value
    guarantee would require us to pay the difference to BNP, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results
    of operations and financial condition.


 


    We have contractual commitments related to capital expenditures
    on construction or expansion of our facilities and data center.
    We may encounter cost overruns or project delays in connection
    with new facilities. These expansions will increase our fixed
    costs. If we are unable to grow our business and revenues
    proportionately to our increase in fixed costs, our
    profitability will be reduced.


 



    We are
    subject to restrictive debt covenants pursuant to our
    indebtedness. These covenants may restrict our ability to
    finance our business and, if we do not comply with the covenants
    or otherwise default under them, we may not have the funds
    necessary to pay all amounts that could become
    due.


 


    The agreements governing our credit facilities and synthetic
    lease arrangements contain, and any other future debt agreement
    we enter into may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our
    ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our
    ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Incur indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    Incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level;




 



     
        • 

    
    Grant liens;




 



     
        • 

    
    Sell all or substantially all our assets:




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into certain mergers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Change our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into swap agreements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into transactions with our affiliates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into certain restrictive agreements.





 


    Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our
    future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some
    of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic
    conditions.


 


    As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to
    changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain
    additional financing, if needed, may be significantly
    restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in
    transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. In
    addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could
    result in a default under the Notes and our other debt, which
    could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. If any of our
    debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available
    to repay such debt.


 



    Unfavorable
    economic and market conditions and global disruptions could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable
    global economic and market conditions as well as the uncertain
    geopolitical environment. Customer demand for our products is
    intrinsically linked to the strength of the economy. A reduction
    in demand for storage and data management caused by weakening
    economic conditions and customer decreases in corporate
    spending, deferral or delay of IT projects, longer time frames
    for IT purchasing decisions and generally reduced capital
    expenditures for IT storage solutions will result in decreased
    revenues and lower revenue growth rates for us. The network
    storage market growth declined significantly beginning in the
    third quarter of fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2003, causing both
    our revenues and operating results to decline. If the storage
    and data management markets grow more slowly than anticipated,
    or if emerging standards other than those adopted by us become
    increasingly accepted by these markets, our operating results
    could be materially and adversely affected.



    
    22



Table of Contents




    Turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the
    world, including terrorist activities and military actions, may
    continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. We have
    no assurance that the consequences from these events will not
    disrupt our operations in either the U.S. or other regions
    of the world. Continued increases in energy prices, declining
    economic conditions and global credit and liquidity issues could
    also affect our future operating results. If the economic and
    market conditions in the United States and globally do not
    improve, or if they deteriorate, we may experience material
    adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and
    financial condition.


 



    Risks
    inherent in our international operations could have a material
    adverse effect on our operating results.


 


    We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the
    United States. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived
    from sales outside of the U.S. For example, in fiscal 2008,
    47.1% of our total revenues were from international customers
    (including U.S. exports). In addition, we have several
    research and development centers overseas, and a substantial
    portion of our products are manufactured outside of the
    U.S. Accordingly, our business and our future operating
    results could be materially and adversely affected by a variety
    of factors affecting our international operations, some of which
    are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or
    economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade
    protection measures and other regulatory requirements,
    government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and
    international conflicts. In addition, we may not be able to
    maintain or increase international market demand for our
    products.


 


    We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency
    exchange rates as a result of our international operations.
    These exposures may change over time as business practices
    evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial results and cash flows. Our international sales are
    denominated in U.S. dollars and in foreign currencies. An
    increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to
    foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and
    therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets.
    Conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in
    lower
    U.S.-based
    revenue. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar
    relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of local
    operating expenses. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging
    market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility.
    We utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign
    currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities
    as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows. All balance
    sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every
    quarter. The time-value component of our cash flow hedges is
    recorded in earnings while all other gains and losses are marked
    to market through other comprehensive income until forecasted
    transactions occur, at which time such realized gains and losses
    are recognized in earnings. These hedges attempt to reduce, but
    do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency
    exchange movements. Factors that could have an impact on the
    effectiveness of our hedging program include the accuracy of
    forecasts and the volatility of foreign currency markets as well
    as widening interest rate differentials and the volatility of
    the foreign exchange market. There can be no assurance that such
    hedging strategies will be successful and that currency exchange
    rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our
    operating results.


 


    Additional risks inherent in our international business
    activities generally include, among others, longer accounts
    receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing
    international operations. Such factors could materially and
    adversely affect our future international sales and consequently
    our operating results. Our international operations are subject
    to other risks, including general import/export restrictions and
    the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy,
    misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our
    intellectual property rights than U.S. law.


 



    A
    significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents balances
    are held overseas. If we are not able to generate sufficient
    cash domestically in order to fund our U.S. operations and
    strategic opportunities and service our debt, we may incur a
    significant tax liability in order to repatriate the overseas
    cash balances, or we may need to raise additional capital in the
    future.


 


    A portion of our earnings which is generated from our
    international operations is held and invested by certain of our
    foreign subsidiaries. These amounts are not freely available for
    dividend repatriation to the United States without triggering
    significant adverse tax consequences, which could adversely
    affect our financial results. As a result, unless the cash
    generated by our domestic operations is sufficient to fund our
    domestic operations, our broader corporate initiatives such as
    stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other strategic
    opportunities, and to



    
    23



Table of Contents




    service our outstanding indebtedness, we may need to raise
    additional funds through public or private debt or equity
    financings, or we may need to expand our existing credit
    facilities to the extent we choose not to repatriate our
    overseas cash. Such additional financing may not be available on
    terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings
    or offerings would dilute our current stockholders’
    ownership. Furthermore, lenders, in particular in light of the
    current challenges in the credit markets, may not agree to
    extend us new, additional or continuing credit. If adequate
    funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable
    terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign cash and incur
    a significant tax expense or we may not be able to take
    advantage of strategic opportunities, develop new products,
    respond to competitive pressures or repay our outstanding
    indebtedness. In any such case, our business, operating results
    or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Our
    effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could
    increase our income tax expense and reduce our net
    income.


 


    Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are
    taxed at lower rates as compared to the U.S. statutory tax
    rate;




 



     
        • 

    
    Material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as
    a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses by
    tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective
    tax rates by tax jurisdiction different than our estimates;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changing tax laws, accounting standards, such as occurred with
    the introduction of SFAS No. 123R and
    FIN No. 48, regulations, and interpretations in
    multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the
    requirements of certain tax rulings;




 



     
        • 

    
    An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes,
    including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs
    of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment
    of goodwill;




 



     
        • 

    
    The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    Tax assessments or any related tax interest or penalties could
    significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in
    which the settlements take place; and




 



     
        • 

    
    A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign
    earnings.





 


    We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our
    non-U.S. customers.
    These benefits are contingent upon existing tax regulations in
    the United States and in the countries in which our
    international operations are located. Future changes in domestic
    or international tax regulations could adversely affect our
    ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. Our
    international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling
    concluded in the Netherlands, which expires in 2010. If we are
    unable to renegotiate a similar tax ruling upon expiration of
    the current ruling, our effective tax rate could increase and
    our operating results could be adversely affected. Our effective
    tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and
    evolving interpretations of existing law or regulations, which
    in turn would negatively impact our operating and financial
    results as a whole.


 


    The price of our common stock could decline to the extent that
    our financial results are materially affected by an adverse
    change in our effective tax rate. We are currently undergoing
    federal income tax audits in the United States and several
    foreign tax jurisdictions. The rights to some of our
    intellectual property (“IP”) are owned by certain of
    our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made between
    U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of
    this IP in a qualified cost sharing arrangement. Recently,
    several other U.S. companies have had their foreign IP
    arrangements challenged as part of IRS examinations, which has
    resulted in material proposed assessments
    and/or
    pending litigation. Our management does not believe, based upon
    information currently known to us, that the final resolution of
    any of our audits will have a material adverse effect upon our
    consolidated financial



    
    24



Table of Contents




    position and our results of operations and cash flows. If the
    ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these tax
    jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we
    have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows
    and financial condition could be adversely affected.


 



    We may
    face increased risks and uncertainties related to our current or
    future acquisitions and investments in nonmarketable securities
    of private companies, and these investments may not achieve our
    objectives.


 


    As part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating
    opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would
    complement our current products, expand the breadth of our
    markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. We may engage in
    future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders’
    investments and cause us to use cash, incur debt, or assume
    contingent liabilities.


 


    Acquisitions of companies entail numerous risks, and we may not
    be able to successfully integrate acquired operations and
    products or to realize anticipated synergies, economies of
    scale, or other value. Integration risks and issues may include,
    but are not limited to, key personnel retention and
    assimilation, management distraction, technical development and
    unexpected costs and liabilities, including goodwill impairment
    charges. In addition, we may be unable to recover strategic
    investments in development stage entities. Any such problems
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    On occasion, we invest in nonmarketable securities of private
    companies. As of April 25, 2008, the carrying value of our
    investments in nonmarketable securities totaled
    $11.2 million. Investments in nonmarketable securities are
    inherently risky, and some of these companies are likely to
    fail. Their success (or lack thereof) is dependent on product
    development, market acceptance, operational efficiency and other
    key business success factors. In addition, depending on these
    companies’ future prospects, they may not be able to raise
    additional funds when needed, or they may receive lower
    valuations, with less favorable investment terms than in
    previous financings, and our investments in them would likely
    become impaired.


 



    If we
    fail to manage our expanding business effectively, our operating
    results could be materially and adversely
    affected.


 


    Our future operating results depend to a large extent on
    management’s ability to successfully manage expansion and
    growth, including but not limited to expanding international
    operations, forecasting revenues, addressing new markets,
    controlling expenses, implementing and enhancing infrastructure,
    investing in people, facilities and capital equipment and
    managing our assets. An unexpected decline in the growth rate of
    revenues without a corresponding and timely reduction in expense
    growth or a failure to manage other aspects of growth could
    materially and adversely affect our operating results.


 


    In addition, continued expansion could strain our current
    management, financial, manufacturing and other existing systems
    and may require us to improve those existing systems or
    implement new ones. If we experience any problems with the
    improvement or expansion of these systems, procedures or
    controls, or if these systems, procedures or controls are not
    designed, implemented or improved in a cost-effective and timely
    manner, our operations may be materially and adversely affected.
    In addition, any failure to implement, improve and expand such
    systems, procedures and controls in a timely and efficient
    manner could harm our growth strategy and materially and
    adversely affect our financial condition and ability to achieve
    our business objectives.


 



    As we
    continue to grow our business, we are likely to incur costs
    earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, which could harm
    our operating results. A significant percentage of our expenses
    are fixed, which could materially and adversely affect our net
    income.


 


    We are increasing our investment in engineering, sales, service
    support and other functions to grow our business. We are likely
    to recognize the costs associated with these increased
    investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and
    the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop
    more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business.



    
    25



Table of Contents




    Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to
    future sales, and a significant percentage of our expenses are
    fixed. As a result, if sales levels are below expectations or
    previously higher levels, net income will be affected in a
    material and adverse manner.


 



    We
    depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment
    and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. Our
    business could be materially and adversely affected as a result
    of a natural disaster, terrorist acts or other catastrophic
    events.


 


    Any political, military, world health or other issue that
    hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of
    materials could lead to significant business disruptions.
    Furthermore, any strike, economic failure or other material
    disruption caused by fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, power
    shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar
    events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct
    business. If such disruptions result in cancellations of
    customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic
    activity or corporate spending on information technology, or
    directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and
    logistics functions, our results of operations and financial
    condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition,
    our headquarters are located in Northern California, an area
    susceptible to earthquakes. If any significant disaster were to
    occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired.


 



    We
    depend on attracting and retaining qualified technical and sales
    personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain such
    personnel, our operating results could be materially and
    adversely impacted.


 


    Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to
    identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified technical and
    sales personnel. Because our future success is dependent on our
    ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we
    are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract,
    motivate and retain qualified engineers with the requisite
    education, background and industry experience. Competition for
    qualified engineers, particularly in Silicon Valley, can be
    intense. The loss of the services of a significant number of our
    engineers or salespeople could be disruptive to our development
    efforts or business relationships and could materially and
    adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Undetected
    software errors, hardware errors, or failures found in new
    products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of
    our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our
    revenues. Product quality problems could lead to reduced
    revenue, gross margins and net income.


 


    Our products may contain undetected software errors, hardware
    errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are
    released. Despite testing by us and by current and potential
    customers, errors may not be found in new products until after
    commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or
    delay in market acceptance, which could materially and adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    If we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a
    failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal
    from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory
    costs or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have
    a material impact on our revenue, margins and net income.


 


    In addition, we may be subject to losses that may result or are
    alleged to result from defects in our products, which could
    subject us to claims for damages, including consequential
    damages. Based on our historical experience, we believe that the
    risk of exposure to product liability claims is currently low.
    However, should we experience increased exposure to product
    liability claims, our business could be adversely impacted.


 



    We are
    exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims
    and protection of intellectual property rights, which could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business,
    including our ongoing litigation with Sun Microsystems.
    Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal
    business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal
    proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution
    of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, operating results, or financial condition.



    
    26



Table of Contents




    If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be
    subject to increased competition that could materially and
    adversely affect our operating results. Our success depends
    significantly upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a
    combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets,
    confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents
    to protect our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our
    software, documentation and other written materials under trade
    secret, copyright and patent laws, which afford only limited
    protection. Some of our U.S. trademarks are registered
    internationally as well. We will continue to evaluate the
    registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We
    generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our
    employees and with our resellers, strategic partners and
    customers. We currently have multiple U.S. and
    international patent applications pending and multiple
    U.S. patents issued. The pending applications may not be
    approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged.
    If such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated.
    We cannot assure you that we will develop proprietary products
    or technologies that are patentable, that any issued patent will
    provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be
    challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will
    not materially and adversely affect our ability to do business.
    In addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark
    registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and
    competitive position.


 


    Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary
    technology. Any such litigation may be time consuming and
    costly. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights,
    unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products
    or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
    In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect
    proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the
    United States. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting
    our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors
    will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our
    products, or design around patents issued to us or other
    intellectual property rights of ours.


 


    We are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. We
    may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing
    third parties’ intellectual property rights. Third parties
    may in the future claim infringement by us with respect to
    current or future products, patents, trademarks or other
    proprietary rights. We expect that companies in the network
    storage market will increasingly be subject to infringement
    claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry
    segment grows and the functionality of products in different
    industry segments overlaps. Any such claims could be time
    consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment
    delays, require us to redesign our products or to enter into
    royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially
    and adversely affect our operating results. Such royalty or
    licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms
    acceptable to us or at all.


 



    Our
    business is subject to increasingly complex corporate
    governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements
    that have increased both our costs and the risk of
    noncompliance.


 


    Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to
    certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial
    market exchange entities charged with the protection of
    investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are
    publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and NASDAQ, have
    implemented requirements and regulations and continue developing
    additional regulations and requirements in response to corporate
    scandals and laws enacted by Congress, most notably the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these
    regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue
    resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and
    diversion of management time and attention from
    revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.


 


    We completed our evaluation of our internal controls over
    financial reporting for the fiscal year ended April 25,
    2008 as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002. Although our assessment, testing and evaluation
    resulted in our conclusion that as of April 25, 2008, our
    internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we
    cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If
    our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our
    business and reputation could be harmed. We may incur additional
    expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection
    with further evaluations, either of which could materially
    increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net
    income.


 


    Because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are
    subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their
    lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve
    over time as new guidance is provided by



    
    27



Table of Contents




    regulatory and governing bodies. This evolution may result in
    continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and
    additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our
    disclosure and governance practices.


 



    Our
    ability to forecast earnings is limited by the impact of new and
    existing accounting requirements such as
    SFAS No. 123R.


 


    The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires companies to
    recognize the fair value of stock options and other share-based
    payment compensation to employees as compensation expense in the
    statement of income. Option pricing models require the input of
    highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock
    price volatility, expected life and forfeiture rate. We have
    chosen to base our estimate of future volatility using the
    implied volatility of traded options to purchase our common
    stock as permitted by SAB No. 107. Management applies
    judgment when determining estimated forfeiture rates. We base
    our estimates on historical experience and on various other
    assumptions management believes to be reasonable under the
    circumstances, actual results may differ significantly from
    these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and,
    as a result, could have a material impact on our financial
    position and results of operations. Given the unpredictable
    nature of the “Black Scholes” variables and other
    management assumptions such as number of options to be granted,
    underlying strike price and associated income tax impacts, it is
    very difficult to forecast stock-based compensation expense for
    any given quarter or year. Any changes in these highly
    subjective assumptions may significantly impact our ability to
    make accurate forecasts of future earnings and volatility of our
    stock price. If another party asserts that the fair value of our
    employee stock options is misstated, securities class action
    litigation could be brought against us, or the market price of
    our common stock could decline, or both could occur. As a
    result, we could incur significant losses, and our operating
    results may be adversely affected.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B