Item 1A “Risk Factors — We are exposed
    to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and
    protection of intellectual property rights, which could
    adversely affect our operating results.”


 



    Environmental
    Disclosure


 


    Various federal, state and local provisions regulate the use and
    discharge of certain hazardous materials used in the manufacture
    of our products. Failure to comply with environmental
    regulations in the future could cause us to incur substantial
    costs or subject us to business interruptions. We believe we are
    fully compliant with all applicable environmental laws. All of
    our products meet the requirements for WEEE, RoHS and China RoHS
    compliance. We have maintained an Environmental Management
    System since December 2004 as well as our ISO 14001
    certification. As part of ISO 14001 requirements, NetApp
    conducts annual review of all aspects of our operations and we
    constantly monitor environmental legislation and requirements to
    ensure we are taking necessary measures to continually remain in
    compliance with any and all applicable laws.


 



    Working
    Capital Practices


 


    Information about our working capital practices is included in
    Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”
    under the heading “Financial Condition, Capital Resources
    and Liquidity” and is incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Government
    Contracts


 


    We derive revenues from contracts with the United States
    government, state and local governments and their respective
    agencies. Our sales to government clients subject us to risks
    including early termination, audits,



    
    9



Table of Contents




    investigations, sanctions penalties and potential disbarment.
    For more information, refer to Item 1A “Risk
    Factor — The U.S. government has contributed to
    our revenue growth and has become an important customer for
    us.” In addition, please refer to Item 3 —
    “Legal Proceedings” for information related to our GSA
    settlement.


 



    Foreign
    Operations and Export Sales


 


    Information about our foreign operations and export sales is
    included in Note 7 — “Segment, Geographic,
    and Significant Customer Information” to our consolidated
    financial statements and Item 1A “Risk
    Factors — Risks inherent in our international
    operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating
    results”.


 



    Employees


 


    As of April 24, 2009, we had 7,976 employees. We have
    never had a work stoppage and consider relations with our
    employees to be good.


 



    Executive
    Officers


 


    Our executive officers and their ages as of May 25, 2009,
    are as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    Daniel J. Warmenhoven



 

 


    58

 


 


    Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board





    Thomas F. Mendoza



 

 


    58

 


 


    Vice Chairman





    Thomas Georgens



 

 


    49

 


 


    President and Chief Operating Officer, Board Member





    Steven J. Gomo



 

 


    57

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer





    Robert E. Salmon



 

 


    48

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Field Operations








 


    Daniel J. Warmenhoven joined NetApp in October 1994 as
    president and chief executive officer, and has been a member of
    the Board of Directors since October 1994. Mr. Warmenhoven
    currently serves as chief executive officer and as of March 2008
    he was appointed chairman of the Board of Directors. Prior to
    joining the Company, Mr. Warmenhoven served in various
    capacities, including president, chief executive officer, and
    chairman of the Board of Directors of Network Equipment
    Technologies, Inc., a telecommunications equipment company, from
    November 1989 to January 1994. Prior to Network Equipment
    Technologies, Mr. Warmenhoven held executive and managerial
    positions at Hewlett-Packard from 1985 to 1989 and IBM
    Corporation from 1972 to 1985. Mr. Warmenhoven is a
    Director of Aruba Networks, Inc., sits on the Bechtel Board of
    Counselors, is vice chairman of the board of the Tech Museum of
    Innovation in San Jose, CA and is a trustee of Bellarmine
    College Preparatory in San Jose, CA. Mr. Warmenhoven
    holds a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Princeton
    University.


 


    Thomas F. Mendoza was appointed vice chairman in March
    2008. Mr. Mendoza joined the company in May 1994 and served
    as president from October 2000 to March 2008. Prior to March
    2000, he served in various capacities at NetApp including senior
    vice president, worldwide sales and marketing, senior vice
    president, worldwide sales and vice president, North American
    sales. Mr. Mendoza has more than 30 years of
    experience as a high-technology executive and has held executive
    positions at Auspex Systems, Inc. and Stratus Technologies, Inc.
    He holds a B.A. degree in economics from Notre Dame and is an
    alumnus of Stanford University’s Executive Business
    Program. In September 2000, the University of Notre Dame renamed
    its business school the Mendoza College of Business in honor of
    an endowment from Tom and his wife, Kathy.


 


    Thomas Georgens is the president and chief operating
    officer of the Company and is responsible for all product
    operations and field operations worldwide. Mr. Georgens has
    also been a member of the Board of Directors at NetApp since
    March 2008. Mr. Georgens joined the Company in 2005 and
    served as the Company’s executive vice president of product
    operations from January 2007 until February 2008. Prior to
    January 2007, Mr. Georgens served as the Company’s
    executive vice president and general manager of enterprise
    storage systems. Before joining NetApp, Mr. Georgens spent
    nine years at Engenio, a subsidiary of LSI Logic, with the last
    two years as chief executive officer. He has also served in
    various other positions, including president of LSI Logic
    Storage Systems



    
    10



Table of Contents




    and executive vice president of LSI Logic. Prior to LSI Logic,
    Mr. Georgens spent 11 years at EMC in a variety of
    engineering and marketing positions. Mr. Georgens holds a
    B.S. degree and an M.E. degree in Computer and Systems
    Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute as well as an
    M.B.A. degree from Babson College.


 


    Steven J. Gomo joined NetApp in August 2002 as senior
    vice president of finance and chief financial officer. He was
    appointed executive vice president of finance and chief
    financial officer in October 2004. Prior to joining the Company,
    he served as chief financial officer for Gemplus International
    S.A., headquartered in Luxembourg from November 2000 to April
    2002 and as chief financial officer of Silicon Graphics, Inc.,
    from February 1998 to August 2000. Prior to February 1998, he
    worked at Hewlett-Packard Company for 24 years in various
    positions, including financial management, corporate finance,
    general management, and manufacturing. Mr. Gomo currently
    serves on the board of SanDisk Corporation. Mr. Gomo holds
    an M.B.A. degree from Santa Clara University and a B.S.
    degree in business administration from Oregon State University.


 


    Robert E. Salmon joined NetApp in January 1994 and was
    appointed executive vice president, field operations in December
    2005. Mr. Salmon has served as the Company’s executive
    vice president of worldwide sales since September 2004. From
    August 2003 to September 2004, Mr. Salmon served as the
    Company’s senior vice president of worldwide sales and from
    May 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Salmon served as the
    Company’s vice president of North American sales. Prior to
    his tenure at NetApp Mr. Salmon spent nearly ten years with
    Sun Microsystems and Data General Corporation. Mr. Salmon
    graduated from California State University, Chico with a B.S.
    degree in computer science.


 



    Additional
    Information


 


    Our Internet address is www.netapp.com. We make available
    through our Internet Web site our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the
    SEC.


 


    The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
    SEC. The public also may read and copy these filings at the
    SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
    N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information about this Public
    Reference Room is available by calling (800) SEC-0330.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The following risk factors and other information included in
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
    described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks
    and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently
    deem less significant may also impair our business operations.
    Please see page 3 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for additional discussion of these forward-looking statements.
    If any of the events or circumstances described in the following
    risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results,
    and financial condition could be materially adversely
    affected.


 



    Our
    operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable
    economic and market conditions, including the current economic
    downturn.


 


    We are subject to the effects of general global economic and
    market conditions challenging economic conditions worldwide have
    from time to time contributed, and are currently contributing,
    to slowdowns in the computer, storage, and networking industries
    at large, as well as the information technology (“IT”)
    market, resulting in:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Reduced demand for our products as a result of continued
    constraints on IT related spending by our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased price competition for our products from competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Deferment of purchases and orders by customers due to budgetary
    constraints or changes in current or planned utilization of our
    systems;






    
    11



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Risk of excess and obsolete inventories;




 



     
        • 

    
    Excess facilities costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue;




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased risk of losses or impairment charges related to our
    investment portfolio;




 



     
        • 

    
    Negative impacts from increased financial pressures on
    customers, distributors and resellers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Negative impacts from increased financial pressures on key
    suppliers or contract manufacturers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Potential discontinuance of product lines or businesses and
    related asset impairments.





 


    The turmoil in the global credit markets, the recent instability
    in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and
    other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global
    economic conditions. The economic challenges we initially
    experienced in the United States have spread throughout the
    world. If global economic and market conditions, or economic
    conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain
    uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, we may experience
    material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and
    financial condition.


 



    Our
    quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely
    impact our common stock price.


 


    We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of
    operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be
    relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our operating
    results have in the past, and will continue to be, subject to
    quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of
    which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an
    uncertain global economic environment. These factors include,
    but are not limited to, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part
    due to changes in general economic conditions and specific
    economic conditions in the computer, storage, and networking
    industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    A shift in federal government spending patterns;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and
    reduced visibility into our customers’ spending plans and
    associated revenue;




 



     
        • 

    
    The level of price and product competition in our target product
    markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    The impact of the current adverse economic and credit
    environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers,
    including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital
    expenditures;




 



     
        • 

    
    The overall movement toward industry consolidations among both
    our competitors and our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers due to industry
    consolidation, which could subject us to periodic
    supply-and-demand,
    price rigidity, and quality issues with our components;




 



     
        • 

    
    The timing of bookings or the cancellation of significant orders;




 



     
        • 

    
    Product configuration and mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    The extent to which our customers renew their service and
    maintenance contracts with us;




 



     
        • 

    
    Market acceptance of new products and product enhancements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements and introductions of, and transitions to, new
    products by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or
    product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and
    enhancements in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    Technological changes in our target product markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our levels of expenditure on research and development and sales
    and marketing programs;






    
    12



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result
    of our international operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Excess or inadequate facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing
    from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining
    the values of certain assets (including the amounts of valuation
    allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our
    consolidated financial statements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we
    continue to enhance and scale our system infrastructure;




 



     
        • 

    
    Future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting
    rules, such as the increased use of fair value measures and the
    potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare
    financial statements in accordance with International Financial
    Reporting Standards (IFRS);




 



     
        • 

    
    Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues
    in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in
    revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the
    latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal
    government’s September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of
    its orders, and




 



     
        • 

    
    Linearity, such as our historical intraquarter revenue pattern
    in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter’s
    total revenues occur in the last month of the quarter.





 


    Due to such factors, operating results for a future period are
    difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not
    necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future
    periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors
    discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
    It is possible that in one or more quarters our results may fall
    below our forecasts and the expectations of public market
    analysts and investors. In such event, the trading price of our
    common stock would likely decrease.


 



    Our
    revenue for a particular period is difficult to forecast, and a
    shortfall in revenue may harm our business and our operating
    results.


 


    Our revenues for a particular period are difficult to forecast,
    especially in light of the current global economic downturn and
    related market uncertainty. Product sales are also difficult to
    forecast because the storage and data management market is
    rapidly evolving, and our sales cycle varies substantially from
    customer to customer. New or additional product introductions
    also increase the complexities of forecasting revenues.


 


    Additionally, we derive a majority of our revenue in any given
    quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings
    typically follow intraquarter seasonality patterns weighted
    toward the back end of the quarter. If we do not achieve
    bookings in the latter part of a quarter consistent with our
    quarterly targets, our financial results will be adversely
    impacted.


 


    We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry
    practice, to forecast bookings and trends in our business. Sales
    personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate
    when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount
    of the sale and the products or services to be sold. These
    estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a bookings
    pipeline. Our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable
    either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time,
    in part because the “conversion rate” of the pipeline
    into contracts varies from customer to customer, can be
    difficult to estimate, and requires management judgment. Small
    deviations from our forecasted conversion rate may result in
    inaccurate plans and budgets and could materially and adversely
    impact our business or our planned results of operations. In
    particular, the continued adverse events in the economic
    environment and financial markets have made it even more
    difficult for us to forecast our future results and may result
    in a reduction in our quarterly conversion rate as our
    customers’ purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in
    amount, or cancelled.


 


    Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions
    has caused consumers, businesses and governments to defer
    purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash
    availability and declining customer confidence. Accordingly,
    future demand for our products could differ from our current
    expectations.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    We
    have experienced periods of alternating growth and decline in
    revenues and operating expenses. If we are not able to
    successfully manage these fluctuations, our business, financial
    condition and results of operations could be significantly
    impacted.


 


    The ongoing global financial crisis has led to a worldwide
    economic downturn that has negatively affected our business. If
    the current economic downturn continues or worsens, demand for
    our products and services and our revenues may be further
    reduced. A prolonged downturn can adversely affect our revenues,
    gross margin and results of operations. During such economic
    downturns, it is critical to appropriately align our cost
    structure with prevailing market conditions and to minimize the
    effect of such downturns on our operations, while also
    maintaining our capabilities and strategic investments for
    future growth.


 


    Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to
    future revenues, and a significant percentage of our expenses
    are fixed. We have a limited ability to quickly or significantly
    reduce our fixed costs, and if revenue levels are below our
    expectations, operating results will be adversely impacted.
    During uneven periods of growth, we may incur costs before we
    realize some of the anticipated benefits, which could harm our
    operating results. We have significant investments in
    engineering, sales, service support, marketing programs and
    other functions to support and grow our business. We are likely
    to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier
    than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these
    investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we
    expect, which could harm our business, operating results and
    financial condition.


 


    Conversely, if we are unable to effectively manage our resources
    and capacity, during periods of increasing demand for our
    products, we could experience a material adverse effect on
    operations and financial results. If the network storage market
    fails to grow, or grows slower than we expect, our revenues will
    be adversely affected. Also, even if IT spending increases, our
    revenue may not grow at the same pace.


 



    Our
    gross margins have varied over time and may continue to vary,
    and such variation may make it more difficult to forecast our
    earnings.


 


    Our product gross margins have been and may continue to be
    affected by a variety of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Demand for storage and data management products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Pricing actions, rebates, initiatives, discount levels, and
    price competition;




 



     
        • 

    
    Direct versus indirect and OEM sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix
    of configurations within each product group;




 



     
        • 

    
    Product and add-on software mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    The mix of services as a percentage of revenue;




 



     
        • 

    
    The mix and average selling prices of products;




 



     
        • 

    
    The mix of disk content;




 



     
        • 

    
    The timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals;




 



     
        • 

    
    New product introductions and enhancements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Excess inventory purchase commitments as a result of changes in
    demand forecasts and possible product and software defects as we
    transition our products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The cost of components, manufacturing labor, quality, warranty,
    and freight.





 


    Changes in software entitlements and maintenance gross margins
    may result from various factors, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The size of the installed base of products under support
    contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    The timing of technical support service contract renewals;




 



     
        • 

    
    Demand for and the timing of delivery of upgrades;






    
    14



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The timing of our technical support service initiatives; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The level of spending on our customer support infrastructure.





 


    Changes in service gross margins may result from various
    factors, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The mix of customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    The size and timing of service contract renewals;




 



     
        • 

    
    The volume and use of outside partners to deliver support
    services on our behalf; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Product quality and serviceability issues.





 


    Due to such factors, gross margins are subject to variations
    from period to period and are difficult to predict.


 



    Our
    cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring plans may not
    result in anticipated savings or more efficient operations. Our
    recently-announced restructuring may disrupt our operations and
    adversely affect our operations and financial
    results.


 


    On February 11, 2009, in response to the worsening global
    economic conditions and uncertainty about future IT spending, we
    announced a restructuring of our worldwide operations in an
    effort to strategically align our cost structure with expected
    revenues, as well as to reallocate resources into areas of our
    business with more growth potential.


 


    Additionally, in December 2008, we decided to cease development
    and availability of our
    SnapMirror®

    for Open Systems (“SMOS”) product, and as a result
    recorded restructuring and other charges attributable primarily
    to severance and employee-related and facility closure costs, as
    well as the impairment of certain acquired intangible assets.


 


    We may not be able to successfully complete and realize the
    expected benefits of these restructuring plans. Our
    restructuring plans may involve higher costs or a longer
    timetable, or they may fail to improve our gross margins,
    results of operations and cash flows as we anticipate. Our
    inability to realize these benefits may result in an ineffective
    business structure that could negatively impact our results of
    operations. In addition to costs related to severance and other
    employee-related costs, our restructuring plans may also subject
    us to litigation risks and expenses.


 


    In addition, our restructuring plans may have other adverse
    consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in
    workforce, the loss of employees with valuable knowledge or
    expertise, a negative impact on employee morale, or a gain in
    competitive advantage by our competitors over us. The
    restructuring efforts could also be disruptive to our day-to-day
    operations and cause our remaining employees to be less
    productive, which in turn may affect our revenue and other
    operating results in the future. In the event that the economy
    recovers sooner than we expect and results in increased IT
    spending, we may not have sufficient capacity to capitalize on
    the related increase in demand for our products and services.


 


    We may undertake future cost-reduction initiatives and
    restructuring plans that may adversely impact our operations;
    and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our
    prior or any future restructurings.


 



    Changes
    in market conditions have led, and in the future could lead, to
    charges related to the discontinuance of certain of our products
    and asset impairments.


 


    In response to changes in economic conditions and market
    demands, we may be required to strategically realign our
    resources and consider cost containment measures including
    restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise discontinuing certain
    products. Any decision to limit investment in, dispose of, or
    otherwise exit products may result in the recording of charges
    to earnings, such as inventory and technology-related or other
    intangible asset write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges
    relating to consolidation of excess facilities, cancellation
    penalties or claims from third parties who were resellers or
    users of discontinued products, which would harm our operating
    results. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or
    ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets,
    including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result
    of such assessments and decisions. Additionally, we



    
    15



Table of Contents




    are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual
    basis, and between annual tests in certain circumstances when
    impairment indicators exist or if certain events or changes in
    circumstances have occurred. Future goodwill impairment tests
    may result in charges to earnings, which could materially harm
    our operating results.


 



    Our
    OEM relationship with IBM may not continue to generate
    significant revenue.


 


    In April 2005, we entered into an OEM agreement with IBM, which
    enables IBM to sell IBM branded solutions based on NetAppunified
    solutions, including
    NearStore®

    and V-Series systems, as well as associated software offerings.
    While this agreement is an element of our strategy to expand our
    reach into more customers and countries, we do not have an
    exclusive relationship with IBM, and there is no minimum
    commitment for any given period of time; therefore, this
    relationship may not continue to contribute revenue in future
    years. In addition, we have no control over the products that
    IBM selects to sell, or its release schedule and timing of those
    products; nor do we control its pricing. In the event that sales
    through IBM increase, we may experience distribution channel
    conflicts between our direct sales force and IBM or among our
    channel partners. If we fail to minimize channel conflicts, our
    operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We
    cannot assure you that this OEM relationship will continue to
    generate significant revenue while the agreement is in effect,
    or that the relationship will continue to be in effect for any
    specific period of time.


 



    If we
    are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop
    new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenue may
    be impacted negatively.


 


    An element of our strategy to increase revenue is to
    strategically partner with major third-party software and
    hardware vendors that integrate our products into their products
    and also co-market our products with these vendors. We have
    significant partner relationships with database, business
    application, backup management and server virtualization
    companies, including Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, Symantec and
    VMware. A number of these strategic partners are industry
    leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage
    market. There is intense competition for attractive strategic
    partners, and even if we can establish relationships with these
    or other partners, these partnerships may not generate
    significant revenue or may not continue to be in effect for any
    specific period of time. If these relationships fail to
    materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product
    development or other operational difficulties.


 


    We intend to continue to establish and maintain business
    relationships with technology companies to accelerate the
    development and marketing of our storage solutions. To the
    extent that we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships
    or maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenue
    and operating results could be impacted negatively. In addition,
    the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse
    effect on our revenues and operating results.


 



    Disruption
    of or changes in our distribution model could harm our
    sales.


 


    If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services
    properly, or if our distributors’ financial condition or
    operations weaken, our revenue and gross margins could be
    adversely affected.


 


    We market and sell our storage solutions directly through our
    worldwide sales force and indirectly through channel partners
    such as value-added resellers, systems integrators,
    distributors, OEMs and strategic business partners, and we
    derive a significant portion of our revenue from these channel
    partners. During fiscal 2009, revenues generated from sales
    through our channel partners accounted for 69.0% of our
    revenues. In order for us to maintain or increase our revenues,
    we must effectively manage our relationships with channel
    partners.


 


    Several factors could result in disruption of or changes in our
    distribution model, which could materially harm our revenues and
    gross margins, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We compete with some of our channel partners through our direct
    sales force, which may lead these partners to use other
    suppliers who do not directly sell their own products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share
    of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear;






    
    16



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources
    and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in
    business conditions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Revenue from indirect sales could suffer if our channel
    partners’ financial condition or operations weaken.





 


    In addition, we depend on our channel partners to comply with
    applicable regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which
    they operate. Their failure to do so could have a material
    adverse effect on our revenues and operating results.


 



    The
    U.S. government has contributed to our revenue growth and has
    become an important customer for us. Future revenue from the
    U.S. government is subject to shifts in government spending
    patterns. A decrease in government demand for our products could
    materially affect our revenues. In addition, our business could
    be adversely affected as a result of future examinations by the
    U.S. government.


 


    The U.S. government has become an important customer for
    the storage market and for us; however, government demand is
    unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that we will
    maintain or grow our revenue from the U.S. government.
    Government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and
    expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased
    capital expenditures in IT spending. If the government or
    individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their
    capital spending patterns, our revenues and operating results
    may be harmed.


 


    In addition, selling our products to the U.S. government
    also subjects us to certain regulatory requirements. The failure
    to comply with these requirements could subject us to fines and
    other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our revenues and operating results. For example, in April 2009,
    we entered into a settlement agreement with the United States of
    America, acting through the United States Department of Justice
    (“DOJ”) and on behalf of the General Services
    Administration (the “GSA”), under which we agreed to
    pay the United States $128.0 million, plus interest of
    $0.7 million, related to a dispute regarding our discount
    practices and compliance with the price reduction clause
    provisions of its GSA contracts between August 1997 and February
    2005. We are currently in discussions with the
    U.S. government to demonstrate that we have implemented
    processes and procedures to ensure that we comply with federal
    contracting rules. If we are unable to demonstrate to the
    U.S. government that we have implemented such improved
    policies and procedures or if we are subject to an adverse
    outcome in any future examinations of our federal contracting
    practices, we could be suspended or debarred from contracting
    with the U.S. government generally, or with any specific
    agency, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue
    and operating results.


 



    A
    portion of our revenue is generated by large, recurring
    purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. A
    loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by these parties has
    and could continue to negatively affect our
    revenue.


 


    During fiscal 2009, two U.S. distributors accounted for
    approximately 10.5% and 10.6% of our revenues, respectively. The
    loss of continued orders from any of our more significant
    customers, strategic partners, distributors or resellers could
    cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. Our ability to
    attract new customers will depend on a variety of factors,
    including the cost-effectiveness, reliability, scalability,
    breadth and depth of our products.


 


    We generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with
    our customers for an extended period of time, and thus we may
    not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from
    these customers, resellers or distributors. For example, our
    reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases
    and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop
    purchasing and marketing our products at any time.


 


    Recent turmoil in the credit markets may further negatively
    impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our
    customers, resellers and distributors, or the ability of our
    customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products.
    If the global economy and credit markets continue to deteriorate
    and our future sales decline, our financial condition and
    operating results could be adversely impacted.


 


    Because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a
    substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or
    unexpected returns from, customers and resellers, or the loss of
    any significant customer or reseller,



    
    17



Table of Contents




    could harm our business. Although our largest customers may vary
    from period to period, we anticipate that our operating results
    for any given period will continue to depend on large orders
    from significant customers. In addition, a change in the mix of
    our customers could adversely affect our revenue and gross
    margins.


 



    We are
    exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers, resellers,
    and distributors, as well as credit exposures in weakened
    markets, which could result in material losses.


 


    Most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with
    typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States
    and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some
    markets outside the United States. We monitor individual
    customer payment capability in granting such open credit
    arrangements, and seek to limit such open credit to amounts we
    believe the customers can pay. Beyond our open credit
    arrangements, we also have recourse or nonrecourse customer
    financing leasing arrangements with third party leasing
    companies through preexisting relationships with customers.
    Under the terms of recourse leases, which are treated as
    off-balance sheet arrangements, we remain liable for the
    aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third party
    leasing company in the event that any customers default. We
    expect demand for customer financing to continue. During periods
    of economic downturn in the storage industry and the global
    economy, our exposure to credit risks from our customers
    increases. In addition, our exposure to credit risks of our
    customers may increase if our customers and their customers or
    their lease financing sources are adversely affected by the
    current global economic downturn, or if there is a continuation
    or worsening of the downturn. Although we have programs in place
    to monitor and mitigate the associated risks, such programs may
    not be effective in reducing our credit risks.


 


    In the past, there have been bankruptcies by our customers both
    who have open credit and who have lease financing arrangements
    with us, causing us to incur bad debt charges, and, in the case
    of financing arrangements, a loss of revenues. There can be no
    assurance that additional losses will not occur in future
    periods. Any future losses could harm our business and have a
    material adverse effect on our operating results and financial
    condition. Additionally, to the extent that the recent turmoil
    in the credit markets makes it more difficult for customers to
    obtain open credit or lease financing, those customers’
    ability to purchase our product could be adversely impacted,
    which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition and operating results.


 



    The
    market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly
    in the past and will likely continue to do so in the
    future.


 


    The market price for our common stock has experienced
    substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could
    cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These
    factors include but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in our operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    Variations between our operating results and either the guidance
    we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of
    securities analysts;




 



     
        • 

    
    Economic developments in the storage and data management market
    as a whole;




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by
    investors to be comparable to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections;




 



     
        • 

    
    Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other
    regulatory bodies;




 



     
        • 

    
    International conflicts and acts of terrorism;




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of new products, applications, or product
    enhancements by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers,
    channel and strategic partners; and




 



     
        • 

    
    General market conditions, including the recent financial and
    credit crisis and global economic downturn.





 


    In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that
    has particularly affected the market prices of the equity
    securities of many technology companies. Certain macroeconomic
    factors such as changes in interest rates, the market climate
    for the technology sector, and levels of corporate spending on
    IT, as well as variations in our expected operating performance,
    could continue to have an impact on the trading price of our
    stock. As a result, the



    
    18



Table of Contents




    market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in
    the future, and any broad market decline may materially and
    adversely affect the market price of our common stock.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to
    technological change, if our new products do not achieve market
    acceptance, if we fail to manage the transition between our new
    and old products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of
    service and support for our new products, our operating results
    could be materially and adversely affected.


 


    Our future growth depends upon the successful development and
    introduction of new hardware and software products. Due to the
    complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances
    and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to
    produce new products, such products are subject to significant
    technical risks. In addition, our new products must respond to
    technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are
    unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and
    introduce new products in a timely manner in response to
    changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such
    products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results
    could be materially and adversely affected. New or additional
    product introductions increase the complexities of forecasting
    revenues, and if not managed effectively, may adversely affect
    our sales of existing products.


 


    As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully
    manage the transition from older products in order to minimize
    disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive
    levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough
    supplies of new products can be delivered to meet
    customers’ demands.


 


    As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase
    demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed
    to additional competition. We may not be able to provide
    products, service and support to effectively compete for these
    market opportunities.


 



    An
    increase in competition and industry consolidation could
    materially and adversely affect our operating
    results.


 


    The storage markets are intensely competitive and are
    characterized by rapidly changing technology. In the storage
    market, our primary and near-line storage system products and
    our associated software portfolio compete primarily with storage
    system products and data management software from EMC, Hitachi
    Data Systems, HP, IBM, and Sun Microsystems. In addition, Dell,
    Inc. is a competitor in the storage marketplace through its
    business arrangement with EMC, which allows Dell to resell EMC
    storage hardware and software products, as well as through
    Dell’s acquisition of EqualLogic, through which Dell offers
    low-priced storage solutions. In the secondary storage market,
    which includes the disk-to-disk backup, compliance and business
    continuity segments, our solutions compete primarily against
    products from EMC and Sun Microsystems. Our VTL products also
    compete with traditional tape backup solutions in the broader
    data backup/recovery space. Additionally, a number of small,
    newer companies have recently entered the storage systems and
    data management software markets, the near-line and VTL storage
    markets and the high-performance clustered storage markets, some
    of which may become significant competitors in the future.


 


    There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our
    markets for several years. For example, in April 2009, Oracle
    Corporation, one of our strategic partners, announced its plan
    to acquire Sun Microsystems. We expect this trend to continue as
    companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions
    in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are
    unable to continue operations. We believe that industry
    consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better
    able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. In
    addition, current and potential competitors have established or
    may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with
    third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors
    or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire
    significant market share. We may not be able to compete
    successfully against current or future competitors. Competitive
    pressures we face could materially and adversely affect our
    business and operating results.



    
    19



Table of Contents





    Our
    future financial performance depends on growth in the storage
    and data management markets. If these markets do not perform as
    we expect and upon which we calculate and forecast our revenues,
    our operating results will be materially and adversely
    impacted.


 


    All of our products address the storage and data management
    markets. Accordingly, our future financial performance will
    depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data
    management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging
    standards in these markets. The markets for storage and data
    management have been adversely impacted by the current global
    economic downturn and may not grow as anticipated or may
    continue to decline.


 


    Additionally, emerging standards in these markets may adversely
    affect the
    UNIX®,

    Windows®

    and the World Wide Web server markets upon which we depend. For
    example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to
    customers within the financial services, healthcare,
    pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that
    are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with
    respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as
    Rule 17(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended) in the United States and in the other countries in
    which we operate. If our products do not meet and continue to
    comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this
    regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will
    not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our
    product offerings in these market and geographical segments at
    the rates which we have forecasted.


 



    Supply
    chain issues, including financial problems of contract
    manufacturers or component suppliers, or a shortage of adequate
    component supply or manufacturing capacity that increase our
    costs or cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders, could
    have a material adverse impact on our business and operating
    results, and our failure to estimate customer demand properly
    may result in excess or obsolete component supply, which could
    adversely affect our gross margins.


 


    The fact that we do not own or operate our manufacturing
    facilities and supply chain exposes us to risks, including
    reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and
    product supply, which could have a material adverse impact on
    the supply of our products and on our business and operating
    results.


 


    Financial problems of either contract manufacturers or component
    suppliers could limit supply, increase costs, or result in
    accelerated payment terms. The loss of any contract manufacturer
    or key supplier could negatively impact our ability to
    manufacture and sell our products. Qualifying a new contract
    manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and
    time-consuming. If we are required to change contract
    manufacturers, we may lose revenue and damage our customer
    relationships. Disruption or termination of manufacturing
    capacity or component supply could delay shipments of our
    products and could materially and adversely affect our operating
    results. Such delays could also damage relationships with
    current and prospective customers and suppliers, and our
    competitive position and reputation could be harmed.


 


    A return to growth in the economy is likely to put greater
    pressures on us, our contract manufacturers and our suppliers to
    accurately project demand and to establish optimal purchase
    commitment levels. Additionally, the reservation of
    manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other
    companies, inside or outside of our industry, or the inability
    by us to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our
    manufacturing or components requirements based upon business
    needs could result in either limitation of supply or increased
    costs from these suppliers.


 


    If we inaccurately forecast demand for our products or if there
    is lack of demand for our products, we may have excess or
    inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or penalties,
    which would increase our costs and have an adverse impact on our
    gross margins.


 


    We rely on a limited number of suppliers for components such as
    disk drives, computer boards and microprocessors utilized in the
    assembly of our products. In recent years, rapid industry
    consolidation has led to fewer component suppliers, which has
    and could subject us to future periodic supply constraints and
    price rigidity.


 


    Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase
    commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase
    components at prices that are higher than those available in the
    current market, or in amounts greater than



    
    20



Table of Contents




    our needs. In the event that we become committed to purchase
    components at prices in excess of the current market price when
    the components are actually used, or are committed to buy
    components in amounts greater than our needs, our gross margins
    could decrease.


 


    Component quality is a risk and is particularly significant with
    respect to our suppliers of disk drives. In order to meet
    product performance requirements, we must obtain disk drives of
    extremely high quality and capacity.


 


    As suppliers upgrade their components, they regularly “end
    of life” older components. As we become aware of an end of
    life situation, we attempt to make purchases or purchase
    commitments to cover all future requirements or find a suitable
    substitute component. We may not be able to obtain a sufficient
    supply of components on a timely and cost effective basis. Our
    failure to do so may lead to an adverse impact on our business.
    On the other hand, if we fail to anticipate customer demand
    properly or if there is reduced demand or no demand for our
    products, an oversupply of end of life components could result
    in excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our
    gross margins.


 


    We intend to regularly introduce new products and product
    enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume
    production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and
    suppliers. We may need to increase our material purchases,
    contract manufacturing capacity and quality functions to meet
    anticipated demand. The inability of our contract manufacturers
    or our component suppliers to provide us with adequate supplies
    of high-quality products and materials suitable for our needs
    could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders.


 



    Our
    acquisitions may not provide the anticipated benefits and may
    disrupt our existing business.


 


    As part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating
    opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would
    complement our current products, expand the breadth of our
    markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. On May 20,
    2009, we announced that we have entered into a definitive
    agreement to acquire Data Domain, Inc. (“Data
    Domain”). We subsequently amended the terms of the
    definitive agreement on June 3, 2009.


 


    The success of this and any future acquisition is impacted by a
    number of factors, and may be subject to the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The inability to successfully integrate the operations,
    technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    The diversion of management’s attention from normal daily
    operations of the business;




 



     
        • 

    
    The loss of key employees; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Substantial transaction costs and accounting charges.




 



     
        • 

    
    Exposure to litigation related to acquisitions. For example, see
    the lawsuit related to Data Domain described in Part I,
    Item 3 Legal Proceedings below.





 


    This and any future acquisitions may also result in risks to our
    existing business, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Dilution of our current stockholders’ percentage ownership
    to the extent we issue new equity;




 



     
        • 

    
    Assumption of additional liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Incurrence of additional debt or a decline in available cash;
    adverse effects to our financial statements, such as the need to
    make large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of
    restructuring and other related expenses;




 



     
        • 

    
    Liability for intellectual property infringement and other
    litigation claims, which we may or may not be aware of at the
    time of acquisition; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Creation of goodwill or other intangible assets that could
    result in significant future amortization expense or impairment
    charges.





 


    In addition, failure to complete the Data Domain acquisition as
    planned could negatively impact our stock price.


 


    The failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of an
    acquisition may also result in impairment charges for goodwill
    or acquired intangibles. For example, in fiscal 2009 we
    announced our decision to cease the development



    
    21



Table of Contents




    and availability of our SMOS product, which was originally
    acquired through our acquisition of Topio, Inc.
    (“Topio”) in fiscal 2007, resulting in the impairment
    of acquired intangibles related to such acquisition. Additional
    or realized risks of this nature could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    The occurrence of any of the above risks could seriously harm
    our business.


 



    We are
    exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio
    investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments
    could harm our financial results.


 


    At April 24, 2009, we had $2.6 billion in cash, cash
    equivalents, available-for-sale securities and restricted cash
    and investments. We invest our cash in a variety of financial
    instruments, consisting principally of investments in
    U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government agency
    bonds, corporate bonds, corporate securities, auction rate
    securities, certificates of deposit, and money market funds,
    including the Primary Fund. These investments are subject to
    general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which
    have been exacerbated by unusual events such as the financial
    and credit crisis, and bankruptcy filings in the United States
    which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and
    led to global credit and liquidity issues. These securities are
    generally classified as “available-for-sale” and,
    consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at
    fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a
    component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net
    of tax.


 


    Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest
    earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed
    rate debt securities may have their market value adversely
    impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate
    securities may produce less income than expected if interest
    rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment
    income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest
    rates. Currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments
    in our investment portfolio. We may suffer losses if forced to
    sell securities that have experienced a decline in market value
    because of changes in interest rates. Currently, we do not use
    financial derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure.


 


    The fair value of our investments may change significantly due
    to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets.
    These securities/issuers could be subject to review for possible
    downgrade. Any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in
    an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our
    investments. Changes in the various assumptions used to value
    these securities and any increase in the markets’ perceived
    risk associated with such investments may also result in a
    decline in estimated fair value. If such investments suffer
    market price declines, as we experienced with some of our
    investments during fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the
    decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost
    basis when the decline is judged to be
    other-than-temporary.


 


    As a result of the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers, which
    occurred during fiscal 2009, we recorded an other-than-temporary
    impairment charge of $11.8 million on our corporate bonds
    related to investments in Lehman Brothers securities and
    approximately $9.3 million on our investments in the
    Primary Fund that held Lehman Brothers investments. As of
    April 24, 2009, we have an investment in the Primary Fund,
    an AAA-rated money market fund at the time of purchase, with a
    par value of $60.9 million and an estimated fair value of
    $51.6 million, which suspended redemptions in September
    2008 and is in the process of liquidating its portfolio of
    investments. We received total distributions of
    $546.3 million during fiscal 2009 from the Primary Fund. On
    December 3, 2008, it announced a plan for liquidation and
    distribution of assets that includes the establishment of a
    special reserve to be set aside out of its assets for pending or
    threatened claims, as well as anticipated costs and expenses,
    including related legal and accounting fees. On
    February 26, 2009, the Primary Fund announced a plan to set
    aside $3.5 billion of the fund’s remaining assets as
    the “special reserve” which may be increased or
    decreased as further information becomes available. The Primary
    Fund has received an SEC order providing that the SEC will
    supervise the distribution of assets from the Primary Fund. Our
    pro rata share of the $3.5 billion special reserve is
    approximately $41.5 million. The Primary Fund plans to
    continue to make periodic distributions, up to the amount of the
    special reserve, on a pro-rata basis. We could realize
    additional losses in our holdings of the Primary Fund and may
    not receive all or a portion of our remaining balance in the
    Primary Fund as a result of market conditions and ongoing
    litigation against the fund.



    
    22



Table of Contents




    If the conditions in the credit and capital markets continue to
    worsen, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could
    determine that more of our investments have experienced an
    other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring further
    impairments, which could adversely impact our financial position
    and operating results.


 



    Funds
    associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not
    be accessible for more than 12 months and our auction rate
    securities may experience further other-than-temporary declines
    in value, which would adversely affect our
    earnings.


 


    Auction rate securities (“ARS”) held by us are
    securities with long-term nominal maturities, which, in
    accordance with investment policy guidelines, had credit ratings
    of AAA and Aaa at time of purchase. Interest rates for ARS are
    reset through a “Dutch auction” each month, which
    prior to February 2008 had provided a liquid market for these
    securities.


 


    Substantially all of our ARS are backed by pools of student
    loans guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education, and
    we believe the credit quality of these securities is high based
    on this guarantee. However liquidity issues in the global credit
    markets resulted in the failure of auctions for certain of our
    ARS investments, with a par value of $73.3 million at
    April 24, 2009. For each failed auction, the interest rate
    resets to a maximum rate defined for each security, and the ARS
    continue to pay interest in accordance with their terms,
    although the principal associated with the ARS will not be
    accessible until there is a successful auction or such time as
    other markets for ARS investments develop.


 


    As of April 24, 2009, we determined there was a total
    decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of
    approximately $8.8 million, of which we recorded temporary
    impairment charges of $7.0 million, offset by unrealized
    gains of $0.3 million, and $2.1 million was recognized
    as an other-than-temporary impairment charge. In addition, we
    have classified all of our auction rate securities as long-term
    assets in our consolidated balance sheets of April 24, 2009
    as our ability to liquidate such securities in the next
    12 months is uncertain. Although we currently have the
    ability and intent to hold these ARS investments until recovery
    in market value or until maturity, if the current market
    conditions deteriorate further, or the anticipated recovery in
    market liquidity does not occur, we may be required to record
    additional impairment charges in future quarters.


 



    Our
    leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    As a result of our sale of $1.265 billion of 1.75%
    convertible senior notes in June 2008 (the “Notes”),
    we have a greater amount of long-term debt than we have
    maintained in the past. We also have a credit facility and
    various synthetic lease arrangements. In addition, subject to
    the restrictions in our existing and any future financings
    agreements, we may incur additional debt.


 


    Our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have
    adverse consequences including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Adversely affecting our ability to satisfy our obligations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Increasing the portion of our cash flows from operations may
    have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may
    not be available for operations, working capital, capital
    expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or
    other purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the
    future;




 



     
        • 

    
    Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and industry; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Making us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our
    industry or the economy in general.





 


    Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will
    depend on our future performance, which will be affected by
    financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We
    will not be able to control many of these factors, such as
    economic conditions and governmental regulations. Furthermore,
    our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows from
    operations to enable us to meet our expenses and service our
    debt. As a result, we may be required to repatriate funds from
    our foreign subsidiaries, which could result in a significant
    tax liability to us. If we are unable to generate sufficient
    cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to repatriate
    sufficient or any funds from our foreign subsidiaries, in order
    to meet our expenses and debt service obligations, we may need
    to utilize our existing line of credit to obtain the necessary
    funds, or we may be required to raise additional funds. If we
    determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any
    reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding
    is



    
    23



Table of Contents




    available, obtain it on acceptable terms. If we fail to make a
    payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and
    this default could cause us to be in default on our other
    outstanding indebtedness.


 



    We are
    subject to restrictive and financial covenants in our credit
    facility and synthetic lease arrangements. The restrictive
    covenants may restrict our ability to operate our
    business.


 


    Our access to undrawn amounts under our credit facility and the
    ongoing extension of credit under our synthetic lease
    arrangements are subject to continued compliance with financial
    covenants, which could be more challenging in a difficult
    operating environment. If we do not comply with these
    restrictive and financial covenants or otherwise default under
    the facility or arrangements, we may be required to repay any
    outstanding amounts under this credit facility or repurchase the
    properties and facility which are subject to the synthetic lease
    arrangements. If we lose access to these credit facility and
    synthetic lease arrangements, we may not be able to obtain
    alternative financing on acceptable terms, which could limit our
    operating flexibility.


 


    The agreements governing our credit facility and synthetic lease
    arrangements contain restrictive covenants that limit our
    ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our
    ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Incur indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    Incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level;




 



     
        • 

    
    Grant liens;




 



     
        • 

    
    Sell all or substantially all our assets:




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into certain mergers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Change our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into swap agreements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into transactions with our affiliates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Enter into certain restrictive agreements.





 


    As a result of these restrictive covenants, our ability to
    respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to
    obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly
    restricted. We may also be prevented from engaging in
    transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, such as
    strategic acquisitions or joint ventures.


 


    We are also required to comply with financial covenants under
    our credit facility and synthetic lease arrangements, and our
    ability to comply with these financial covenants is dependent on
    our future performance, which will be subject to many factors,
    some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing
    economic conditions.


 


    Our failure to comply with the restrictive and financial
    covenants could result in a default under our credit facility
    and our synthetic lease arrangements, which would give the
    counterparties thereto the ability to exercise certain rights,
    including the right to accelerate the amounts owed thereunder
    and to terminate the arrangement, and could also result in a
    cross default with respect to our other indebtedness. In
    addition, our failure to comply with these covenants and the
    acceleration of amounts owed under our credit facility and
    synthetic lease arrangements could result in a default under the
    Notes, which could permit the holders to accelerate the Notes.
    If all of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient
    funds available to repay such debt.


 



    Future
    issuances of common stock and hedging activities by holders of
    the Notes may depress the trading price of our common stock and
    the Notes.


 


    Any new issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of
    shares upon conversion of the Notes, could dilute the interests
    of our existing stockholders, including holders who receive
    shares upon conversion of their Notes, and could substantially
    decrease the trading price of our common stock and the Notes. We
    may issue equity securities in the future for a number of
    reasons, including to finance our operations and business
    strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic
    collaborations or other transactions), to increase our capital,
    to adjust our



    
    24



Table of Contents




    ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the
    exercise of outstanding warrants or options, or for other
    reasons.


 


    In addition, the price of our common stock could also be
    affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who
    view the Notes as a more attractive means of equity
    participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading
    activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock by
    holders of the Notes. The hedging or arbitrage could, in turn,
    affect the trading price of the Notes, or any common stock that
    holders receive upon conversion of the Notes.


 



    Conversion
    of our Notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing
    stockholders.


 


    The conversion of some or all of our outstanding Notes will
    dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the
    extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the Notes.
    Upon conversion of a Note, we will satisfy our conversion
    obligation by delivering cash for the principal amount of the
    Note and shares of common stock, if any, to the extent the
    conversion value exceeds the principal amount. There would be no
    adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share
    computation for the cash settled portion of the Notes as that
    portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash.
    The number of shares delivered upon conversion, if any, will be
    included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net
    income per common share. Any sales in the public market of any
    common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely
    affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In
    addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling
    by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could
    be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of
    the Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the
    price of our common stock.


 



    The
    note hedges and warrant transactions that we entered into in
    connection with the sale of the Notes may affect the trading
    price of our common stock.


 


    In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into
    privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with
    certain option counterparties (the “Counterparties”),
    which are expected to reduce the potential dilution to our
    common stock upon any conversion of the Notes. At the same time,
    we also entered into warrant transactions with the
    Counterparties pursuant to which we may issue shares of our
    common stock above a certain strike price. In connection with
    these hedging transactions, the Counterparties may have entered
    into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with
    respect to our common stock or purchased shares of our common
    stock in secondary market transactions at or following the
    pricing of the Notes. Such activities may have had the effect of
    increasing the price of our common stock. The Counterparties are
    likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior
    to conversion or maturity of the Notes by purchasing and selling
    shares of our common stock or entering into other derivative
    transactions. Additionally, these transactions may expose us to
    counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. We manage our
    exposure to counterparty credit risk through specific minimum
    credit standards and the diversification of counterparties. The
    effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on
    the market price of our common stock or the Notes will depend,
    in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this
    time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the
    value of our common stock. In addition, if our stock price
    exceeds the strike price for the warrants, there could be
    additional dilution to our shareholders, which could adversely
    affect the value of our common stock.


 


    Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives, Inc. (“Lehman OTC”)
    is the counterparty to 20% of our Note hedges. The bankruptcy
    filing by Lehman OTC on October 3, 2008 constituted an
    “event of default” under the hedge transaction that
    could, at our option, lead to termination under the hedge
    transaction to the extent we provide notice to Lehman OTC.
    We have not terminated the Note hedge transaction with Lehman
    OTC, and will continue to carefully monitor the developments
    impacting Lehman OTC. This “event of default” is not
    expected to have an impact on our financial position or results
    of operations. However, we could incur significant costs if we
    elect to replace this hedge transaction originally held with
    Lehman OTC. If we do not elect to replace this hedge
    transaction, then we would be subject to potential dilution upon
    conversion of the Notes if on the date of conversion the
    per-share market price of our common stock exceeds the
    conversion price of $31.85. The terms of the Notes, the rights
    of the holders of the Notes and other counterparties to Note
    hedges and warrants were not affected by the bankruptcy filings
    of Lehman OTC.



    
    25



Table of Contents





    Our
    synthetic leases are off-balance sheet arrangements that could
    negatively affect our financial condition and results. We have
    invested substantial resources in new facilities and physical
    infrastructure, which will increase our fixed costs. Our
    operating results could be harmed if our business does not grow
    proportionately to our increase in fixed costs.


 


    We have various synthetic lease arrangements with BNP Paribas
    Leasing Corporation as lessor (“BBPPLC”) for our
    headquarters office buildings and land in Sunnyvale, California.
    On April 1, 2009, we terminated two of the synthetic lease
    arrangements in an effort to manage our capital structure in
    light of the current economic environment. The lease payments
    commitments associated with the remaining arrangements as of the
    termination date totaled $141.1 million through fiscal
    2013. These synthetic leases qualify for operating lease
    accounting treatment under SFAS No. 13,
    “Accounting for Leases (as amended),” and are not
    considered variable interest entities under
    FIN No. 46R “Consolidation of Variable Interest
    Entities (revised).” Therefore, we do not include the
    properties or the associated debt on our condensed consolidated
    balance sheet. However, if circumstances were to change
    regarding our or BNPPLC’s ownership of the properties, or
    in BNPPLC’s overall portfolio, we could be required to
    consolidate the entity, the leased facilities and the associated
    debt.


 


    Our future minimum lease payments under these synthetic leases
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business by restricting the funds available for use in
    addressing such changes. If we are unable to grow our business
    and revenues proportionately to our increase in fixed costs, our
    operating results will be harmed. If we elect not to purchase
    the properties at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed
    a minimum residual value to BNPPLC. Therefore, if the fair value
    of the properties declines below that guaranteed minimum
    residual value, our residual value guarantee would require us to
    pay the difference to BNPPLC, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and
    operating results.


 


    Reductions in headcount growth have resulted in excess capacity
    and vacant facilities. In addition, we may experience changes in
    our operations in the future that could result in additional
    excess capacity and vacant facilities. We will continue to be
    responsible for all carrying costs of these facilities’
    operating leases until such time as we can sublease these
    facilities or terminate the applicable leases based on the
    contractual terms of the operating lease agreements, and these
    costs may have an adverse effect on our business, operating
    results and financial condition.


 



    Risks
    inherent in our international operations could have a material
    adverse effect on our operating results.


 


    We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the
    United States. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived
    from sales outside of the U.S. During fiscal 2009 and 2008,
    our international revenues accounted for 48.5% and 47.1% of our
    total revenues, respectively. In addition, we have several
    research and development centers overseas, and a substantial
    portion of our products are manufactured outside of the
    U.S. Accordingly, our business and our future operating
    results could be materially and adversely affected by a variety
    of factors affecting our international operations, some of which
    are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or
    economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade
    protection measures and other regulatory requirements,
    government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and
    international conflicts. In addition, we may not be able to
    maintain or increase international market demand for our
    products.


 


    We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency
    exchange rates as a result of our international operations.
    These exposures may change over time as business practices
    evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial results and cash flows. Our international sales are
    denominated in U.S. dollars and in foreign currencies. An
    increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to
    foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and
    therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets.
    Conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in
    lower
    U.S.-based
    revenue. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar
    relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of local
    operating expenses. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging
    market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility.
    We utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign
    currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities
    as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows. All balance
    sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every
    quarter. The time-value component of our cash flow hedges is
    recorded in earnings while all other gains and losses are marked
    to market through other comprehensive income until forecasted
    transactions occur, at which time such realized gains and losses
    are recognized in earnings.



    
    26



Table of Contents




    These hedges attempt to reduce, but do not always entirely
    eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. Factors
    that could have an impact on the effectiveness of our hedging
    program include the accuracy of forecasts and the volatility of
    foreign currency markets as well as widening interest rate
    differentials and the volatility of the foreign exchange market.
    There can be no assurance that such hedging strategies will be
    successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not
    have a material adverse effect on our operating results.


 


    Additional risks inherent in our international business
    activities generally include, among others, longer accounts
    receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing
    international operations. Such factors could materially and
    adversely affect our future international sales and consequently
    our operating results. Our international operations are subject
    to other risks, including general import/export restrictions and
    the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy,
    misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our
    intellectual property rights than U.S. law.


 


    Moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with
    developing economies, it is common to engage in business
    practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us,
    such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement
    policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these
    laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those
    companies to which we outsource certain of our business
    operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any
    such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could
    subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
    results of operations.


 



    We
    have credit exposure to our hedging
    counterparties.


 


    In order to minimize volatility in earnings associated with
    fluctuations in the value of foreign currency relative to the
    U.S. Dollar, we utilize forward and option contracts to
    hedge our exposure to foreign currencies. As a result of
    entering into these hedging contracts with major financial
    institutions, we may be subject to counterparty nonperformance
    risk. Should there be a counterparty default, we could be
    exposed to the net losses on the original hedge contracts or be
    unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions.


 



    A
    significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents balances is
    held overseas. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash
    domestically in order to fund our U.S. operations and strategic
    opportunities and service our debt, we may incur a significant
    tax liability in order to repatriate the overseas cash balances,
    or we may need to raise additional capital in the
    future.


 


    A portion of our earnings which is generated from our
    international operations is held and invested by certain of our
    foreign subsidiaries. These amounts are not freely available for
    dividend repatriation to the United States without triggering
    significant adverse tax consequences, which could adversely
    affect our financial results. As a result, unless the cash
    generated by our domestic operations is sufficient to fund our
    domestic operations, our broader corporate initiatives such as
    stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other strategic
    opportunities, and to service our outstanding indebtedness, we
    may need to raise additional funds through public or private
    debt or equity financings, or we may need to expand our existing
    credit facility to the extent we choose not to repatriate our
    overseas cash. Such additional financing may not be available on
    terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings
    or offerings would dilute our current stockholders’
    ownership. Furthermore, lenders, particularly in light of the
    current challenges in the credit markets, may not agree to
    extend us new, additional or continuing credit. If adequate
    funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable
    terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign cash and incur
    a significant tax expense or we may not be able to take
    advantage of strategic opportunities, develop new products,
    respond to competitive pressures or repay our outstanding
    indebtedness. In any such case, our business, operating results
    or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.



    
    27



Table of Contents





    Changes
    in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from
    examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our
    results.


 


    Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are
    taxed at lower rates as compared to the U.S. statutory tax
    rate;




 



     
        • 

    
    Material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as
    a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses by
    tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective
    tax rates by tax jurisdiction that differ from our estimates;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changing tax laws or related interpretations, accounting
    standards, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax
    jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements
    of certain tax rulings;




 



     
        • 

    
    An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes,
    including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs
    of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment
    of goodwill;




 



     
        • 

    
    The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes related to our ability to ultimately realize future
    benefits attributed to our deferred tax assets, including those
    related to other-than-temporary impairments;




 



     
        • 

    
    Tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related
    tax interest or penalties could significantly affect our income
    tax expense for the period in which the settlements take
    place; and




 



     
        • 

    
    A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign
    earnings.





 


    We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our
    non-U.S. customers.
    These benefits are contingent upon existing tax regulations in
    the United States and in the countries in which our
    international operations are located. Future changes in domestic
    or international tax regulations could adversely affect our
    ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. We have not
    provided for United States federal and state income taxes or
    foreign withholding taxes that may result on future remittances
    of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Obama
    administration recently announced several proposals to reform
    United States tax rules, including proposals that may result in
    a reduction or elimination of the deferral of United States
    income tax on our future unrepatriated earnings. Absent a
    restructuring of some legal entities and their functionality,
    some of the future unrepatriated earnings would be taxed at the
    United States federal income tax rate.


 


    Additionally, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
    Circuit on May 27, 2009 held in Xilinx Inc. v.
    Commissioner that stock-based compensation must be included in
    the research and development cost base of companies that have
    entered into a cost sharing arrangement and must, therefore, be
    allocated among the participants based on anticipated benefits.
    The Court’s reversal of the prior U.S. Tax Court
    decision will impact our estimate of tax benefits that were
    required to be recognized under Financial Interpretation
    No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”
    (“FIN 48”). We are currently evaluating the
    impact of the Xilinx case on our provision for income taxes for
    the first quarter of fiscal 2010, but expect any final
    adjustment will be limited to a reduction of our unrecognized
    tax attributes.


 


    Our international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling
    concluded in the Netherlands, which expires in 2010. If we are
    unable to negotiate a similar tax ruling upon expiration of the
    current ruling, our effective tax rate could increase and our
    operating results could be adversely affected. Our effective tax
    rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving
    interpretations of existing law or regulations, which in turn
    would negatively impact our operating and financial results as a
    whole. Our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected
    if there is a change in international operations and how the
    operations are managed and structured. The price of our common
    stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are
    materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax
    rate.



    
    28



Table of Contents




    We are currently undergoing federal income tax audits in the
    United States and several foreign tax jurisdictions. The rights
    to some of our intellectual property (“IP”) are owned
    by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made
    between U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the
    use of this IP in a qualified cost sharing arrangement. In
    recent years, several other U.S. companies have had their
    foreign IP arrangements challenged as part of IRS examinations,
    which has resulted in material proposed assessments
    and/or
    pending litigation with respect to those companies. During
    fiscal 2009, we received Notices of Proposed Adjustments from
    the IRS in connection with federal income tax audits conducted
    with respect to our fiscal 2003 and 2004 tax years. If the
    ultimate determination of income taxes assessed under the
    current IRS audit or under audits being conducted in any of the
    other tax jurisdictions in which we operate results in an amount
    in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for,
    our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could
    be adversely affected.


 



    We may
    face increased risks and uncertainties related to our current or
    future investments in nonmarketable securities of private
    companies, and these investments may not achieve our
    objectives.


 


    On occasion, we make strategic investments in nonmarketable
    securities of development stage entities. As of April 24,
    2009, the carrying value of our investments in nonmarketable
    securities totaled $4.0 million. Investments in
    nonmarketable securities are inherently risky, and some of these
    companies are likely to fail. Their success (or lack thereof) is
    dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational
    efficiency and other key business success factors. In addition,
    depending on these companies’ future prospects, they may
    not be able to raise additional funds when needed, or they may
    receive lower valuations, with less favorable investment terms
    than in previous financings, and our investments in them would
    likely become impaired. We could lose our entire investment in
    these companies. For example, during fiscal 2009 we determined
    that our investments in nonmarketable securities of two
    companies had been impaired, and we recorded impairment charges
    of $6.3 million.


 



    If we
    are unable to establish fair value for any undelivered element
    of a sales arrangement, all or a portion of the revenue relating
    to the arrangement could be deferred to future
    periods.


 


    In the course of our sales efforts, we often enter into multiple
    element arrangements that include our systems and one or more of
    the following undelivered software-related elements: software
    entitlements and maintenance, premium hardware maintenance, and
    storage review services. If we are required to change the
    pricing of our software related elements through discounting, or
    otherwise introduce variability in the pricing of such elements,
    we may be unable to maintain Vendor Specific Objective Evidence
    of fair value of the undelivered elements of the arrangement,
    and would therefore be required to delay the recognition of all
    or a portion of the related arrangement. A delay in the
    recognition of revenue may cause fluctuations in our financial
    results and may adversely affect our operating margins.


 



    Our
    business could be materially and adversely affected as a result
    of a natural disaster, terrorist acts or other catastrophic
    events.


 


    We depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials,
    equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the
    world. Any political, military, world health or other issue that
    hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of
    materials could lead to significant business disruptions.
    Furthermore, any strike, economic failure or other material
    disruption caused by fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, power
    shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar
    events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct
    business. If such disruptions result in cancellations of
    customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic
    activity or corporate spending on information technology, or
    directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and
    logistics functions, our results of operations and financial
    condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition,
    our headquarters are located in Northern California, an area
    susceptible to earthquakes. If any significant disaster were to
    occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired.


 



    We
    depend on attracting and retaining qualified technical and sales
    personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain such
    personnel, our operating results could be materially and
    adversely impacted.


 


    Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to
    identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified technical and
    sales personnel. Because our future success is dependent on our
    ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we
    are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract,
    motivate and retain qualified engineers with the requisite
    education, background and industry experience. Competition for
    qualified



    
    29



Table of Contents




    engineers, particularly in Silicon Valley, can be intense. The
    loss of the services of a significant number of our engineers or
    salespeople could be disruptive to our development efforts or
    business relationships and could materially and adversely affect
    our operating results.


 



    Undetected
    software errors, hardware errors, or failures found in new
    products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of
    our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our
    revenues. Product quality problems could lead to reduced
    revenue, gross margins and operating results.


 


    Our products may contain undetected software errors, hardware
    errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are
    released. Despite testing by us and by current and potential
    customers, errors may not be found in new products until after
    commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or
    delay in market acceptance, which could materially and adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    If we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a
    failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal
    from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory
    costs or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have
    a material impact on our revenue, gross margins and operating
    results.


 


    In addition, we may be subject to losses that may result from or
    are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could
    subject us to claims for damages, including consequential
    damages. Based on our historical experience, we believe that the
    risk of exposure to product liability claims is low. However,
    should we experience increased exposure to product liability
    claims, our business could be adversely impacted.


 



    We are
    exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims
    and protection of intellectual property rights, which could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business,
    including our ongoing litigation with Sun Microsystems.
    Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal
    business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal
    proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution
    of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, operating results, or financial condition.


 


    If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be
    subject to increased competition that could materially and
    adversely affect our operating results. Our success depends
    significantly upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a
    combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets,
    confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents
    to protect our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our
    software, documentation and other written materials under trade
    secret, copyright and patent laws, which afford only limited
    protection. Some of our U.S. trademarks are registered
    internationally as well. We will continue to evaluate the
    registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We
    generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our
    employees and with our resellers, strategic partners and
    customers. We currently have multiple U.S. and
    international patent applications pending and multiple
    U.S. patents issued. The pending applications may not be
    approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged.
    If such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated.
    We may not be able to develop proprietary products or
    technologies that are patentable, or where any issued patent
    will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be
    challenged by third parties. Further, the patents of others may
    materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. In
    addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark
    registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and
    competitive position.


 


    Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary
    technology. Any such litigation may be time consuming and
    costly. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights,
    unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products
    or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In
    addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect
    proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the
    United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights
    may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop
    similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around
    patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of
    ours.


 


    We are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. We
    may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing
    third parties’ intellectual property rights. Third parties
    may in the future claim infringement by us with respect to
    current or future products, patents, trademarks or other
    proprietary rights. We expect that companies in the network
    storage market will increasingly be subject to infringement
    claims as the number of products and



    
    30



Table of Contents




    competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality
    of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such
    claims could be time consuming, result in costly litigation,
    cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our
    products or enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of
    which could materially and adversely affect our operating
    results. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may
    not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all.


 



    We are
    continually seeking ways to make our cost structure more
    efficient, including moving activities from higher- to
    lower-cost owned locations, as well as outsourcing certain
    business process functions. Problems with the execution of these
    changes could have an adverse effect on our business or results
    of operations.


 


    We continuously seek to make our cost structure more efficient.
    We are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and
    scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging
    our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills
    worldwide. For example, certain engineering activities and
    projects that were formally performed in the U.S. have been
    moved to lower cost international locations. The challenges
    involved with these initiatives include executing business
    functions in accordance with local laws and other obligations
    while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures.


 


    In addition, we will rely on partners or third party service
    providers for the provision of certain business process
    functions in IT and accounting, and as a result, we may incur
    increased business continuity risks. For example, we may no
    longer be able to exercise control over some aspects of the
    future development, support or maintenance of outsourced
    operations and processes, including the internal controls
    associated with those outsourced business operations and
    processes, which could adversely affect our business. If we are
    unable to effectively utilize or integrate and interoperate with
    external resources or if our partners or third party service
    providers experience business difficulties or are unable to
    provide business process services as anticipated, we may need to
    seek alternative service providers or resume providing these
    business processes internally, which could be costly and time
    consuming and have a material adverse effect on our operating
    results.


 



    Our
    business could be materially adversely affected by changes in
    regulations or standards regarding energy efficiency of our
    products.


 


    We continually seek ways to increase the energy efficiency of
    our products. Recent analyses have estimated the amount of
    global carbon emissions that are due to information technology
    products. As a result, governmental and non-governmental
    organizations have turned their attention to development of
    regulations and standards to drive technological improvements
    and reduce such amount of carbon emissions. There is a risk that
    the rush to development of these standards will not fully
    address the complexity of the technology developed by the IT
    industry or will favor certain technological approaches.
    Depending on the regulations or standards that are ultimately
    adopted, compliance could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition or operating results.


 



    Our
    business is subject to increasingly complex corporate
    governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements
    that have increased both our costs and the risk of
    noncompliance.


 


    Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to
    certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial
    market exchange entities charged with the protection of
    investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are
    publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and NASDAQ, have
    implemented requirements and regulations and continue developing
    additional regulations and requirements in response to corporate
    scandals and laws enacted by Congress, most notably the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these
    regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue
    resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and
    diversion of management time and attention from
    revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.


 


    We completed our evaluation of our internal controls over
    financial reporting for the fiscal year ended April 24,
    2009 as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002. Although our assessment, testing and evaluation
    resulted in our conclusion that as of April 24, 2009, our
    internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we
    cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If
    our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our
    business and reputation could be harmed. We may incur additional
    expenses and commitment of



    
    31



Table of Contents




    management’s time in connection with further evaluations,
    either of which could materially increase our operating expenses
    and accordingly reduce our operating results.


 


    Because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are
    subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their
    lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve
    over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and
    governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing
    uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs
    necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and
    governance practices.


 



    Changes
    in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected
    fluctuations and affect our reported results of
    operations.


 


    A change in accounting standards or practices and varying
    interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as
    the increased use of fair value measures and the potential
    requirement that U.S. registrants prepare financial
    statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting
    Standards (IFRS), could have a significant effect on our
    reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B