Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors


 


    The following risk factors and other information included in
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
    described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks
    and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently
    deem less significant may also impair our business operations.
    Please see page 2 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for additional discussion of these forward-looking statements.
    If any of the following risks actually occur, our business,
    operating results, and financial condition could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    Factors
    beyond our control could cause our quarterly results to
    fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock
    price.


 


    We believe that
    period-to-period
    comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily
    meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future
    performance. Many of the factors that could cause our quarterly
    operating results to fluctuate significantly in the future are
    beyond our control and include, but are not limited to, the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changes in general economic conditions and specific economic
    conditions in the computer, storage, and networking industries



 


     
        • 

    
    General decrease in global corporate spending on information
    technology leading to a decline in demand for our products



 


     
        • 

    
    A shift in federal government spending patterns



 


     
        • 

    
    The possible effects of terrorist activity and international
    conflicts, which could lead to business interruptions and
    difficulty in forecasting



 


     
        • 

    
    The level of competition in our target product markets






    
    19



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers due to industry
    consolidation, which could subject us to periodic
    supply-and-demand,
    price rigidity and quality issues with our components



 


     
        • 

    
    The size, timing, and cancellation of significant orders



 


     
        • 

    
    Product configuration and mix



 


     
        • 

    
    The extent to which our customers renew their service and
    maintenance contracts with us



 


     
        • 

    
    Market acceptance of new products and product enhancements



 


     
        • 

    
    Announcements, introductions, and transitions of new products by
    us or our competitors



 


     
        • 

    
    Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or
    product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in pricing by us in response to competitive pricing
    actions



 


     
        • 

    
    Our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and
    enhancements in a timely manner



 


     
        • 

    
    Supply constraints



 


     
        • 

    
    Technological changes in our target product markets



 


     
        • 

    
    The levels of expenditure on research and development and sales
    and marketing programs



 


     
        • 

    
    Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions



 


     
        • 

    
    Excess or inadequate facilities



 


     
        • 

    
    Disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we
    continue to enhance and adapt our system infrastructure to
    accommodate future growth



 


     
        • 

    
    Future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting
    policies



 


     
        • 

    
    Seasonality





 


    In addition, sales for any future quarter may vary and
    accordingly be different from what we forecast. We manufacture
    products based on a combination of specific order requirements
    and forecasts of our customer demands. Products are typically
    shipped within one to four weeks following receipt of an order.
    In certain circumstances, customers may cancel or reschedule
    orders without penalty. Product sales are also difficult to
    forecast because the storage and data management market is
    rapidly evolving and our sales cycle varies substantially from
    customer to customer.


 


    We derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from
    orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings typically follow
    intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted towards the back-end
    of the quarter. If we do not achieve bookings in the latter part
    of a quarter consistent with our quarterly financial targets,
    our financial results will be adversely impacted.


 


    Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in one
    or more future quarters our results may fall below our forecasts
    and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In
    such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely
    decrease.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to
    technological change, if our new products do not achieve market
    acceptance, or if we fail to manage the transition between our
    new and old products, our operating results could be materially
    and adversely affected.


 


    Our future growth depends upon the successful development and
    introduction of new hardware and software products. Due to the
    complexity of storage subsystems and storage security
    appliances, and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort
    required to produce new products, such products are subject to
    significant technical risks. However, our new products may not
    achieve market acceptance. Additional product introductions in
    future periods may also impact our sales of existing products.
    In addition, our new products must respond to technological
    changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable, for
    technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new



    
    20



Table of Contents




    products in a timely manner in response to changing market
    conditions or customer requirements, or if such products do not
    achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 


    As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully
    manage the transition from older products in order to minimize
    disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive
    levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough
    supplies of new products can be delivered to meet
    customers’ demands.


 



    An
    increase in competition could materially and adversely affect
    our operating results.


 


    The storage markets are intensely competitive and are
    characterized by rapidly changing technology.


 


    In the storage market, our primary and nearline storage system
    products and our associated storage software portfolio compete
    primarily with storage system products and data management
    software from EMC, HDS, H-P, IBM, and Sun Microsystems. We also
    see Dell, Inc. as an emerging competitor in the storage
    marketplace, primarily due to a business partnership that has
    been established between Dell and EMC, allowing Dell to resell
    EMC storage hardware and software products. We have also
    historically encountered less-frequent competition from
    companies including Engenio Information Technologies, Inc.
    (formerly the Storage Systems Group of LSI Logic Corp.), Dot
    Hill Systems Corporation, and Xiotech Corporation. In the
    secondary storage market, which includes the
    disk-to-disk
    backup, compliance and business continuity segments, our
    solutions compete primarily against products from EMC and Sun
    Microsystems, as a result of their acquisition of StorageTek
    Technology Corporation. Our NearStore VTL appliances also
    compete directly with traditional tape backup solutions in the
    broader data backup/recovery space.


 


    In the content delivery market, our NetCache appliances and
    content delivery software compete against caching appliance and
    content delivery software vendors including BlueCoat Systems
    (formerly CacheFlow, Inc.) and Cisco Systems. On June 22,
    2006, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Blue Coat
    Systems, Inc. to sell certain assets of the NetCache business.
    See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financials Statements
    accompanying this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Our NetCache business is also subject to indirect competition
    from content delivery service products such as those offered by
    Akamai Technologies.


 


    Additionally, a number of new, privately held companies are
    currently attempting to enter the storage systems and data
    management software markets, the nearline and VTL storage
    markets, some of which may become significant competitors in the
    future.


 


    We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the
    storage markets include product benefits such as response time,
    reliability, data availability, scalability, ease of use, price,
    multiprotocol capabilities, and global service and support. We
    must continue to maintain and enhance this technological
    advantage over our competitors. If those competitors with
    greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical, and
    other resources were able to offer products that matched or
    surpassed the technological capabilities of our products, these
    competitors would, by virtue of their greater resources, gain a
    competitive advantage over us that could lead to greater sales
    for these competitors at the expense of our own market share,
    which would have a material adverse affect on our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations.


 


    Increased competition could also result in price reductions,
    reduced gross margins, and loss of market share, any of which
    could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our
    competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to
    new or emerging technologies and changes in customer
    requirements or devote greater resources to the development,
    promotion, sale, and support of their products. In addition,
    current and potential competitors have established or may
    establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with
    third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors
    or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire
    significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be
    able to compete successfully against current or future
    competitors. Competitive pressures we face could materially and
    adversely affect our operating results.



    
    21



Table of Contents





    We
    rely on a limited number of suppliers, and any disruption or
    termination of these supply arrangements could delay shipment of
    our products and could materially and adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    We rely on a limited number of suppliers of several key
    components utilized in the assembly of our products. We purchase
    our disk drives through several suppliers. We purchase computer
    boards and microprocessors from a limited number of suppliers.
    Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several
    risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required
    components because we do not have long-term supply commitments



 


     
        • 

    
    Supplier capacity constraints



 


     
        • 

    
    Price increases



 


     
        • 

    
    Timely delivery



 


     
        • 

    
    Component quality





 


    Component quality is particularly significant with respect to
    our suppliers of disk drives. In order to meet product
    performance requirements, we must obtain disk drives of
    extremely high quality and capacity. In addition, there are
    periodic
    supply-and-demand
    issues for disk drives, microprocessors, and semiconductor
    memory components, which could result in component shortages,
    selective supply allocations, and increased prices of such
    components. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain
    our full requirements of such components in the future or that
    prices of such components will not increase. In addition,
    problems with respect to yield and quality of such components
    and timeliness of deliveries could occur. Disruption or
    termination of the supply of these components could delay
    shipments of our products and could materially and adversely
    affect our operating results. Such delays could also damage
    relationships with current, prospective customers and suppliers.


 


    In addition, we license certain technology and software from
    third parties that is incorporated into our products. If we are
    unable to obtain or license the technology and software on a
    timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products to our
    customers in a timely manner.


 



    The
    loss of any contract manufacturers or the failure to accurately
    forecast demand for our products or successfully manage our
    relationships with our contract manufacturers could negatively
    impact our ability to manufacture and sell our
    products.


 


    We currently rely on several contract manufacturers to
    manufacture most of our products. Our reliance on our
    third-party contract manufacturers reduces our control over the
    manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced
    control over quality assurance, production costs, and product
    supply. If we should fail to effectively manage our
    relationships with our contract manufacturers, or if our
    contract manufacturers experience delays, disruptions, capacity
    constraints, or quality control problems in their manufacturing
    operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could
    be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be
    harmed. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing
    volume production are expensive and time-consuming. If we are
    required to change contract manufacturers or assume internal
    manufacturing operations, we may lose revenue and damage our
    customer relationships. If we inaccurately forecast demand for
    our products, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or
    incur cancellation charges or penalties, which could adversely
    impact our operating results. As of April 30, 2006, we have
    no purchase commitment under these agreements.


 


    We intend to regularly introduce new products and product
    enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume
    production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and
    suppliers. We may need to increase our material purchases,
    contract manufacturing capacity, and internal test and quality
    functions to meet anticipated demand. The inability of our
    contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of
    high-quality products, or the inability to obtain raw materials,
    could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders.



    
    22



Table of Contents





    Our
    future financial performance depends on growth in the storage,
    and data management markets. If these markets do not continue to
    grow at the rates at which we forecast growth, our operating
    results will be materially and adversely impacted.


 


    All of our products address the storage and data management
    markets. Accordingly, our future financial performance will
    depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data
    management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging
    standards in these markets. We cannot assure you that the
    markets for storage and data management will continue to grow or
    that emerging standards in these markets will not adversely
    affect the growth of UNIX, Windows, and the World Wide Web
    server markets upon which we depend.


 


    For example, we provide our open access data retention solutions
    to customers within the financial services, healthcare,
    pharmaceuticals, and government market segments, industries that
    are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with
    respect to data access, reliability, and permanence (such as
    Rule 17(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended) in the United States and in the other countries in
    which we operate. If our products do not meet, and continue to
    comply with, these evolving governmental regulations in this
    regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will
    not purchase our products, and, therefore, we will not be able
    to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical
    segments at the rates for which we have forecast.


 


    In addition, our business also depends on general economic and
    business conditions. A reduction in demand for storage and data
    management caused by weakening economic conditions and decreases
    in corporate spending will result in decreased revenues and
    lower revenue growth rates. The network storage market growth
    declined significantly beginning in the third quarter of fiscal
    2001 through fiscal 2003, causing both our revenues and
    operating results to decline. If the storage and data management
    markets grow more slowly than anticipated or if emerging
    standards other than those adopted by us become increasingly
    accepted by these markets, our operating results could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Our
    gross margins may vary based on the configuration of our product
    and service solutions, and such variation may make it more
    difficult to forecast our earnings.


 


    We derive a significant portion of our sales from the resale of
    disk drives as components of our storage systems, and the resale
    market for hard disk drives is highly competitive and subject to
    intense pricing pressures. Our sales of disk drives generate
    lower gross margin percentages than those of our storage
    systems. As a result, as we sell more highly configured systems
    with greater disk drive content, overall gross margin
    percentages may be negatively affected.


 


    Our gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a
    variety of other factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Demand for storage and data management products



 


     
        • 

    
    Discount levels and price competition



 


     
        • 

    
    Direct versus indirect and OEM sales



 


     
        • 

    
    Product and add-on software mix



 


     
        • 

    
    The mix of services as a percentage of revenue



 


     
        • 

    
    The mix and average selling prices of products



 


     
        • 

    
    The mix of disk content



 


     
        • 

    
    New product introductions and enhancements






    
    23



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Excess inventory purchase commitments as a result of changes in
    demand forecasts and possible product and software defects as we
    transition our products



 


     
        • 

    
    The cost of components, manufacturing labor, and quality





 


    Changes in service gross margins may result from various factors
    such as continued investments in our customer support
    infrastructure, changes in the mix between technical support
    services and professional services, as well as the timing of
    technical support service contract initiations and renewals.


 



    Our
    effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could
    increase our income tax expense and reduce our net
    income.


 


    Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are
    taxed at lower rates as compared to the United States statutory
    tax rate



 


     
        • 

    
    Material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as
    a result of a shift in the mix of pre-tax profits and losses by
    tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective
    tax rates by tax jurisdiction different than our estimates



 


     
        • 

    
    Changing tax laws, accounting standards, including
    SFAS No. 123R, regulations, and interpretations in
    multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the
    requirements of certain tax rulings



 


     
        • 

    
    An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes,
    including certain stock compensation, write-offs of acquired
    in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill



 


     
        • 

    
    The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws



 


     
        • 

    
    Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could
    significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in
    which the settlements take place



 


     
        • 

    
    A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign
    earnings





 


    The price of our common stock could decline to the extent that
    our financial results are materially affected by an adverse
    change in our effective tax rate. We have been notified of
    examinations in the U.S. and several foreign tax jurisdictions.
    The rights to some of our intellectual property (“IP”)
    is owned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments
    are made between U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to
    the use of this IP. Recently, some other companies have had
    their foreign IP arrangements challenged as part of an
    examination. Our management does not believe, based upon
    information currently known to us that the final resolution of
    any of our audits will have a material adverse effect upon our
    consolidated financial position and the results of operations
    and cash flows. If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed
    in any of these tax jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of
    the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our
    operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be
    adversely affected.


 



    We may
    incur problems with current or future acquisitions and equity
    investments, and these investments may not achieve our
    objectives.


 


    As part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating
    opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would
    complement our current products, expand the breadth of our
    markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. We may engage in
    future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders’
    investments and cause us to use cash, to incur debt, or to
    assume contingent liabilities.



    
    24



Table of Contents




    Acquisitions of companies entail numerous risks, and we may not
    be able to successfully integrate acquired operations and
    products or realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale,
    or other value. Integration risks and issues may include, but
    not limited to, key personnel retention and assimilation,
    management distraction, technical development, and unexpected
    costs and liabilities, including goodwill impairment charges. In
    addition, we may be unable to recover strategic investments in
    development stage entities. Any such problems could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    and results of operation.


 


    From time to time, we also make equity investments for the
    promotion of business and strategic objectives. We have already
    made strategic investments in a number of storage and data
    management-related technology companies. Equity investments may
    result in the loss of investment capital. The market price and
    valuation of our equity investments in these companies may
    fluctuate due to market conditions and other circumstances over
    which we have little or no control. To the extent that the fair
    value of these securities is less than our cost over an extended
    period of time, our results of operations and financial position
    could be negatively impacted.


 



    We
    cannot assure you that our OEM relationship with IBM will
    generate significant revenue.


 


    In April 2005, we announced a strategic partner relationship
    with IBM. As part of the relationship, we entered into an
    original equipment manufacturing (OEM) agreement that enables
    IBM to sell IBM branded solutions based on Network Appliance
    unified and open network attached storage (NAS) and iSCSI/IP SAN
    solutions, including NearStore and the NetApp
    V-Series Systems, as well as associated software offerings.
    While this agreement is an element of our strategy to expand our
    reach into more customers and countries, we do not have an
    exclusive relationship with IBM and there is no minimum
    commitment for any given period of time, and therefore, we
    cannot assure you that this relationship will contribute any
    revenue in future years. In addition, we have no control over
    the products IBM selects to sell, their release schedule and
    timing of those products, nor do we control their pricing.
    Revenues from the IBM relationship were not significant during
    fiscal 2006 and accounted for approximately 1.0% of our total
    consolidated revenue. In the event that sales through IBM were
    to gain significant traction, we may experience distribution
    channel conflicts between our direct sales force and IBM, or
    among our channel partners. If we fail to minimize channel
    conflicts, our operating results and financial condition could
    be harmed. In addition, since this agreement is relatively new,
    we do not have a history upon which to base our analysis of its
    future success.


 


    Currently we do not, and cannot assure you that this OEM
    relationship will generate significant revenue or that this
    strategic partnership will continue to be in effect for any
    specific period of time.


 



    If we
    are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop
    new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenue may
    be impacted negatively.


 


    An element of our strategy to increase revenue is to
    strategically partner with major third-party software and
    hardware vendors that integrate our products into their products
    and also comarket our products with these vendors. We have
    significant partner relationships with database, business
    application and backup management companies including Microsoft,
    Oracle, SAP and Symantec. A number of these strategic partners
    are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments
    of the storage market. There is intense competition for
    attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish
    strategic relationships with these partners, we cannot assure
    you that these partnerships will generate significant revenue or
    that the partnerships will continue to be in effect for any
    specific period of time.


 


    We intend to continue to establish and maintain business
    relationships with technology companies to accelerate the
    development and marketing of our storage solutions. To the
    extent we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships and
    maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenue and
    operating results could be impacted negatively. In addition, the
    loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse effect
    on the progress of our new products under development with that
    partner.



    
    25



Table of Contents





    We are
    expanding our indirect channel, we cannot assure you that we are
    able to maintain existing resellers, attract new resellers, and
    that channel conflicts will not materially adversely affect our
    channel relationships. In addition, we do not have exclusive
    relationships with our resellers and accordingly there is a risk
    that those resellers may give higher priority to products of
    other suppliers, which could materially adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    We market and sell our storage solutions directly through our
    worldwide sales force and indirectly through channels such as
    value-added resellers, or VARs, systems integrators,
    distributors, OEMs and strategic business partners and derive a
    significant portion of our revenue from these indirect channel
    partners. In fiscal 2006, Fujitsu Siemens and our two-tier
    distribution partners, Arrow and Avnet, accounted for 4.2% and
    10.6%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue.


 


    However, in order for us to maintain our current revenue sources
    and grow our revenue as we have forecasted, we must effectively
    manage our relationships with these indirect channel partners.
    To do so, we must attract and retain a sufficient number of
    qualified channel partners to successfully market our products.
    However, because we also sell our products directly to customers
    through our sales force, on occasion we compete with our
    indirect channels for sales of our products to our end
    customers, competition that could result in conflicts with these
    indirect channel partners and make it harder for us to attract
    and retain these indirect channel partners. At the same time,
    our indirect channel partners may offer products that are
    competitive to ours. In addition, because our reseller partners
    generally offer products from several different companies,
    including products of our competitors, these resellers may give
    higher priority to the marketing, sales, and support of our
    competitors’ products than ours. If we fail to manage
    effectively our relationships with these indirect channel
    partners to minimize channel conflict and continue to evaluate
    and meet our indirect sales partners’ needs with respect to
    our products, we will not be able to maintain or increase our
    revenue as we have forecasted, which would have a materially
    adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results
    of operations. Additionally, if we do not manage distribution of
    our products and services and support effectively, or if our
    resellers’ financial conditions or operations weaken, our
    revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected.


 



    Risks
    inherent in our international operations could have a material
    adverse effect on our operating results.


 


    We conduct business internationally. For the year ended
    April 30, 2006, 45.7% of our total revenues were from
    international customers (including U.S. exports).
    Accordingly, our future operating results could be materially
    and adversely affected by a variety of factors, some of which
    are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or
    economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade
    protection measures and other regulatory requirements,
    government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and
    international conflicts.


 


    Our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and
    in foreign currencies. An increase in the value of the
    U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our
    products more expensive and, therefore, potentially less
    competitive in foreign markets. For international sales and
    expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject
    to risks associated with currency fluctuations. We utilize
    forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign currency
    exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities as well
    as anticipated foreign currency cash flows. All balance sheet
    hedges are marked to market through earnings every quarter,
    while gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recorded in other
    comprehensive income. These hedges attempt to reduce, but do not
    always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange
    movements. Factors that could have an impact on the
    effectiveness of our hedging program include the accuracy of
    forecasts and the volatility of foreign currency markets. There
    can be no assurance that such hedging strategies will be
    successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not
    have a material adverse effect on our operating results.


 


    Additional risks inherent in our international business
    activities generally include, among others, longer accounts
    receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing
    international operations. Such factors could materially and
    adversely affect our future international sales and,
    consequently, our operating results.


 


    We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our
    non-U.S. customers.
    These benefits are contingent upon existing tax regulations in
    the U.S. and in the countries in which our international
    operations are located. Future changes in domestic or
    international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability
    to continue to realize these tax benefits. Our effective tax
    rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving
    interpretations of existing



    
    26



Table of Contents




    law or regulations. Potentially adverse tax consequences could
    negatively impact the operating and financial results from
    international operations. International operations currently
    benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the Netherlands.


 


    Although operating results have not been materially and
    adversely affected by seasonality in the past, because of the
    significant seasonal effects experienced within the industry,
    particularly in Europe, our future operating results could be
    materially and adversely affected by seasonality.


 


    We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or
    increase international market demand for our products.


 



    If we
    fail to manage our expanding business effectively, our operating
    results could be materially and adversely
    affected.


 


    We experienced growth in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. Our future
    operating results depend to a large extent on management’s
    ability to successfully manage expansion and growth, including
    but not limited to, expanding international operations,
    forecasting revenues, addressing new markets, controlling
    expenses, implementing and enhancing infrastructure, systems and
    processes, and managing our assets.


 


    The growth in our business requires that we invest in people,
    processes and systems to best optimize our revenue growth and
    long term profitability. However, growth in our sales or
    continued expansion in the scope of our operations could strain
    our current management, financial, manufacturing and other
    systems, and may require us to implement and improve those
    systems. If we experience any problems with any improvement or
    expansion of these systems, procedures or controls, or if these
    systems, procedures or controls are not designed, implemented or
    improved in a cost-effective and timely manner, our operations
    may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any
    failure to implement, improve and expand such systems,
    procedures, and controls in a timely and efficient manner could
    harm our growth strategy and materially and adversely affect our
    financial condition and ability to achieve our business
    objectives.


 


    In addition, an unexpected decline in the growth rate of
    revenues without a corresponding and timely reduction in expense
    growth or a failure to manage other aspects of growth could
    materially and adversely affect our operating results.


 



    A
    significant percentage of our expenses are fixed, which could
    materially and adversely affect our net income.


 


    Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to
    future sales, and a significant percentage of our expenses are
    fixed. As a result, if sales levels are below expectations or
    previously higher levels, net income will be disproportionately
    affected in a material and adverse manner.


 



    The
    market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly
    in the past and will likely continue to do so in the
    future.


 


    The market price for our common stock has experienced
    substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could
    cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These
    factors include but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in our operating results



 


     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by
    investors to be comparable to us



 


     
        • 

    
    Economic developments in the storage and data management market
    as a whole



 


     
        • 

    
    International conflicts and acts of terrorism



 


     
        • 

    
    A shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities
    analysts’ expectations



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections



 


     
        • 

    
    Announcements of new products, applications, or product
    enhancements by us or our competitors






    
    27



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers, and
    channel and strategic partners



 


     
        • 

    
    General market conditions





 


    In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that
    has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities
    of many technology companies. Additionally, certain
    macroeconomic factors such as changes in interest rates, the
    market climate for the technology sector, and levels of
    corporate spending on information technology could also have an
    impact on the trading price of our stock. As a result, the
    market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in
    the future, and any broad market decline, as well as our own
    operating results, may materially and adversely affect the
    market price of our common stock.


 



    We
    depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment
    and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. Our
    business could be materially and adversely affected as a result
    of a natural disaster, terrorist acts, or other catastrophic
    events.


 


    Any political, military, world health (e.g., SARS, Avian Flu) or
    other issue which hinders this movement or restricts the import
    or export of materials could lead to significant business
    disruptions. Furthermore, any strike, economic failure, or other
    material disruption cased by fire, floods, hurricanes, power
    loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins,
    and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to
    conduct business. If such disruptions result in cancellations of
    customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic
    activity or corporate spending on information technology, or
    directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and
    logistics functions, our results of operations and financial
    condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition,
    our headquarters are located in Northern California, an area
    susceptible to earthquakes. If any significant disaster were to
    occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired.


 



    We
    depend on attracting and retaining qualified technical and sales
    personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain such
    personnel, our operating results could be materially and
    adversely impacted.


 


    Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to
    identify, attract, motivate, and retain qualified technical and
    sales personnel. Because our future success is dependent on our
    ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we
    are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract,
    motivate, and retain qualified engineers with the requisite
    education, backgrounds, and industry experience. Competition for
    qualified engineers, particularly in Silicon Valley, can be
    intense. The loss of the services of a significant number of our
    engineers or salespeople could be disruptive to our development
    efforts or business relationships and could materially and
    adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Undetected
    software, hardware errors, or failures found in new products may
    result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products,
    which could increase our costs and reduce our
    revenues.


 


    Our products may contain undetected software, hardware errors,
    or failures when first introduced or as new versions are
    released. Despite testing by us and by current and potential
    customers, errors may not be found in new products until after
    commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or
    delay in market acceptance, which could materially and adversely
    affect our operating results.


 



    If we
    are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be
    subject to increased competition that could materially and
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    Our success depends significantly upon our proprietary
    technology. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark
    laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual
    provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. We
    seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written
    materials under trade secret, copyright, and patent laws, which
    afford only limited protection. Some U.S. trademarks and
    some
    U.S.-registered
    trademarks are registered internationally as well. We will
    continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks
    as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality
    agreements with our employees and with our resellers, strategic
    partners, and customers. We currently have multiple U.S. and
    international patent applications pending and multiple
    U.S. patents issued. The pending applications may not be
    approved, and if patents are issued, such patents may be
    challenged. If such challenges are brought, the patents may be
    invalidated. We cannot assure



    
    28



Table of Contents




    you that we will develop proprietary products or technologies
    that are patentable, that any issued patent will provide us with
    any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third
    parties, or that the patents of others will not materially and
    adversely affect our ability to do business.


 


    Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary
    technology. Any such litigation may be time-consuming and
    costly. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights,
    unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products
    or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
    In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect
    proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the
    United States. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting
    our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors
    will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our
    products, or design around patents issued to us or other
    intellectual property rights of ours.


 


    We are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. We
    may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing
    third parties’ intellectual property rights. Third parties
    may in the future claim infringement by us with respect to
    current or future products, patents, trademarks, or other
    proprietary rights. We expect that companies in the appliance
    market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as
    the number of products and competitors in our industry segment
    grows and the functionality of products in different industry
    segments overlaps. Any such claims could be time-consuming,
    result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays,
    require us to redesign our products, or require us to enter into
    royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially
    and adversely affect our operating results. Such royalty or
    licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms
    acceptable to us or at all.


 



    Our
    business is subject to increasingly complex corporate
    governance, public disclosure, accounting, and tax requirements
    and environmental legislation that have increased both our costs
    and the risk of noncompliance.


 


    Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to
    certain rules and regulations of federal, state, and financial
    market exchange entities charged with the protection of
    investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are
    publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and NASDAQ, have
    implemented new requirements and regulations and continue
    developing additional regulations and requirements in response
    to recent corporate scandals and laws enacted by Congress, most
    notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply
    with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to
    continue resulting in, increased general and administrative
    expenses and diversion of management time and attention from
    revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.


 


    We have recently completed our evaluation of our internal
    controls over financial reporting as required by
    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although our
    assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion
    that as of April 30, 2006, our internal controls over
    financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the
    outcome of our testing in future periods. If our internal
    controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and
    reputation could be harmed. We may incur additional expenses and
    commitment of management’s time in connection with further
    evaluations, either of which could materially increase our
    operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net income.


 


    The impact of option expensing under SFAS No. 123R
    will result in lower reported earnings per share, which could
    negatively impact our future stock price. This could also impact
    our ability to use or our future practice of utilizing,
    broad-based employee stock plans to attract, reward, and retain
    employees, which could also adversely impact our operations. In
    addition, the option pricing models used to estimate the fair
    value of employee stock options are based on highly subjective
    inputs and assumptions. If another party asserts that the fair
    value of our employee stock options is misstated, securities
    class action litigation could be brought against us, or the
    market price of our common stock could decline, or both could
    occur. As a result, we could incur significant losses, and our
    operating results may be below our expectations and those of
    investors and stock market analysts.


 


    We also face increasing complexity in our product design and
    procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming
    requirements relating to the materials composition of many of
    our products. The European Union (“EU”) has adopted
    two directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and
    electronic equipment sold in the EU. One of these is the
    Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in
    Electrical and Electronic Equipment



    
    29



Table of Contents




    (“RoHS”) directive. The RoHS directive restricts the
    use of lead, mercury, and certain other substances in electrical
    and electronic products placed on the market in the European
    Union after July 1, 2006.


 


    In connection with our compliance with such environmental laws
    and regulations, we could incur substantial costs (including
    excess component inventory) and be subject to disruptions to our
    operations and logistics. In addition, we will need to ensure
    that we can manufacture compliant products, and that we can be
    assured a supply of compliant components from suppliers. Similar
    laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other
    regions, including in the United States, China, and Japan. Other
    environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our
    products to utilize components that are more environmentally
    compatible, and such reengineering and component substitution
    may result in additional costs to us. Although we do not
    anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of
    our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no
    assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a
    material adverse effect on our business.


 



    The
    U.S. government has contributed to our revenue growth and
    become an important customer for us. However, government demand
    is unpredictable, and there is no guarantee of future revenue
    growth from the U.S. government.


 


    The U.S. government has become an important customer for
    the storage market and for us. Government agencies are subject
    to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could
    lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in IT spending
    on infrastructures. If the government or individual agencies
    within the government reduce or shift their capital spending
    pattern, our financial results may be harmed. We cannot assure
    you that revenue from the U.S. government will continue to
    grow in the future.


 



    Item 1B