ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS
      
       In evaluating NVIDIA and our
business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other
information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Before you buy our
common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks
including, but not limited to, the risks described below. Additionally, any one
of the following risks could seriously harm our business, financial condition
and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we
currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.
      
      Risks
Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners
      
      We
depend on foundries to manufacture our products and these third parties may not
be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our
business.
       
              We do
not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our products and do not own or
operate a wafer fabrication facility. Instead, we are dependent on
industry-leading foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Corporation, or TSMC, to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their
fabrication equipment and techniques. A substantial portion of our wafers are
supplied by TSMC. The foundries, which have limited capacity, also manufacture
products for other semiconductor companies, including some of our
competitors.  Since we do not have long-term commitment contracts with
any of these foundries, they do not have an obligation to provide us with any
minimum quantity of product at any time or at any set price, except as may be
provided in a specific purchase order.   Most of our products are
only manufactured by one foundry at a time.  In times of high demand,
the foundries could choose to prioritize their capacity for other companies,
reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, or increase the prices that they charge
us.  If we are unable to meet customer demand due to reduced or
eliminated deliveries or have to increase the prices of our products, we could
lose sales to customers, which would negatively impact our revenue and our
reputation.  For example, revenue during the fourth quarter of fiscal
year 2010 was somewhat limited by supply constraints related to 40nm products.
These supply constraints were driven by limited 40nm wafer foundry capacity as
well as challenges related to 40nm process manufacturing yields.  As a
result, we have been forced to allocate our available 40nm product supply among
our customers.  We expect such supply constraints could have a further
limiting impact on our revenue for the first quarter of fiscal year
2011.
       
      Because
the lead-time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new
manufacturing partner and achieve initial production could be over a year, we do
not have an alternative source of supply for our products. In addition, the time
and effort to qualify a new foundry would result in additional expense,
diversion of resources, and could result in lost sales, any of which would
negatively impact our financial results. We believe that long-term market
acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with the
third-party manufacturers we use to ensure adequate product supply and
competitive pricing to respond to customer demand.
      
       If our
Third-Party Foundries are not able to transition to new manufacturing process
technologies or develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality,
leading-edge process technologies our operating results and gross margin could
be adversely affected.
       
      We use
the most advanced manufacturing process technology appropriate for our products
that is available from our third-party foundries. As a result, we continuously
evaluate the benefits of migrating our products to smaller geometry process
technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. We believe this
strategy will help us remain competitive.  Our current product
families are manufactured using 0.15 micron, 0.14 micron, 0.13 micron, 0.11
micron, 90 nanometer, 65 nanometer, 55 nanometer and 40 nanometer process
technologies.   Manufacturing process technologies are subject to
rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development,
which could negatively impact our operating expenses and gross
margin.
       
       We
have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes in the
past and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product
deliveries and increased expense levels. We may face similar difficulties,
delays and expenses as we continue to transition our new products to smaller
geometry processes. Moreover, we are dependent on our third-party manufacturers
to invest sufficient funds in new manufacturing processes in order to have ample
capacity for all of their customers and to develop the processes in a timely
manner. Our product cycles may also depend on our third-party manufacturers
migrating to smaller geometry processes successfully and in time for us to meet
our customer demands.  Some of our competitors own their manufacturing
facilities and may be able to move to a new state of the art manufacturing
process more quickly or more successfully than our manufacturing
partners.   If our suppliers fall behind our competitors in
manufacturing processes, the development and customer demand for our products
and the use of our products could be negatively impacted.  If we are
forced to use larger geometric processes in manufacturing a product than our
competition, our gross margin may be reduced.  The inability by us or
our third-party manufacturers to effectively and efficiently transition to new
manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our operating results
and our gross margin.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          12
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      We cannot
be certain that our third-party foundries will be able to develop, obtain or
successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies needed to
manufacturer our products profitably or on a timely basis or that our
competitors (including those that own their own manufacturing facilities) will
not develop such high quality, leading-edge process technologies earlier. If our
third party-foundries experience manufacturing inefficiencies, we may fail to
achieve acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays. If our
third-party foundries fall behind our competitors (including those that own
their own manufacturing facilities), the development and customer demand for our
products and the use of our products could be negatively
impacted.  Additionally, we cannot be certain that our third-party
foundries will manufacturer our products at a price that is competitive to what
our competitors pay.  If our third-party foundries do not charge us a
competitive price, our operating results and gross margin will be negatively
impacted.
       
      Failure
to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively
impact our financial results and damage our reputation.
       
      Manufacturing
yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed
largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the
manufacturer. Low yields may result from either product design or process
technology failure.  We do not know a yield problem exists until our
design is manufactured.  When a yield issue is identified, the product
is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. As a result, yield problems may
not be identified until well into the production process. Resolution of yield
problems requires cooperation by, and communication between, us and the
manufacturer. Because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry
capacity, decreases in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our
costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers.
Lower than expected yields could potentially harm customer relationships, our
reputation and our financial results.
       
      Global
economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial
results.
      
      Our
operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic
conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a
continuing risk to our business as consumers and businesses have postponed
spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines
in income or asset values, which have reduced the demand for our products. Other
factors that could depress demand for our products in the future include
conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, expectations for
inflation, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence,
and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer and business spending
behavior. These and other economic factors have reduced demand for our products
and could further harm our business, financial condition and operating
results.
       
      The
financial turmoil that affected the banking system and financial markets and the
increased possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of
business resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of
liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income,
credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on
effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key
suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel
partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer,
including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions,
which may negatively impact our treasury operations. Other income and expense
could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses
realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges
related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest
rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. Volatility
in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk
that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments
could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to
them.
      
      Our
business is cyclical in nature and has experienced severe downturns that have,
and may in the future, materially adversely affect our business and financial
results.
       
      Our
business is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical
semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has been adversely affected
by many factors, including the recent global downturn, ongoing efforts by our
customers to reduce their spending, diminished product demand, increased
inventory levels, lower average selling prices, uncertainty regarding long-term
growth rates and underlying financial health and increased competition. These
factors, could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase
our sales or recognize revenue and in turn adversely affect our business,
operating results and financial condition.  If our actions to reduce
our operating expenses to sufficiently offset these factors during this downturn
are unsuccessful, our operating results will suffer.
       
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          13
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      Our
failure to estimate customer demand properly could adversely affect our
financial results.
       
       We
manufacture our products based on forecasts of customer demand in order to have
shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our
customers.  As a result, we may build inventories for anticipated
periods of growth which do not occur or may build inventory anticipating demand
for a product that does not materialize. In forecasting demand, we make multiple
assumptions any of which may prove to be incorrect. Situations that may result
in excess or obsolete inventory include:
       
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                changes
      in business and economic conditions, including downturns in the
      semiconductor industry and/or overall
economy;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                changes
      in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including
      changes in the credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy
      prices;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                if
      there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our
      products;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                if
      there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly
      changing technology and customer
requirements;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                if
      we fail to estimate customer demand properly for our older products as our
      newer products are introduced; or
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                if
      our competition were to take unexpected competitive pricing
      actions.
              
            
      
      
      Any
inability to sell products to which we have devoted resources could harm our
business. In addition, cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders
could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our
gross margin and restrict our ability to fund operations. Additionally, because
we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each
quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a
timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. We could be
subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding
inventory write-downs and/or a reduction in average selling prices if growth
slows or does not materialize, or if we incorrectly forecast product demand,
which could negatively impact our financial results.
       
      Conversely,
if we underestimate our customers’ demand for our products, our third party
manufacturing partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase
production for us meaning that we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory
to fill our customers’ orders on a timely basis. Even if we are able to increase
production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost
effective or timely manner. Inability to fulfill our customers’ orders on a
timely basis, or at all, could damage our customer relationships, result in lost
revenue, cause a loss in market share, impact our customer relationships or
damage our reputation, any of which could adversely impact our
business.
      
      Because
our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, our failure to
forecast changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross
margin.
       
      We are
focused on improving our gross margin. Our gross margin for any period depends
on a number of factors, including:
       
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      mix of our products sold;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                average
      selling prices;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                introduction
      of new products;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                product
      transitions;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                sales
      discounts;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                unexpected
      pricing actions by our competitors;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      cost of product components; and
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our
      products.
              
            
      
        
      If we do
not correctly forecast the impact of any of the relevant factors on our
business, there may not be any actions we can take or we may not be able to take
any possible actions in time to counteract any negative impact on our gross
margin.   In addition, if we are unable to meet our gross margin
target for any period or the target set by analysts, the trading price of our
common stock may decline. 
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          14
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      Our
revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which
makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short
of expectations.
       
      Demand
for many of our revenue components fluctuates and is difficult to predict, and
our operating expenses are relatively fixed and largely independent of revenue.
Therefore, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or
losses in any particular period.  Our operating expenses, which are
comprised of research and development expenses, sales, general and
administrative expenses and restructuring charges represented 38%, 36% and
25% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 Since we often recognize a substantial portion of our revenue in the last
month of each quarter, we may not be able to adjust our operating expenses in a
timely manner in response to any unanticipated revenue shortfalls in any
quarter. Further, some of our operating expenses, like stock-based
compensation expense can only be adjusted over a longer period of time and
cannot be reduced during a quarter.  If we are unable to reduce operating
expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls, our financial results
will be negatively impacted.
       
      Any one
or more of the risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other
factors could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net
income. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results
of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.
Similarly, the results of any quarterly or full fiscal year period are not
necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a subsequent quarter or a
full fiscal year. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our
operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or
investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.
We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to
be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit
and results of operations.
      
       If
we are unable to sell our MCP products for use with certain Intel processors, we
may not be able to successfully compete and our business would be negatively
impacted.
      
      Our MCP
products are currently used with both Intel and AMD
processors.   Our revenue from MCP products represented 26% of
our total revenue for fiscal year 2010.  In February 2009, Intel filed
suit against us related to a patent license agreement that we signed with Intel
in 2004. Intel seeks an order from the court declaring that the license does not
extend to a new Intel processor architecture and enjoining us from stating that
we have licensing rights for this architecture.  If Intel successfully
obtains such a court order, we could be unable to sell our MCP products for use
with these Intel processors and our competitive position and financial results
would be adversely impacted.  In addition, in order to continue to
sell MCP products for use with these Intel processors we could be required to
negotiate a new license agreement with Intel and we may not be able to do so on
reasonable terms, if at all.  
      
       In
March 2009, we asserted counterclaims against Intel pursuant to which we seek an
order declaring that we have the right to sell certain chipset products with
Intel’s processors under the chipset license agreement, and enjoining Intel from
interfering with our licensing rights.  We are also seeking a finding
that Intel has materially breached its obligations under the chipset license
agreement, and are requesting various remedies for that breach, including
termination of Intel’s cross licensing rights.  Notwithstanding our
belief that the chipset license agreement extends to a component of the new
Intel processor architecture referred to as Direct Media Interface, or DMI, we
currently have no intentions of building a DMI-based chipset while this dispute
remains unresolved.
       
      If
we are unable to compete in the markets for our products, our financial results
could be adversely impacted.
       
      The
market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, new
product introductions, evolving industry standards and declining average selling
prices.  We believe that the principal competitive factors in this
market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and
distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry standard
Application Programming Interface, or APIs, manufacturing capabilities, price of
processors, and total system costs. We believe that our ability to remain
competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and
functions that customers will demand and whether we are able to deliver
consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality and at
competitive prices. We expect competition to increase from both existing
competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than
ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by
our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances
among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share.  We
believe other factors impacting our ability to compete are: 
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                product
      performance;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                product
      bundling by competitors with multiple product
  lines;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                breadth
      and frequency of product offerings;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                access
      to customers and distribution
channels;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                backward-forward
      software support;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                conformity
      to industry standard application programming interfaces;
    and
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                manufacturing
      capabilities.
              
            
      
      
          A significant
source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide GPUs
and mobile and consumer products.  Some of our competitors may have
greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we
do and may be more able to adapt to customer or technological
changes.
        
      
        
          
          
        
        
          15
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
                 
           Our
current competitors include the following:
       
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                suppliers
      of GPUs, including MCPs that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part
      of their existing solutions, such as AMD, Intel, Matrox Electronics
      Systems Ltd., SIS, and VIA;
and
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                suppliers
      of system-on-a-chip products that support netbooks, PNDs, PMPs, PDAs,
      cellular phones, handheld devices or embedded devices such as AMD,
      Broadcom, Freescale Semiconductor Inc., Fujitsu Limited, Imagination
      Technologies Ltd., ARM Holdings plc, Marvell Technology Group Ltd, or
      Marvell, NEC Corporation, Qualcomm Incorporated, Renesas Technology,
      Samsung, Seiko-Epson, ST Microelectronics, Texas Instruments Incorporated,
      and Toshiba America, Inc.;
              
            
      
       
       If
and to the extent we offer products in new markets, we may face competition from
some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we
currently do not compete. For example, in the case of our CPB, our Tegra
products primarily compete in tablets, smartbooks, smartphones and other
handheld consumer devices.  We cannot accurately predict if we will
compete successfully in any of the new markets we may enter. If we are unable to
compete in our current or new markets, demand for our products could decrease
which could cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to
suffer.
       
      We
are dependent on the personal computer market and its rate of growth in the
future may have a negative impact on our business.
       
      We derive
and expect to continue to derive the majority of our revenue from the sale
or license of products for use in the desktop personal computer, or PC, and
notebook PC markets, including professional workstations. A reduction in sales
of PCs, or a reduction in the growth rate of PC sales, may reduce demand for our
products. These changes in demand could be large and sudden. During fiscal year
2010, sales of our desktop GPU products increased by approximately 1% compared
to fiscal year 2009.  The increase in the sale of desktop GPU products
was primarily driven by unit volume growth in the high-end and mainstream
segments as market demand appeared to begin to recover from recessionary
conditions that began in the prior year. However, sales of our notebook GPU
products decreased by approximately 31% compared to fiscal year 2009. This
decline was driven primarily by a combination of the decline in unit demand and
in average selling prices, or ASPs, due to increased competition in the
marketplace.  Since PC manufacturers often build inventories during periods
of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows
or if they incorrectly forecast product transitions. In these cases, PC
manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional
inventory from suppliers like us until their excess inventory has been absorbed,
which would have a negative impact on our financial results.
      
       As
Intel and AMD continue to pursue platform solutions, we may not be able to
successfully compete and our business would be negatively impacted.
       
       We
expect substantial competition from both Intel’s and AMD’s strategy of selling
platform solutions, such as the success Intel achieved with its Centrino
platform solution.  AMD has also announced a platform
solution.  Additionally, Intel and AMD have each announced its
intention to integrate a central processing unit, or CPU, and a GPU on the same
chip or same package, as evidenced by AMD’s announcement of its Fusion processor
project and Intel’s announcement of its multichip packaged solution codenamed
Arrandale.  If AMD and Intel continue to pursue platform solutions, we
may not be able to successfully compete and our business would be negatively
impacted.
        
      Our
business results could be adversely affected if the identification and
development of new products or entry into or development of a new market is
delayed or unsuccessful.
       
      In order
to maintain or improve our financial results, we will need to continue to
identify and develop new products as well as identify and enter new
markets.  As our GPUs and other processors develop and competition
increases, we anticipate that product life cycles at the high end will remain
short and average selling prices will decline. In particular, average selling
prices and gross margins for our GPUs and other processors could decline as each
product matures and as unit volume increases. As a result, we will need to
introduce new products and enhancements to existing products to maintain or
improve overall average selling prices, our gross margin and our financial
results. We believe the success of our new product introductions will
depend on many factors outlined elsewhere in these risk factors as well as the
following:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                market
      demand for new products and enhancements to existing
    products;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                timely
      completion and introduction of new product designs and new opportunities
      for existing products;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                seamless
      transitions from an older product to a new
  product;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                differentiation
      of our new products from those of our
  competitors;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                delays
      in volume shipments of our
products;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                market
      acceptance of our products instead of our customers' products;
      and
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                availability
      of adequate quantity and configurations of various types of memory
      products.
              
            
      
      
        In
the past, we have experienced delays in the development and adoption of new
products and have been unable to successfully manage product transitions from
older to newer products resulting in obsolete inventory.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          16
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      To be
successful, we must also enter new markets or develop new uses for our future or
existing products. We cannot accurately predict if our current or existing
products or technologies will be successful in the new opportunities or markets
that we identify for them or that we will compete successfully in any new
markets we may enter. For example, we have developed products and other
technology in order for certain general-purpose computing operations to be
performed on a GPU rather than a CPU.  This general purpose computing,
which is often referred to as GP computing, was a new use for the GPU which had
been entirely used for graphics rendering.  During fiscal year 2008,
we introduced our NVIDIA Tesla family of products, which was our entry into the
high-performance computing industry, a new market for us.  During
fiscal year 2010, we introduced our next generation CUDA GPU architecture,
codenamed “Fermi,” which we expect to be the foundation for computational GPUs
and  enable breakthroughs in both graphics and parallel
computing.  Some of our competitors, including Intel, are now developing
their own solutions for the discrete graphics and computing markets. Our failure
to successfully develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance for new GPUs,
other products or other technologies or to enter into new markets or identify
new uses for existing or future products, could result in rapidly declining
average selling prices, reduced demand for our products or loss of market share
any of which could cause our revenue, gross margin and overall financial results
to suffer.
       
       If
we are unable to achieve design wins, our products may not be adopted by our
target markets or customers either of which could negatively impact our
financial results.
       
      The
success of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to
develop new competitive products for our target markets and customers. We
believe achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future
products chosen for hardware components or subassemblies designed by OEMs, ODMs,
add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, is an integral part of our future
success. Our OEM, ODM, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers’ customers
typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year,
typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade
shows. Accordingly, when our customers are making their design decisions, our
existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely
introduce new products in order to be included in our customers’ new system
configurations. This requires that we:
       
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                anticipate
      the features and functionality that customers and consumers will
      demand;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                incorporate
      those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting
      design requirements
  of  our  customers;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                price
      our products competitively; and
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                introduce
      products to the market within our customers’ limited design
      cycles.
              
            
      
       
      If OEMs,
ODMs, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products
in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems
until at least the next design configuration. Therefore, we endeavor to develop
close relationships with our OEMs and ODMs, in an attempt to better anticipate
and address customer needs in new products so that we will achieve design
wins.
      
      Our
ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify
and be compliant with evolving industry standards. Unanticipated changes in
industry standards could render our products incompatible with products
developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers like AMD,
Intel and Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft.  If our products
are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, we may not be designed
into our customers’ product designs.  However, to be compliant with
changes to industry standards, we may have to invest significant time and
resources to redesign our products which could negatively impact our gross
margin or operating results. If we are unable to achieve new design wins for
existing or new customers, we may lose market share and our operating results
would be negatively impacted.
      
      If
our products do not continue to be adopted by our target markets or if the
demand for new and innovative products in our target markets decreases, our
business and operating results would suffer.
       
       Our
success depends in part upon continued broad adoption of our processors for 3D
graphics and multimedia in desktop PC, notebook PC, workstation,
high-performance computing, netbooks, smartbooks, tablets, smartphones, and
video game console applications. The market for processors has been
characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of
products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark
results, changes in pricing of dynamic random-access memory devices and other
changes in the total system cost of add-in boards, as well as by severe price
competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. Broad
market acceptance is difficult to achieve and such market acceptance, if
achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition and frequent new
technology and product introductions. Our GPU and MCP businesses together
comprised approximately 79%, 75% and 79% of our revenue for fiscal years 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively.  As such, our financial results would
suffer if for any reason our current or future GPUs or MCPs do not continue to
achieve widespread adoption by the PC market. If we are unable to complete the
timely development of new products or if we were unable to successfully and
cost-effectively manufacture and deliver products that meet the requirements of
the desktop PC, notebook PC, workstation, high-performance computing, netbook,
smartbooks, tablets, smartphones, and video game console markets, we may
experience a decrease in revenue which could negatively impact our operating
results.
       
       Additionally,
there can be no assurance that the industry will continue to demand new products
with improved standards, features or performance. If our customers, OEMs, ODMs,
add-in-card and motherboard manufacturers, system builders and consumer
electronics companies, do not continue to design products that require more
advanced or efficient processors and/or the market does not continue to demand
new products with increased performance, features, functionality or standards,
sales of our products could decline and the markets for our products could
shrink. Decreased sales of our products for these markets could negatively
impact our revenue and our financial results.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          17
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      If
our products contain significant defects our financial results could be
negatively impacted, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market
share.
      
      Our
products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any
number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within
a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect,
compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research
and development efforts to find and correct the issue.  Such efforts
could divert our engineers’ attention from the development of new products and
technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin.
In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software
drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to
achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to
reimburse customers, including our customers’ costs to repair or replace
products in the field. A product recall or a significant number of product
returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, could result in the shifting
of business to our competitors and could result in litigation against us. Costs
associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be
significant and could materially harm our financial results.   For
example, during fiscal year 2010, we recorded an additional net warranty charge
of $95.8 million against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty,
repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging
material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products
used in notebook systems. This charge included an additional accrual of $164.4
million for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance
carriers of $68.6 million that we recorded against cost of revenue during fiscal
year 2010. During fiscal year 2009, we recorded a net warranty charge of $189.3
million charge against cost of revenue for the purpose of supporting the product
repair costs of our affected customers around the world.  This charge
included an accrual of $196.0 million for related estimated costs, offset by
reimbursements from insurance carriers of $6.7 million that we recorded against
cost of revenue during fiscal year 2009. In September, October and November
2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting
various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products.  Please
refer to the risk entitled “We
are subject to litigation arising from alleged defects in our previous
generation MCP and GPU products, which if determined adversely to us, could harm
our business” for the risk associated with this litigation.
      
      We
may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated,
which could increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating
results.
      
      If new
competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new
markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater
resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our
operating expenses would increase.  Our engineering and technical
resources include 3,940 full-time employees as of January 31, 2010 and 3,772
employees as of January 25, 2009, respectively.  Research and
development expenditures were $908.9 million, $855.9 million and $691.6 million,
for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  Research and
development expenses included stock-based compensation expense of $151.8
million, $98.0 million and $76.6 million for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  If we are required to invest significantly greater
resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a
corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Research
and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent
we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these
investments may be independent of our level of revenue which could negatively
impact our financial results. In order to remain competitive, we anticipate that
we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development,
and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable
future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under
development.
       
       We
are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our
products, which reduces our control over the delivery schedule, product quantity
or product quality.
       
      Our
products are assembled, tested and packaged by independent subcontractors, such
as Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., Amkor Technology, JSI Logistics,
Ltd., King Yuan Electronics Co., Siliconware Precision Industries Co. Ltd., and
ChipPAC. As a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules,
product quantity, or product quality.  All of these subcontractors
assemble, test and package products for other companies, including some of our
competitors.  Since we do not have long-term agreements with our
subcontractors, when demand for subcontractors to assemble, test or package
products is high, our subcontractors may decide to prioritize the orders of
other customers over our orders.  Since the time required to qualify a
different subcontractor to assemble, test or package our products can be
lengthy, if we have to find a replacement subcontractor we could experience
significant delays in shipments of our products, product shortages, a decrease
in the quality of our products, or an increase in product cost. Any product
shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture,
assembly or testing of our products, which could cause our gross margin and
revenue to decline. 
        
       We
rely on third-party vendors to supply software development tools to us for the
development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools
necessary to develop or enhance new or existing products.
       
       We
rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design,
simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. To bring
new products or product enhancements to market in a timely manner, or at all, we
need software development tools that are sophisticated enough or technologically
advanced enough to complete our design, simulations and
verifications.  In the past, we have experienced delays in the
introduction of products as a result of the inability of then available software
development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of
our products. In the future, the design requirements necessary to meet consumer
demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed
the capabilities of available software development
tools.  Unavailability of software development tools may result in our
missing design cycles or losing design wins, either of which could result in a
loss of market share or negatively impact our operating results.
       
      Because
of the importance of software development tools to the development and
enhancement of our products, a critical component of our product development
efforts is our partnerships with leaders in the computer-aided design industry,
including Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Synopsys, Inc. We have invested
significant resources to develop relationships with these industry leaders and
have often assisted them in the definition of their new products. We believe
that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools
to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront
of the 3D graphics, communications and networking segments and develop products
that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. If these relationships
are not successful, we may be unable to develop new products or product
enhancements in a timely manner, which could result in a loss of market share, a
decrease in revenue or negatively impact our operating results.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          18
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      We
sell our products to a small number of customers and our business could suffer
if we lose any of these customers.
       
       We
have a limited number of customers and our sales are highly
concentrated.   We recorded approximately 12% of total revenue
from one customer, approximately 11% of total revenue from one customer and
approximately 10% of our total revenue from another customer for fiscal year
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  Although a small number of our
other customers represent the majority of our revenue, their end customers
include a large number of OEMs, and system integrators throughout the world who,
in many cases, specify the graphics supplier. Our sales process involves
achieving key design wins with leading PC, OEMs and major system builders and
supporting the product design into high volume production with key contract
equipment manufacturers, or CEMs, ODMs, add-in board and motherboard
manufacturers. These design wins in turn influence the retail and system builder
channel that is serviced by CEMs, ODMs, add-in board and motherboard
manufacturers. Our distribution strategy is to work with a small number of
leading independent CEMs, ODMs, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, and
distributors, each of which has relationships with a broad range of system
builders and leading PC OEMs. If we were to lose sales to our PC OEMs, CEMs,
ODMs, add-in board manufacturers and motherboard manufacturers and were unable
to replace the lost sales with sales to different customers, if they were to
significantly reduce the number of products they order from us, or if we were
unable to collect accounts receivable from them, our revenue may not reach or
exceed the expected level in any period, which could harm our financial
condition and our results of operations.
       
             
Any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, including from foreign
customers, could harm our operating results and financial
condition.
       
             Our
accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse
changes in our customers’ businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the
worldwide economy.  We recorded approximately 20% of our accounts
receivable balance from two customers at January 31, 2010 and approximately 38%
of our accounts receivable balance from three customers at January 25,
2009.
       
             Difficulties
in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations. These difficulties are heightened
during periods when economic conditions worsen. We continue to work directly
with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts
receivable from them. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for
estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required
payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers
and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of
our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability
to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to
defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required
to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our
operating results. In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or
write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could
negatively impact our financial results.
      
             We
obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to certain
customers. As a result of the tightening of the credit markets, we may not be
able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or
in amounts that we deem sufficient. While we have procedures to monitor and
limit exposure to credit risk on our accounts receivable, there can be no
assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk or avoid
losses, which could harm our financial condition or operating
results.
      
      We
are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our
business.
       
      We
conduct our business worldwide.  Our semiconductor wafers are
manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third-parties located outside of
the United States and other Americas.  We generated 84%, 87% and 89%
of our revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, from sales to
customers outside the United States and other Americas.  As of January
31, 2010, we had offices in fifteen countries outside of the United
States.  The manufacture, assembly, test and packaging of our products
outside of the United States, operation of offices outside of the United States,
and sales to customers internationally subjects us to a number of risks,
including:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                international
      economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between
      countries in which we do business;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                unexpected
      changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements;
       
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                complying
      with a variety of foreign laws;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                differing
      legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and
      employment practices;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                cultural
      differences in the conduct of
business; 
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                inadequate
      local infrastructure that could result in business
      disruptions; 
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                exporting
      or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs,
      quotas and other trade barriers and
  restrictions; 
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                financial
      risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts
      receivable and fluctuations in currency exchange
  rates;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                imposition
      of additional taxes and
penalties; and
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                other
      factors beyond our control such as terrorism, civil unrest, war and
      diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and the Avian flu.
       
              
            
      
       
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          19
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      If sales
to any of our customers outside of the United States and other Americas are
delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be
negatively impacted.
       
      Our
international operations in Australia, China, Finland, France, Germany, Hong
Kong, India, Japan, Korea, Russia, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, and
the United Kingdom are subject to many of the above listed risks. Difficulties
with our international operations, including finding appropriate staffing and
office space, may divert management’s attention and other resources any of which
could negatively impact our operating results.
       
      The
economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in Asia, may
negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international
sales to date have been denominated in United States dollars. Accordingly,
an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign
currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or
require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign
currencies. We anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a
greater degree as we further expand our international business
activities.
       
      Conditions
outside the control of our independent subcontractors and manufacturers may
impact their business operations and thereby adversely interrupt our
manufacturing and sales processes.
      
      The
economic, market, social, and political situations in countries where certain
independent subcontractors and manufacturers are located are unpredictable, can
be volatile, and can have a significant impact on our business because we may be
unable to obtain or distribute product in a timely manner. Market and political
conditions, including currency fluctuation, terrorism, political strife, war,
labor disruption, and other factors, including natural or man-made disasters,
adverse changes in tax laws, tariff, import or export quotas, power and water
shortages, or interruption in air transportation, in areas where our independent
subcontractors and manufacturers are located could also have a severe negative
impact on our operating capabilities. For example, because we rely heavily on
TSMC to produce a significant portion of our silicon wafers, earthquakes,
typhoons or other natural disasters in Taiwan and Asia could limit our wafer
supply and thereby harm our business, financial condition, and operational
results.
      
      We
are dependent on key employees and the loss of any of these employees could
negatively impact our business.
       
      Our
future success and ability to compete is substantially dependent on our ability
to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified key
personnel.  The market for key employees in the technology industry
can be competitive.  None of our key employees is bound by an
employment agreement, meaning our relationships with all of our key employees
are at will.  The loss of the services of any of our other key employees
without an adequate replacement or our inability to hire new employees as needed
could delay our product development efforts, harm our ability to sell our
products or otherwise negatively impact our business.
       
       In
addition, we rely on stock-based awards as one means for recruiting, motivating
and retaining highly skilled talent.  If the value of such stock
awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our
common stock or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as
a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could
be weakened, which could harm our results of
operations.  
       
      We
may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of
business acquisitions or strategic investments, which could hurt our ability to
grow our business, develop new products or sell our products.
       
      We have
acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and
technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products
and business. We may enter into future acquisitions of, or investments in,
businesses, in order to complement or expand our current businesses or enter
into a new business market. Negotiations associated with an acquisition or
strategic investment could divert management’s attention and other company
resources. Any of the following risks associated with past or future
acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business,
develop new products, our ability to sell our products, and ultimately could
have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the
      acquired business with our
business;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in operating in a new or multiple new
locations;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                disruption
      of our ongoing businesses or the ongoing business of the company we invest
      in or acquire;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the
      transaction;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and
      policies;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                disruption
      of or delays in ongoing research and development
  efforts;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                diversion
      of capital and other resources;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                assumption
      of liabilities;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                diversion
      of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation
      arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or
      investments;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulties
      in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and
      where competitors in such markets have stronger positions;
    and
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                impairment
      of relationships with employees and customers, or the loss of any of our
      key employees or customers our target’s key employees or customers, as a
      result of our acquisition or
investment.
              
            
      
        
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          20
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      In
addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash,
shares of our common stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities or a
combination of cash, convertible debt and common stock. If we make an investment
in cash or use cash to pay for all or a portion of an acquisition, our cash
reserves would be reduced which could negatively impact the growth of our
business or our ability to develop new products. However, if we pay the
consideration with shares of common stock, or convertible debentures, the
holdings of our existing stockholders would be diluted. The significant decline
in the trading price of our common stock would make the dilution to our
stockholders more extreme and could negatively impact our ability to pay the
consideration with shares of common stock or convertible debentures. We cannot
forecast the number, timing or size of future strategic investments or
acquisitions, or the effect that any such investments or acquisitions might have
on our operations or financial results.
      
       
We are exposed to credit risk, fluctuations in the market values of our
portfolio investments and in interest rates.
       
       All
of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as
“available-for-sale” securities. Investments in both fixed rate instruments and
floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk.
Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a
rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income
than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future
investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest
rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity
investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. We may suffer losses in
principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market
value due to changes in interest rates. Future declines in the market values of
our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and operating
results.  
       
      At
January 31, 2010 and January 25, 2009, we had $1.73 billion and $1.26 billion,
respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities.  Given the global nature of our business, we have invested
both domestically and internationally.  All of our investments are
denominated in United States dollars. We invest in a variety of financial
instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed
securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by
Government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt
securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government
and its agencies. As of January 31, 2010, we did not have any investments in
auction-rate preferred securities.  As of January 31, 2010, our
investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises
represented approximately 62% of our total cash equivalents and marketable
securities, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 22% of our
total cash equivalents and marketable securities.
      
      The financial turmoil that affected the
banking system and financial markets and the increased possibility that
financial institutions might consolidate or go out of business resulted in a
tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial
markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity
markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on
our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays;
inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance
purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel partner,
insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact
our treasury operations. Other income and expense could also vary materially
from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange
of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well
as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and
marketable securities balances. Volatility in the financial markets and economic
uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on
our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values
currently assigned to them. As of January 31, 2010, our investments in
government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented
approximately 62% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector
accounted for approximately 22% of our total investment portfolio.  Of
the financial sector investments, over half are guaranteed by the U.S.
government.  Substantially all of our investments are with A/A2 or
better rated securities.  If the fair value of our investments in
these sectors was to decline by 2%-5%, fair market values for these investments
would decrease by approximately $27-$67 million. 
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          21
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
       Risks
Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Common Stock and Other Matters
       
      We
are subject to litigation arising from alleged defects in our previous
generation MCP and GPU products, which if determined adversely to us, could harm
our business.
       
      During
fiscal year 2010, we recorded an additional net warranty charge of $95.8 million
against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return,
replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in
certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in
notebook systems. This charge included an additional accrual of $164.4 million
for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance carriers of
$68.6 million that we recorded against cost of revenue during fiscal year
2010.    During fiscal year 2009, we recorded a net warranty
charge of $189.3 million against cost of revenue for the purpose of supporting
the product repair costs of our affected customers around the world. This charge
included an accrual of $196.0 million for related estimated costs, offset by
reimbursements from insurance carriers of $6.7 million that we recorded against
cost of revenue during fiscal year 2009. Although the number of units that we
estimate will be impacted by this issue remains consistent with our initial
estimates in July 2008, the overall cost of remediation and repair of impacted
systems has been higher than originally anticipated.  The weak
die/packaging material combination is not used in any of our products that are
currently in production.
       
      The
previous generation MCP and GPU products that are impacted were included in a
number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant
quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these MCP and GPU products are
failing in the field at higher than normal rates.  While we have not
been able to determine with certainty a root cause for these failures, testing
suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal
management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing
factors.  We have worked with our customers to develop and have made
available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin
operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on
these chips. We have also recommended to our customers that they consider
changing the thermal management of the products in their notebook system
designs. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and
replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to
mitigate the consequences of these failures.
       
      We
continue to seek access to our insurance coverage regarding reimbursement
to us for some or all of the costs we have incurred and may incur in the future
relating to the weak material set.  We received $70.5 million and $8.0
million in reimbursements from insurance providers during fiscal years 2010 and
2009, respectively.   However, there can be no assurance that we
will recover any additional reimbursement. We continue to not see any abnormal
failure rates in any systems using NVIDIA products other than certain notebook
configurations. However, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate
other products. There can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in
other products.
       
      In September,
October and November 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were
filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU
products.  Such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management’s
time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business.
In addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from this
litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could
adversely affect our cash flow and financial results.
        
      We
are a party to other litigation, including patent litigation, which, if
determined adversely to us, could adversely affect our cash flow and financial
results.
       
      We are a
party to other litigation as both a defendant and as a plaintiff.  For
example, we are engaged in litigation with Intel Corporation, Rambus Corporation
and with various parties related to our acquisition of 3dfx in 2001. Please
refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further detail on these lawsuits. There can be no assurance that any litigation
to which we are a party will be resolved in our favor. Any claim that is
successfully decided against us may cause us to pay substantial damages,
including punitive damages, and other related fees. Regardless of whether
lawsuits are resolved in our favor or if we are the plaintiff or the defendant
in the litigation, any lawsuits to which we are a party will likely be expensive
and time consuming to defend or resolve. Such lawsuits could also harm our
relationships with existing customers and result in the diversion of
management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could harm
our business. Costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a
ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our
cash flow and financial results.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          22
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      Changes
in U.S. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially impact
our business.
      
      Currently,
a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the United
States, and a significant portion of our assets, including employees, are
located outside the United States.  United States income taxes and
foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for
certain non-United States subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be
indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. In May 2009,
President Obama’s administration provided details of previously announced
international tax proposals that if enacted into law would have substantially
reduced our ability to defer U.S. taxes on such indefinitely reinvested non-US
earnings including repealing the deferral of U.S. taxation of foreign earnings,
eliminating utilization of or substantially reducing our ability to claim
foreign tax credits, and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign
earnings are repatriated to the United States.  In October 2009, the
Obama administration announced it no longer intended to pursue such proposals
outside of a broader initiative to overhaul the corporate tax system, expected
in 2010.  However, in February 2010, the Obama administration released
its fiscal year 2011 budget with proposed modifications to international tax
laws that would again substantially reduce our ability to defer U.S. taxes on
indefinitely reinvested non-U.S. earnings, eliminate or substantially reduce our
ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminate certain tax deductions until
foreign earnings are repatriated to the United States. If any of these or
similar proposals are constituted into legislation in the current or future
year(s), they could have a negative impact on our financial position and results
of operations.
         
      Litigation
to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to
enforce our intellectual property rights and the outcome of such litigation
could result in substantial costs to us.
       
       We
expect that as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases and
as competition intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement
claims and lawsuits may increase. We may in the future become involved in
lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other
intellectual property rights violations by us or by our customers that we have
agreed to indemnify them for certain claims of infringement.
       
       An
unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could
include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents,
indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been
sought, injunctive relief.
       
      In
addition, in the future, we may need to commence litigation or other legal
proceedings in order to: 
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                assert
      claims of infringement of our intellectual
  property;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                enforce
      our patents;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                protect
      our trade secrets or know-how; or
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                determine
      the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of
      others.
              
            
      
        
      If we
have to initiate litigation in order to protect our intellectual property, our
operating expenses may increase which could negatively impact our operating
results. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm
our business.
       
      If
infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to
infringe a third parties’ patent or intellectual property, we or one of our
indemnified customers may have to seek a license to the third parties’ patent or
other intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain
licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors.
If we or one of our indemnified customers is unable to obtain a license from a
third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products,
we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue
the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products.  We may also
have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. If
these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our
business could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a
customer may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our
operating results.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          23
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      Our
ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our
intellectual property.
       
       We
rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee
and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect
our intellectual property in the United States and internationally. We have
numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the United States and in foreign
jurisdictions. Our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to
our products and the technology used in connection with our products. We also
rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our
intellectual property. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our
products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in
Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same
extent as the laws of the United States. This makes the possibility of piracy of
our technology and products more likely. We continuously assess whether and
where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies
based on such factors as: 
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      commercial significance of our operations and our competitors’ operations
      in particular countries and
regions;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      location in which our products are
manufactured;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                our
      strategic technology or product directions in different countries;
      and
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully
      enforced in different
jurisdictions.
              
            
      
      
      Our
pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. In
addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or
may be challenged by third parties. The enforcement of patents by others may
harm our ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop
substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our
trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our
intellectual property could harm our business.
        
      Government
investigations and inquiries from regulatory agencies could lead to enforcement
actions, fines or other penalties and could result in litigation against
us.
       
      In the
past, we have been subject to government investigations and inquiries from
regulatory agencies such as the Department of Justice and the SEC.  We
may be subject to government investigations and receive additional inquiries
from regulatory agencies in the future, which may lead to enforcement actions,
fines or other penalties.
       
      In
addition, litigation has often been brought against a company in connection with
the announcement of a government investigation or inquiry from a regulatory
agency.  Such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management’s
time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business.
In addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a
ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our
cash flow and financial results.
       
      We
are subject to the risks of owning real property.
       
      During
fiscal year 2009, we purchased real property in Santa Clara, California that
includes approximately 25 acres of land and ten commercial
buildings.  We also own real property in China and
India.  We have limited experience in the ownership and management of
real property and are subject to the risks of owning real property,
including:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with
      mitigating any environmental
problems;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                adverse
      changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes,
      changes in the market in which the property is located, or other
      factors;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      risk of loss if we decide to sell and are not able to recover all
      capitalized costs;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                increased
      cash commitments for the possible construction of a
  campus;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning,
      seismic and other legal or regulatory
  requirements;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                increased
      operating expenses for the buildings or the property or
    both;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                possible
      disputes with third parties, such as neighboring owners or others, related
      to the buildings or the  property or both;
  and
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or
      uninsured risks, such as the loss caused   by damage to the
      buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and or other natural
      disasters.
              
            
      
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          24
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      Expensing
employee equity compensation adversely affects our operating results and could
also adversely affect our competitive position.
       
      Since
inception, we have used equity through our equity incentive plans and our
employee stock purchase program as a fundamental component of our compensation
packages. We believe that these programs directly motivate our employees and,
through the use of vesting, encourage our employees to remain with
us. 
       
      We record
compensation expense for stock options, restricted stock units and our employee
stock purchase plan using the fair value of those awards in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles in United States of America, or U.S.
GAAP.  Stock-based compensation expense was $107.1 million, $162.7 million,
$133.4 million for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to
on-going vesting of equity awards, which negatively impacted our operating
results.  Additionally, in March 2009, we completed a cash tender
offer  to purchase certain employee stock options. A total of 28.5
million options were tendered under the offer for an aggregate cash purchase
price of $78.1 million, in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible
options.  As a result of the tender offer, we incurred a charge of
$140.2 million consisting of the remaining unamortized stock based compensation
expense associated with the unvested portion of the options tendered in the
offer, stock-based compensation expense resulting from amounts paid in excess of
the fair value of the underlying options, plus associated payroll taxes and
professional fees.  We believe that expensing employee equity
compensation will continue to negatively impact our operating
results.
       
       To
the extent that expensing employee equity compensation makes it more expensive
to grant stock options and restricted stock units or to continue to have an
employee stock purchase program, we may decide to incur increased cash
compensation costs. In addition, actions that we may take to reduce stock-based
compensation expense that may be more severe than any actions our competitors
may implement and may make it difficult to attract retain and motivate
employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our
business and operating results.
        
       We
may be required to record a charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable
intangible assets become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating
results.
       
       Under
U.S. GAAP, we review our amortizable intangible assets and goodwill for
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value
may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. The
carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable assets from acquisitions may not
be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market
capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates
in our industry or in any of our business units. Estimates of future cash flows
are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However,
actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different
from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. For example, if one
of our business units does not meet its near-term and longer-term forecasts, the
goodwill assigned to the business unit could be impaired. We may be required to
record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which
an impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to
exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations.
       
       Our
stock price continues to be volatile and investors may suffer
losses.
       
       Our
stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of
variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements
by us and our competitors, or uncertainty about current global economic
conditions. The stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and
volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology
companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies’ operating
performance.
       
       In
the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a
company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities.
For example, following our announcement in July 2008 that we would take a charge
against cost of revenue to cover anticipated costs and expenses arising from a
weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation
MCP and GPU products and that we were revising financial guidance for our second
fiscal quarter of 2009, the trading price of our common stock
declined.  In September, October and November 2008, several putative
class action lawsuits were filed against us relating to this
announcement.  Please refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for further information regarding these lawsuits. Due
to changes in the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target
of securities litigation in the future. Such lawsuits could result in the
diversion of management’s time and attention away from business operations,
which could harm our business. In addition, the costs of defense and any damages
resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the
litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. 
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          25
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      Our
operating results may be adversely affected if we are subject to unexpected tax
liabilities.
      
      We are
subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities both in the United States
and throughout the world. Tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we
operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for our
income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate
tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are
reasonable, any of the below could cause our effective tax rate to be materially
different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and
accruals:
      
      
        

              
                        
      · 
              
              
                the
      jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and
      taxed;
              
            
              
                        
      ·
              
              
                adjustments
      to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                        
      ·
              
              
                changes
      in available tax credits;
              
            
              
                         ·
              
              
                changes
      in share-based compensation
expense;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                        
      ·
              
              
                changes
      in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the United States or
      abroad or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related
      to uncertain transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was
      previously uncertain; and
              
            
              
                        
      ·
              
              
                the
      resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax
      authorities.
              
            
      
      
       Should
additional taxes be assessed as a result of any of the above, our operating
results could be adversely affected. In addition, our future effective tax rate
could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with
differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or changes in the
interpretation of tax laws.
        
      Our
failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in
a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess
inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities.
       
       We
are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations
governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain
substances in electronic products and making producers of those products
financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of
those products. For example, we are subject to the European Union Directive on
Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS Directive, that restricts
the use of a number of substances, including lead, and other hazardous
substances in electrical and electronic equipment in the market in the European
Union.   We could face significant costs and liabilities in
connection with the European Union Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic
Equipment, or WEEE. The WEEE directs members of the European Union to enact
laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of
electric and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the
collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally responsible disposal of
certain products sold into the market after August 15, 2005.
       
      It is
possible that unanticipated supply shortages, delays or excess non-compliant
inventory may occur as a result of the RoHS Directive, WEEE, and other
domestic or international environmental regulations. Failure to comply with any
applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences
including costs, fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales
limitations, criminal and civil liabilities and could impact our ability to
conduct business in the countries or states that have adopted these types of
regulations.
       
      While
we believe that we have adequate internal control over financial reporting, if
we or our independent registered public accounting firm determines that we do
not, our reputation may be adversely affected and our stock price may
decline.
       
      Section 404
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our
independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of our
internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an
ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing
necessary to comply with these requirements. However, the manner in which
companies and their independent public accounting firms apply these requirements
and test companies’ internal controls remains subject to some judgment. To date,
we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, increased expense and to
devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. Despite
our efforts, if we identify a material weakness in our internal controls, there
can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in
a timely manner, or that we will be able to maintain all of the controls
necessary to determine that our internal control over financial reporting is
effective. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial
officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our
internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under
Section 404, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and could
cause a decline in the market price of our stock.
      
      Changes in financial accounting
standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported
results of operations.
       
       We
prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with
U.S.GAAP.  These principles are constantly subject to review and
interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create
appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a
significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect
previously reported transactions.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          26
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      Provisions
in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with Microsoft
could delay or prevent a change in control. 
       
      Our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it
more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting
stock. These provisions include the following:
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      ability of our Board to create and issue preferred stock without prior
      stockholder approval;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      prohibition of stockholder action by written
  consent;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                a
      classified Board; and
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·  
              
              
                advance
      notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder
      proposals.
              
            
      
       
             
On March 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft in which we agreed
to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to
Microsoft and its licensees for use in the Xbox. Under the agreement, if an
individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater
than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Microsoft may have first
and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. The Microsoft provision and
the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control
of NVIDIA.
      
      ITEM 1B