Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners - We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations which may harm our business.”Executive Officers of the RegistrantThe following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and positions as of March 6, 2015:Name Age PositionJen-Hsun Huang 52 President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorColette M. Kress 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerAjay K. Puri 60 Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field OperationsDavid M. Shannon 59 Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and SecretaryDebora Shoquist 60 Executive Vice President, Operations Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in April 1993 and has served as its President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since its inception. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including as Director of Coreware, the business unit responsible for LSI's “system-on-chip”. From 1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford University.10Table of ContentsColette M. Kress joined NVIDIA in September 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Kress most recently served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Business Technology and Operations Finance organization at Cisco Systems, Inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. At Cisco, Ms. Kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for all business segments, engineering and operations. From 1997 to 2010 Ms. Kress held a variety of positions at Microsoft Corporation, a software company, including, beginning in 2006, Chief Financial Officer of the Server and Tools division, where Ms. Kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the division. Prior to joining Microsoft, Ms. Kress spent eight years at Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of finance positions. Ms. Kress holds a B.S. degree in Finance from University of Arizona and an M.B.A. degree from Southern Methodist University.Ajay K. Puri joined NVIDIA in December 2005 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and became Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales (subsequently renamed to Worldwide Field Operations) in January 2009. Prior to NVIDIA, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a computing systems company. Mr. Puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, an information technology company, Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., a management and technology consulting company, and Texas Instruments. Mr. Puri holds a B.S.E.E. degree from the University of Minnesota, an M.S.E.E. degree from the California Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School. David M. Shannon serves as Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary of NVIDIA. In this role, he is responsible for NVIDIA’s legal and human resources functions, as well as intellectual property licensing. Mr. Shannon joined NVIDIA in August 2002 as Vice President and General Counsel. Mr. Shannon became Secretary of NVIDIA in April 2005, a Senior Vice President in December 2005 and an Executive Vice President in January 2009. In January 2013, Mr. Shannon also became the head of Human Resources. Mr. Shannon was promoted to the role of Chief Administrative Officer in January 2014.  From 1993 to 2002, Mr. Shannon held various counsel positions at Intel, most recently the position of Vice President and Assistant General Counsel. Mr. Shannon also practiced for eight years in the law firm of Gibson Dunn and Crutcher, focusing on complex commercial and high-technology related litigation. Mr. Shannon holds B.A. and J.D. degrees from Pepperdine University. Debora Shoquist joined NVIDIA in September 2007 as Senior Vice President of Operations and became Executive Vice President of Operations in January 2009. From 2004 to 2007, Ms. Shoquist served as Executive Vice President of Operations at JDS Uniphase Corporation, a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. From 2002 to 2004, Ms. Shoquist served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Electro-Optics business at Coherent, Inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. Ms. Shoquist’s experience includes her role at Quantum Corporation, a data protection company, as the President of the Personal Computer Hard Disk Drive Division. Ms. Shoquist’s experience also includes senior roles at Hewlett-Packard. Ms. Shoquist holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Kansas State University and a B.S. degree in Biology from Santa Clara University.Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on or through our web site, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Our web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.11Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn evaluating NVIDIA and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. Any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business.Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and PartnersIf we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, our revenue and financial results will be adversely impacted.NVIDIA-branded products and services are visual computing platforms that address four large markets: Gaming, Enterprise, High Performance Computing & Cloud, and Automotive. Our GPUs and Tegra processors are designed to meet the evolving needs of these markets; however, these markets remain extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product and/or service offerings, industry standards continue to evolve and new competitors enter these markets. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify and develop new products, services and technologies, and enhancements to our existing products, services and technologies, in a timely and cost-effective manner and to achieve consumer and market acceptance of our products, services and technologies.If we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, including in significant international markets, such as China, demand for our products, services and technologies could decrease which would cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer. In addition, if we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our target markets and emerging technology trends, our business will be harmed. Our competitors’ products, services and technologies may be less costly, or their products, services and technologies may offer superior functionality or different features than ours. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. These competitors may be able to more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets, quickly transition their semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials, which could harm our business.If we fail to achieve design wins for our products our business will be harmed.For our products that we do not sell directly to consumers, achieving design wins is an integral part of our future success. Our OEM, ODM, and AIB and motherboard manufacturers' customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. If OEMs, ODMs, and AIB and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems until at least the next design configuration. In order to achieve design wins, we must:•anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand;•incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; and•price our products competitively.In general, we are limited in our ability to introduce new products and enhancements to our customers' design cycles and we must maintain compliance with evolving industry standards.  Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies.12Table of ContentsIf our intellectual property licensing strategy is not successful, our licensing revenues may decline.We intend to license our GPU cores and visual computing patent portfolio to device manufacturers who offer products in markets such as mobile. The extent of the demand to license our GPU cores or other elements of our visual computing patent portfolio is unknown and may be limited. In addition, we may not be able to renew our existing license agreements. In January 2011, we entered into a patent cross licensing agreement under which Intel agreed to pay us an aggregate of $1.50 billion over six years. The final $200.0 million payment under this agreement is scheduled to be received in January 2016, and recognized as revenue into the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. If we are unable to enter into new licensing agreements or renew our existing agreements, and these agreements are not offset by other growth in income, our financial results may be adversely affected.If our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market share.Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. Our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive industry. Failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by OEMs, ODMs, AIBs and Tier 1 automotive suppliers, and to the user of such end product. Any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, cause us to lose market share, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins and harm our relationships with customers. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including our customers' costs to repair or replace products in the field. A product recall, particularly an automotive recall, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, could damage our reputation, could result in the shifting of business to our competitors and could result in litigation against us such as product liability suits. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business.  System security and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation.Security breaches, computer malware and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years.  These attacks have occurred on our systems in the past and may occur in the future. Experienced computer programmers, hackers and employees may be able to penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, or that of our employees or third parties. These attacks may create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. These hackers may also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in our products. For portions of our IT infrastructure, including business management and communication software products, we rely on products and services provided by third parties. These providers may also experience breaches and attacks to their products which may impact our systems. Data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, such as actions by an employee with access to our systems. Actual or perceived breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our partners, our customers or third parties could expose us, our partners, our customers, third parties or the individuals affected, to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. Our efforts to prevent and overcome these challenges could increase our expenses and may not be successful. We may experience interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other critical functions. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation.13Table of ContentsWe depend on third parties and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products, which reduces our control over product quantity and quality, development, enhancement and product delivery schedule and could harm our business.We do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our GPUs and Tegra processors and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. Instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. Similarly, we do not assemble, test or package our products, but instead rely on independent subcontractors, such as Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., BYD Auto Co., Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., JSI Logistics, Ltd., King Yuan Electronics Co. and Siliconware Precision Industries Co. Ltd. We do not have long-term commitment contracts with these foundries or subcontractors.  As a result, we face several significant risks which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results, including:•a lack of guaranteed supply of wafers and other components and potential higher wafer and component prices due to supply constraints;•a failure by our foundries to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products;•a failure to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis;•loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor  and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier;•a lack of direct control over delivery schedules or product quantity and quality; and•delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors orders over our orders or otherwise.We also rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. To bring new products and enhancements to market in a timely manner, we utilize sophisticated and technologically advanced software development tools to complete our design, simulations and verifications. In the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products and enhancements as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. In the future, the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. If we miss design cycles or lose design wins due to the unavailability of such software development tools, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline.If our products fail to achieve expected manufacturing yields, our financial results could be adversely impacted and our reputation with our customers may be harmed.Manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the foundry. Low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. We do not know whether a yield problem will exist until our design is actually manufactured by the foundry. When a yield issue is identified, the product is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the manufacturing process and require us and the foundry to cooperate to resolve the problem. Because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity, any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in higher manufacturing costs and require us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. Lower than expected yields could harm customer relationships, our reputation and our financial results.  14Table of ContentsBusiness disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs.Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and increase our costs and expenses. Any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. In addition, a majority of our principal IT datacenters are located in California, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in this geographical area. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including Taiwan, China and Korea. Our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. The ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. In the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, our revenue could decline and our business may be harmed.We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers and our revenue could decline if we lose any of these customers.We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue, was 11% of our total revenue from one customer in fiscal year 2015, 21% of our total revenue from two customers in fiscal year 2014, and 13% of our total revenue from one customer in fiscal year 2013. The percentage of revenue we receive from our largest customers has fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our GPUs and Tegra processors. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because:•substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty;•our customers may develop their own solutions;•our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or•our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products.The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in purchases by them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations and any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could harm our operating results and financial condition.We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments and obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers.  In the future, we may have to record additional provisions or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results and we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient.Our gross margin depends on a number of factors and changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross margin.Our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including the mix of our products sold, average selling prices, introduction of new products, product transitions, sales discounts, pricing actions by our competitors, the cost of product components and the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products. We are focused on improving our gross margin and if we are not able to control or estimate the impact of the above factors or other factors we do not foresee, our gross margins may be negatively impacted. In addition, gross margins for our Tegra processors are lower than our overall corporate gross margins. If Tegra processors comprise a higher percentage of our future revenue, or if we continue to enter into new business areas with comparatively lower margins, our overall gross margins may decline.15Table of ContentsIf we fail to estimate customer demand properly our financial results could be harmed.We manufacture our GPUs and Tegra processors based on estimates of customer demand. In order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur, or may build inventory anticipating demand for a customer’s product that does not materialize. In estimating demand, we make multiple assumptions any of which may prove to be incorrect. Situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include:•changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in our target markets and/or overall economy;•changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market;•a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products;•a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or customer requirements;•our introduction of new products resulting in lower demand for older products ; or•increased competition, including competitive pricing actions.In addition, the cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margins. In addition, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. We could be required to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or market or write-off excess inventory, and we could experience a reduction in average selling prices if we incorrectly forecast product demand, any of which could harm our financial results.Conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill customers' orders on a timely basis. Even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner. If we fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be damaged.We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations which may harm our business.We conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the United States. Our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the United States and Other Americas.  We also generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales to customers outside the United States and Other Americas. Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and Other Americas accounted for 75% of total revenue for both fiscal year 2015 and 2014 and 74% of total revenue for fiscal year 2013. The global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:•international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business;•unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements;  •differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices;•local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anticorruption laws and regulations;•exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; •financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and foreign exchange rate fluctuations; and•increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits.If sales to any of our customers outside of the United States and Other Americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted.16Table of ContentsWe may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. We have in the past and intend to continue to acquire and invest in other businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products and business. Any of the following risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results:•difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business;•diversion of capital and other resources, including management's attention;•assumption of liabilities;•incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets;•potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial contingencies, among other things; and•impairment of relationships with employees, vendors and customers, or the loss of any of our key employees, vendors or customers or our target's key employees, vendors or customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment.      Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Common Stock and Other MattersActions to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, such as litigation to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to enforce our intellectual property rights, could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we fail to take such actions or are unsuccessful in doing so.We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our intellectual property in the United States and internationally. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. This makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing and new innovations and technologies, but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether we will be able to enforce such protections.We have in the past and may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. An unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief.We may commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to protect our intellectual property rights. Such proceedings may increase our operating expenses, which could negatively impact our operating results. Further, we could be subject to countersuits as a result of our initiation of litigation. For example, in September 2014, we filed complaints against Qualcomm, Inc. and various Samsung entities with both the ITC and the United States District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of seven patents relating to graphics processing. In November 2014, various Samsung entities filed a complaint against us and Velocity Micro for alleged infringement of Samsung’s patents. If infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third parties' patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third parties' patent or other intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. If we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. We may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results.17Table of ContentsOur operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline.Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors.  For example, our operating expenses represent a significant portion of total revenue and are largely independent of revenue in any particular period. In particular, our research and development expenses reflect multi-year commitments to the development of new products and enhancements that will not result in revenue, if any, until future periods. Therefore, investors should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance.Factors that could affect our results of operations in the future include:•demand and market acceptance for our products and/or our customers’ products;•the successful development and volume production of our next-generation products;•our inability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to multi-year development cycle for some of our products and services;•new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors;•our introduction of new products in accordance with OEMs’ design requirements and design cycles;•changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our customers’ products;•the level of growth or decline of the PC industry in general; •seasonal fluctuations associated with the PC and consumer products market;•contraction in automotive and consumer end-market demand due to adverse regional or worldwide economic conditions;•slower than expected growth of demand for new technologies;•fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields; •our ability to reduce the manufacturing costs of our products;•competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices;•product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues;•rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders;•the loss of a significant customer;•substantial disruption in the operations of our foundries or other third-party subcontractors, as a result of a natural disaster, equipment failure, terrorism or other causes;•supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our customers’ products, including memory devices;•costs associated with the repair and replacement of defective products;•unexpected inventory write-downs or write-offs;•legal and other costs related to defending intellectual property and other types of lawsuits;•availability of software and technology licenses at commercially reasonable terms for the continued sale or development of new products;•customer bad debt write-offs;•changes in our effective tax rate as a result of changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, applicable tax laws or interpretations of tax laws; •any unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities;•unexpected costs related to our ownership of real property;•costs to comply with new government regulations, such as the SEC’s conflict mineral regulations, and regulatory enforcement actions;•costs to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; •our inability to forecast changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards; and•general macroeconomic events and factors affecting the overall semiconductor industry.Any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future financial results.  Any such failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts could cause our stock price to decline or experience substantial price volatility and, as a result, investors may suffer losses.In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, the target of securities litigation. Such lawsuits generally result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. In addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results.18Table of ContentsWe have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations.In December 2013, we issued $1.5 billion of 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018, or 1.00% Notes. Our substantial indebtedness may:•limit our ability to use our cash flow or borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes;  •make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and•increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.The exercise of warrants issued to Goldman, Sachs & Co. concurrently with our 1.00% Notes would, and the conversion of our 1.00% Notes could, dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders.The warrants issued concurrently with our 1.00% Notes will be deemed to be automatically exercised on certain dates between March 2019 and June 2019, unless Goldman, Sachs & Co. notifies us otherwise. Any issuance by us of additional shares to Goldman, Sachs & Co. upon exercise of the warrants will dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. In addition, the conversion of our 1.00% Notes will dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders and could have a dilutive effect on our net income per share to the extent that the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of the 1.00% Notes. Any sales in the public market by Goldman, Sachs & Co. of our common stock upon exercise of the warrants or sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the 1.00% Notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with Microsoft Corporation could delay or prevent a change in control.Our status as a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions include the following:•the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior shareholder approval;•the prohibition of shareholder action by written consent;•advance notice requirements for director nominations and shareholder proposals;•the ability of our Board of Directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without shareholder approval;•a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;•the inability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and•the ability of our Board of Directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws.On March 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to Microsoft and its licensees for use in the Xbox. Under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. The Microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire.ITEM 1B