ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS
     
        In evaluating
NVIDIA and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition
to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Before
you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment
involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below.
Additionally, any one of the following risks could seriously harm our business,
financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price
to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that
we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business
operations.
    
    Risks
Related to Our Business and Industry
     
        Global
economic conditions have reduced demand for our products, adversely impacted our
customers and suppliers and harmed our business.
     
        Our
operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic
conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a
continuing risk to our business as consumers and businesses have postponed
spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines
in income or asset values, which have reduced the demand for our products. Other
factors that could depress demand for our products in the future include
conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and
healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic
factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors
have reduced demand for our products and could further harm our business,
financial condition and operating results.
     
        The current
financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the
possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business
have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in
many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency
and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit
crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in
product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain
credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel
partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may
negatively impact our treasury operations. Other income and expense could also
vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the
sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt
securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash,
cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. For example, during fiscal
year 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $5.6 million related to our money
market investment in the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or the
International Reserve Fund. The current volatility in the financial markets and
overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized
in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the
fair values currently assigned to them.
     
        Our business
is cyclical in nature and is currently experiencing a severe downturn, which has
harmed and may continue to harm our financial results.
     
        Our business
is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor
industry, which is currently experiencing a severe downturn. The semiconductor
industry has been adversely affected by many factors, including the current
global downturn, ongoing efforts by our customers to reduce their spending,
diminished product demand, increased inventory levels, lower average selling
prices, uncertainty regarding long-term growth rates and underlying financial
health and increased competition. These factors, could, among other things,
limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue and in
turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial
condition.  If our actions to reduce our operating expenses to
sufficiently offset these factors during this downturn are unsuccessful, our
operating results will suffer.
     
        Our revenue
may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our
results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of
expectations.
     
        Demand for
many of our revenue components fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and our
operating expenses are relatively fixed and largely independent of revenue.
Therefore, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or
losses in any particular period.  Our operating expenses, which are
comprised of research and development expenses, sales, general and
administrative expenses and restructuring and other charges, represented 36%,
25% and 28% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  Since we often recognize a substantial portion of our
revenue in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to adjust our
operating expenses in a timely manner in response to any unanticipated revenue
shortfalls in any quarter as was the case in the fourth quarter of fiscal year
2009. Our operating expenses, which are comprised of research and development
expenses and sales, general and administrative expenses and restructuring and
other charges, represented 66% of our total revenue for the fourth quarter of
fiscal year 2009. Further, some of our operating expenses, like stock-based
compensation expense can only be adjusted over a longer period of time and
cannot be reduced during a quarter.  If we are unable to reduce operating
expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls, our financial results
will be negatively impacted.
    
      
        
           

          
          
        
         

      
      
        15
        
          
        
      
      
         

      
    
       
In September 2008, we announced a workforce reduction to allow for continued
investment in strategic growth areas, which was completed in the third quarter
of fiscal year 2009. As a result, we eliminated approximately 360 positions
worldwide, or about 6.5% of our global workforce.  During fiscal year
2009, expenses associated with the workforce reduction, which were comprised
primarily of severance and benefits payments to these employees, totaled $8.0
million. We anticipate that the expected decrease in operating expenses from
this action will be offset by continued investment in strategic growth areas. In
addition, in response to the current economic environment, we have commenced
several cost reduction measures which are designed to reduce our operating
expenses and will continue to focus on reducing our operating expenses during
fiscal year 2010. Please refer to the discussion in Note 19 to the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this
Form 10-K for the potential impact of the tender offer on operating
expenses during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010.
     
        Any one or
more of the risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other factors
could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income.
Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of
operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.
Similarly, the results of any quarterly or full fiscal year period are not
necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a subsequent quarter or a
full fiscal year. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our
operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or
investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.
We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to
be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit
and results of operations.
     
        Our failure
to estimate customer demand properly could adversely affect our financial
results.
     
        We
manufacture our products based on forecasts of customer demand in order to have
shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our
customers.  As a result, we may build inventories for anticipated
periods of growth which do not occur or may build inventory anticipating demand
for a product that does not materialize. The current negative worldwide economic
conditions and market instability makes it increasingly difficult for us, our
customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends.
In forecasting demand, we make multiple assumptions any of which may prove to be
incorrect. Situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory
include:
     
    
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                if
      there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our
      products;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                if
      there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly
      changing technology and customer
requirements;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                if
      we fail to estimate customer demand properly for our older products as our
      newer products are introduced; or
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                if
      our competition were to take unexpected competitive pricing
      actions.
              
            
        
          Any inability
to sell products to which we have devoted resources could harm our business. In
addition, cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in
our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margin and
restrict our ability to fund operations. Additionally, because we often sell a
substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may
not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in
response to customer cancellations or deferrals. We could be subject to excess
or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding inventory
write-downs and/or a reduction in average selling prices if growth slows or does
not materialize, or if we incorrectly forecast product demand, which could
negatively impact our financial results.
     
        Conversely,
if we underestimate our customers’ demand for our products, our third party
manufacturing partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase
production for us meaning that we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory
to fill our customers’ orders on a timely basis. Even if we are able to increase
production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost
effective or timely manner. Inability to fulfill our customers’ orders on a
timely basis, or at all, could damage our customer relationships, result in lost
revenue, cause a loss in market share, impact our customer relationships or
damage our reputation, any of which could adversely impact our
business.
    
        Because our
gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, our failure to
forecast changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross
margin.
     
        We are
focused on improving our gross margin. Our gross margin for any period depends
on a number of factors, including:
     
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      mix of our products sold;
            
          
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                average
      selling prices;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                introduction
      of new products;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                product
      transitions;
              
            
        
      
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              sales
      discounts;
            
          
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                unexpected
      pricing actions by our competitors;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      cost of product components; and
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our
      products.
              
            
        
      
          During the
fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, our gross margin declined to 29.4% as
compared to 45.7% during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 and decreased
from 41.0% from the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. If we do not correctly
forecast the impact of any of the relevant factors on our business, there may
not be any actions we can take or we may not be able to take any possible
actions in time to counteract any negative impact on our gross margin.
Additionally, during fiscal year 2009, the revenue and gross margins from our
sale of desktop products decreased primarily due to a decline in the Standalone
Desktop market segment as reported in the December 2008 PC Graphics Report from
Mercury Research. This decline was driven by a combination of market migration
from desktop PCs towards notebook PCs and an overall market shift in the mix of
products towards lower priced products. If the overall shift in the demand from
the consumer continues to shift towards lower priced products, it will have an
adverse impact on our gross margin. In addition, if we are unable to meet our
gross margin target for any period or the target set by analysts, the trading
price of our common stock may decline.
      
        
          
          
        
        
          16
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
    
        We are
dependent on the personal computer market and its rate of growth in the future
may have a negative impact on our business.
     
        We derive and
expect to continue to derive the majority of our revenue from the sale or
license of products for use in the desktop personal computer, or PC, and
notebook PC markets, including professional workstations. A reduction in sales
of PCs, or a reduction in the growth rate of PC sales, may reduce demand for our
products. These changes in demand could be large and sudden. During fiscal year
2009, sales of our desktop GPU products decreased by approximately 29% compared
to fiscal year 2008. These decreases were primarily due to the Standalone
Desktop GPU market segment decline as reported in the PC Graphics December 2008
Report from Mercury Research.   Since PC manufacturers often
build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with
excess inventories if growth slows or if they incorrectly forecast product
transitions. In these cases, PC manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially
all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until their excess
inventory has been absorbed, which would have a negative impact on our financial
results.
     
        If we are
unable to compete in the markets for our products, our financial results could
be adversely impacted.
     
        The market
for GPUs, MCPs, and computer-on-a-chip products that support netbooks, PNDs,
PMPs, PDAs, cellular phones or other handheld devices is intensely competitive
and is characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions,
evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices.  We
believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance,
breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels,
software support, conformity to industry standard Application Programming
Interface, or APIs, manufacturing capabilities, price of processors, and total
system costs. We believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on
how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers
will demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our
products at acceptable levels of quality. We expect competition to increase from
both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less
costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not
provided by our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors or
alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share.
 We believe other factors impacting our ability to compete
are: 
    
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                product
      performance;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                product
      bundling by competitors with multiple product
  lines;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                breadth
      and frequency of product offerings;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                access
      to customers and distribution
channels;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                backward-forward
      software support;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                conformity
      to industry standard application programming interfaces;
    and
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                manufacturing
      capabilities.
              
            
        
      
    
        
        A significant
source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide GPU,
MCP, and computer-on-a-chip products that support netbooks, PNDs, PMPs, PDAs,
cellular phones or other handheld devices. Some of our competitors may have
greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we
do and may be more able to adapt to customer or technological changes.
Currently, Intel Corporation, or Intel, which has greater resources than we do,
is working on a multi-core architecture code-named Larrabee, which may compete
with our products in various markets.  Intel may also release an
enthusiast level discrete GPU based on the Larrabee architecture. Additionally,
in fiscal year 2009, Intel also introduced the Intel Atom processor which is
designed for lower cost PCs. Intel may also release a second generation of Atom
chips by 2010 which is expected to have an improved battery life. The Intel Atom
processor may compete with our products that support netbooks, PDAs, cellular
phones and other handheld devices.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        17
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
        Our current
competitors include the following:
     
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              suppliers
      of discrete MCPs that incorporate a combination of networking, audio,
      communications and input/output, or I/O, functionality as part of their
      existing solutions, such as AMD, Broadcom Corporation, or Broadcom,
      Silicon Integrated Systems, Inc., or SIS, VIA Technologies,
      Inc., or VIA, and Intel;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              suppliers
      of GPUs, including MCPs that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part
      of their existing solutions, such as AMD, Intel, Matrox Electronics
      Systems Ltd., SIS, and VIA;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              suppliers
      of computer-on-a-chip products that support netbooks, PNDs, PMPs, PDAs,
      cellular phones or other handheld devices such as AMD, Broadcom, Fujitsu
      Limited, Imagination Technologies Ltd., ARM Holdings plc, Marvell
      Technology Group Ltd, or Marvell, NEC Corporation, Qualcomm Incorporated,
      Renesas Technology, Samsung, Seiko-Epson, Texas Instruments Incorporated,
      and Toshiba America, Inc.; and
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              suppliers
      of computer-on-a-chip products for handheld and embedded devices that
      incorporate multimedia processing as part of their existing solutions such
      as Broadcom, Texas Instruments Inc., Qualcomm Incorporated, Marvell,
      Freescale Semiconductor Inc., Renesas Technology, Samsung, and ST
      Microelectronics.
            
          
      
    
        
        If and to the
extent we offer products in new markets, we may face competition from some of
our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do
not compete. For example, in the case of our CPB, our Tegra and GoForce products
primarily compete in architecture used in multimedia cellular phones and
handheld devices.  We believe that mobile devices like phones,
music players, and portable navigation devices will increasingly become more
consumer PC-like and be capable of delivering all the entertainment and web
experiences in a handheld device. We cannot accurately predict if we will
compete successfully in any of the new markets we may enter. If we are unable to
compete in our current or new markets, demand for our products could decrease
which could cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to
suffer.
     
        Our GPU and
MCP products are currently used with both Intel and AMD
processors.   In February 2009, Intel filed suit against us,
related to a patent license agreement that we signed with Intel in 2004. Intel
seeks an order from the court declaring that the license does not extend to a
new Intel processor architecture and enjoining us from stating that we have
licensing rights for this architecture.  If Intel successfully obtains
such a court order, we could be unable to sell our MCP products for use with
these Intel processors and our competitive position would be
harmed.  In addition, in order to continue to sell MCP products for
use with these Intel processors we could be required to negotiate a new license
agreement with Intel and we may not be able to do so on reasonable terms, if at
all.
     
        As Intel and
AMD continue to pursue platform solutions, we may not be able to successfully
compete and our business would be negatively impacted.
     
        We expect
substantial competition from both Intel’s and AMD’s strategy of selling platform
solutions, such as the success Intel achieved with its Centrino platform
solution.  AMD has also announced a platform solution. Additionally, we
expect that Intel and AMD will extend this strategy to other segments, including
the possibility of successfully integrating a central processing unit, or CPU,
and a GPU on the same chip, as evidenced by AMD’s announcement of its Fusion
processor project. If AMD and Intel continue to pursue platform solutions, we
may not be able to successfully compete and our business would be negatively
impacted.
     
        If our
products contain significant defects our financial results could be negatively
impacted, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market
share.
     
        Our products
are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of
issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system.
If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or
other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts
to find and correct the issue.  Such efforts could divert our
engineers’ attention from the development of new products and technologies and
could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an
error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after
commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market
acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse
customers, including our customers’ costs to repair or replace products in the
field. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be
expensive, damage our reputation, could result in the shifting of business to
our competitors and could result in litigation against us. Costs associated with
correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could
materially harm our financial results. For example, in July 2008, we recorded a
$196.0 million charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer
warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a
weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation
media and communications processor, or MCP, and GPU products used in notebook
systems. In September, October and November 2008, several putative class action
lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted
MCP and GPU products.  Please refer to the risk entitled “We are subject to litigation arising
from alleged defects in our previous generation MCP and GPU products, which if
determined adversely to us, could harm our business” for the risk
associated with this litigation.
    
      
        
           

          
          
        
         

      
      
        18
        
          
        
      
      
         

      
    
       
We
are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our
business.
     
        We conduct
our business worldwide.  Our semiconductor wafers are manufactured,
assembled, tested and packaged by third-parties located outside of the United
States.  We generated 87%, 89% and 86% of our revenue for fiscal years
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, from sales to customers outside the United
States and other Americas. As of January 25, 2009, we had offices in fifteen
countries outside of the United States.  The manufacture, assembly,
test and packaging of our products outside of the United States, operation of
offices outside of the United States, and sales to customers internationally
subjects us to a number of risks, including:
     
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              international
      economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between
      countries in which we do business;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              unexpected
      changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements;
       
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              complying
      with a variety of foreign laws;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              differing
      legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and
      employment practices;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              cultural
      differences in the conduct of
business; 
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              inadequate
      local infrastructure that could result in business
      disruptions; 
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              exporting
      or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs,
      quotas and other trade barriers and
  restrictions; 
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              financial
      risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts
      receivable and fluctuations in currency exchange
  rates;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              imposition
      of additional taxes and
penalties; and
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              other
      factors beyond our control such as terrorism, civil unrest, war and
      diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and the Avian flu.
       
            
          
      
    
     
        If sales to
any of our customers outside of the United States and other Americas are delayed
or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively
impacted.
     
        Our
international operations in Australia, China, Finland, France, Germany, Hong
Kong, India, Japan, Korea, Russia, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, and
the United Kingdom are subject to many of the above listed risks. Difficulties
with our international operations, including finding appropriate staffing and
office space, may divert management’s attention and other resources any of which
could negatively impact our operating results.
     
        The economic
conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in Asia, may negatively
impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international sales to
date have been denominated in United States dollars. Accordingly, an
increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign
currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or
require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign
currencies. We anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a
greater degree as we further expand our international business
activities.
     
        If our
products do not continue to be adopted by the desktop PC, notebook PC,
workstation, high-performance computing, netbook, personal media player, or PMP,
personal digital assistant, or PDA, cellular handheld device, and video game
console markets or if the demand for new and innovative products in these
markets decreases, our business and operating results would suffer.
     
        Our success
depends in part upon continued broad adoption of our processors for 3D graphics
and multimedia in desktop PC, notebook PC, workstation, high-performance
computing, netbooks, PMPs, PDAs, cellular handheld devices, and video game
console applications. The market for processors has been characterized by
unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often
caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in
pricing of dynamic random-access memory devices and other changes in the total
system cost of add-in boards, as well as by severe price competition and by
frequent new technology and product introductions. Broad market acceptance is
difficult to achieve and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to
sustain due to intense competition and frequent new technology and product
introductions. Our GPU and MCP businesses together comprised approximately 75%,
79% and 77% of our revenue during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  As such, our financial results would suffer if for any
reason our current or future GPUs or MCPs do not continue to achieve widespread
adoption by the PC market. If we are unable to complete the timely development
of new products or if we were unable to successfully and cost-effectively
manufacture and deliver products that meet the requirements of the desktop PC,
notebook PC, workstation, high-performance computing, netbook, PMP, PDA,
cellular phone, and video game console markets, we may experience a decrease in
revenue which could negatively impact our operating results.
     
        Additionally,
there can be no assurance that the industry will continue to demand new products
with improved standards, features or performance. If our customers, OEMs, ODMs,
add-in-card and motherboard manufacturers, system builders and consumer
electronics companies, do not continue to design products that require more
advanced or efficient processors and/or the market does not continue to demand
new products with increased performance, features, functionality or standards,
sales of our products could decline and the markets for our products could
shrink. Decreased sales of our products for these markets could negatively
impact our revenue and our financial results.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        19
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
        Our business
results could be adversely affected if the identification and development of new
products or entry into or development of a new market is delayed or
unsuccessful.
     
        In order to
maintain or improve our financial results, we will need to continue to identify
and develop new products as well as identify and enter new
markets.  As our GPUs and other processors develop and competition
increases, we anticipate that product life cycles at the high end will remain
short and average selling prices will decline. In particular, average selling
prices and gross margins for our GPUs and other processors could decline as each
product matures and as unit volume increases. As a result, we will need to
introduce new products and enhancements to existing products to maintain or
improve overall average selling prices, our gross margin and our financial
results. We believe the success of our new product introductions will
depend on many factors outlined elsewhere in these risk factors as well as the
following:
     
    
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                market
      demand for new products and enhancements to existing
    products;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                timely
      completion and introduction of new product designs and new opportunities
      for existing products;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                seamless
      transitions from an older product to a new
  product;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                differentiation
      of our new products from those of our
  competitors;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                delays
      in volume shipments of our
products;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                market
      acceptance of our products instead of our customers' products;
      and
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                availability
      of adequate quantity and configurations of various types of memory
      products.
              
            
        
      
       
          In the past,
we have experienced delays in the development and adoption of new products and
have been unable to successfully manage product transitions from older to newer
products resulting in obsolete inventory.
    
     
        To be
successful, we must also enter new markets or develop new uses for our future or
existing products. We cannot accurately predict if our current or existing
products or technologies will be successful in the new opportunities or markets
that we identify for them or that we will compete successfully in any new
markets we may enter. For example, we have developed products and other
technology in order for certain general-purpose computing operations to be
performed on a GPU rather than a CPU.  This general purpose computing,
which is often referred to as GP computing, was a new use for the GPU which had
been entirely used for graphics rendering.  During fiscal year 2008,
we introduced our NVIDIA Tesla family of products, which was our entry into the
high-performance computing industry, a new market for us.  We also
offer our CUDA software development solution, which is a C language programming
environment for GPUs, that allows parallel computing on the GPU by using
standard C language to create programs that process large quantities of data in
parallel.  Some of our competitors, including Intel, are now developing
their own solutions for the discrete graphics and computing markets. Our failure
to successfully develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance for new GPUs,
other products or other technologies or to enter into new markets or identify
new uses for existing or future products, could result in rapidly declining
average selling prices, reduced demand for our products or loss of market share
any of which could cause our revenue, gross margin and overall financial results
to suffer.
     
        If we are
unable to achieve design wins, our products may not be adopted by our target
markets or customers either of which could negatively impact our financial
results.
     
        The success
of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to develop new
competitive products for our target markets and customers. We believe achieving
design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen for
hardware components or subassemblies designed by OEMs, ODMs, add-in board and
motherboard manufacturers, is an integral part of our future success. Our OEM,
ODM, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers’ customers typically
introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based
on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. Accordingly,
when our customers are making their design decisions, our existing products must
have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products in
order to be included in our customers’ new system configurations. This requires
that we:
    
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                anticipate
      the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand;
       
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                incorporate
      those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting
      design requirements of our
customers;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                price
      our products competitively; and
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                introduce
      products to the market within our customers’ limited design cycles.
       
              
            
        
          If OEMs,
ODMs, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products
in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems
until at least the next design configuration. Therefore, we endeavor to develop
close relationships with our OEMs and ODMs, in an attempt to better anticipate
and address customer needs in new products so that we will achieve design
wins.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        20
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
        Our ability
to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and be
compliant with evolving industry standards. Unanticipated changes in industry
standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by
major hardware manufacturers and software developers like AMD, Intel and
Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft.  If our products are not in
compliance with prevailing industry standards, we may not be designed into our
customers’ product designs.  However, to be compliant with changes to
industry standards, we may have to invest significant time and resources to
redesign our products which could negatively impact our gross margin or
operating results. If we are unable to achieve new design wins for existing or
new customers, we may lose market share and our operating results would be
negatively impacted.
     
        We may have
to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which
could increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating
results.
     
        If new
competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new
markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater
resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our
operating expenses would increase. We had 3,772 full-time employees engaged in
research and development as of January 25, 2009, compared to 3,255 employees as
of January 27, 2008 and 2,668 employees as of January 28, 2007,
respectively.  Research and development expenditures were $855.9
million, $691.6 million and $553.5 million, for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively.  Research and development expenses included stock-based
compensation expense of $98.0 million, $76.6 million and $70.1 million for
fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. If we are required to invest
significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development
efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could
further decline. Research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from
time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research
and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue
which could negatively impact our financial results. In order to remain
competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources
to research and development.
     
        We are
dependent on key employees and the loss of any of these employees could
negatively impact our business.
     
        Our future
success and ability to compete is substantially dependent on our ability to
identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified key personnel.  The
market for key employees in the semiconductor industry can be
competitive.  None of our key employees is bound by an employment
agreement, meaning our relationships with all of our key employees are at will.
 The loss of the services of any of our other key employees without an
adequate replacement or our inability to hire new employees as needed could
delay our product development efforts, harm our ability to sell our products or
otherwise negatively impact our business.
     
        In September
2008, we reduced our global workforce by approximately 6.5% as part of our
efforts to allow continued investment in strategic growth areas.  This
reduction in our workforce may impair our ability to recruit and retain
qualified employees of our workforce as a result of a perceived risk of future
workforce reductions.  Employees, whether or not directly affected by
the reduction, may also seek future employment with our business partners,
customers or competitors.   In addition, we rely on stock-based
awards as one means for recruiting, motivating and retaining highly skilled
talent.  If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as
measured by the performance of the price of our common stock or if our
share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit,
our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which
could harm our results of operations.  The significant decline in the
trading price of our common stock has resulted in the exercise price of a
significant portion of our outstanding options to significantly exceed the
current trading price of our common stock, thus lessening the effectiveness of
these stock-based awards.  We may not continue to successfully attract
and retain key personnel which would harm our business.
     
        We may not be
able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business
acquisitions or strategic investments, which could hurt our ability to grow our
business, develop new products or sell our products.
     
         We have
acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and
technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products
and business. We may enter into future acquisitions of, or investments in,
businesses, in order to complement or expand our current businesses or enter
into a new business market. Negotiations associated with an acquisition or
strategic investment could divert management’s attention and other company
resources. Any of the following risks associated with past or future
acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business,
develop new products, our ability to sell our products, and ultimately could
have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results:
     
    
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the
      acquired business with our
business;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in operating in a new or multiple new
locations;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                disruption
      of our ongoing businesses or the ongoing business of the company we invest
      in or acquire;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the
      transaction;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                difficulty
      in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and
      policies;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                disruption
      of or delays in ongoing research and development
  efforts;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                diversion
      of capital and other resources;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                assumption
      of liabilities;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                diversion
      of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation
      arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or
      investments;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              ·  
              difficulties
      in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and
      where competitors in such markets have stronger positions;
and
            
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                impairment
      of relationships with employees and customers, or the loss of any of our
      key employees or customers our target’s key employees or customers, as a
      result of our acquisition or
investment.
              
            
        
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          21
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
          In addition,
the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of
our common stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities or a combination
of cash, convertible debt and common stock. If we make an investment in cash or
use cash to pay for all or a portion of an acquisition, our cash reserves would
be reduced which could negatively impact the growth of our business or our
ability to develop new products. However, if we pay the consideration with
shares of common stock, or convertible debentures, the holdings of our existing
stockholders would be diluted. The significant decline in the trading price of
our common stock would make the dilution to our stockholders more extreme and
could negatively impact our ability to pay the consideration with shares of
common stock or convertible debentures. We cannot forecast the number, timing or
size of future strategic investments or acquisitions, or the effect that any
such investments or acquisitions might have on our operations or financial
results.
     
        We are
exposed to credit risk, fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio
investments and in interest rates.
     
        We account
for our investment instruments in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, or SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities. All of the cash equivalents and marketable
securities are treated as “available-for-sale” under SFAS No. 115. Investments
in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree
of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value
adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate
securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in
part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of
expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of
our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be
other-than-temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell
securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest
rates. Future declines in the market values of our cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and operating results.  However, because any debt securities
we hold are classified as “available-for-sale,” no gains or losses are realized
in our Consolidated Statements of Operations due to changes in interest
rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in
value are determined to be other-than-temporary.
     
        At January
25, 2009 and January 27, 2008, we had $1.26 billion and $1.81 billion,
respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities.  Given the global nature of our business, we have invested
both domestically and internationally.  All of our investments are
denominated in United States dollars. We invest in a variety of financial
instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed
securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by
Government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt
securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government
and its agencies. As of January 25, 2009, we did not have any investments in
auction-rate preferred securities.  As of January 25, 2009, our
investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises
represented approximately 71% of our total investment portfolio, while the
financial sector accounted for approximately 17% of our total investment
portfolio.
     
        The current
volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases
the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial
instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned
to them. Other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations
depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial
instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and
other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable
securities balances. For instance, we recorded other than temporary
impairment charges of $9.9 million during fiscal year 2009. These charges
include $5.6 million related to what we believe is an other than temporary
impairment of our investment in the money market funds held by the Reserve
International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund; $2.5 million
related to a decline in the value of publicly traded equity securities and $1.8
million related to debt securities held by us that were issued by companies that
have filed for bankruptcy as of January 25, 2009.  Please refer to
Note 17 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV,
Item 15 of this Form 10-K for further details. Subsequent to year-end,
on January 30, 2009, we received $84.4 million from the International Reserve
Fund. This was our portion of a payout of approximately 65% of the total assets
of the Fund. Each shareholder’s percentage of this distribution was determined
by dividing the shareholder’s total unfunded redeemed shares by the aggregate
unfunded redeemed shares of the Fund, which was then used to calculate the
shareholder’s pro rata portion of this distribution. We expect to receive the
proceeds of our remaining investment in the International Reserve Fund,
excluding the $5.6 million that we have recorded as an other than temporary
impairment, by no later than October 2009, when all of the underlying securities
held by the International Reserve Fund are scheduled to have matured. However,
redemptions from the International Reserve Fund are currently subject to pending
litigation, which could cause further delay in receipt of our funds. In
addition, we may determine that further impairment of our investment in the
International Reserve Fund may be necessary.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        22
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
    Risks
Related to Our Partners and Customers
     
        We depend on
foundries to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to
satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our
business.
     
        We do
not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our products and do not own or
operate a wafer fabrication facility. Instead, we are dependent on
industry-leading foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Corporation, or TSMC, to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their
state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques. The foundries, which have
limited capacity, also manufacture products for other semiconductor companies,
including some of our competitors.  Since we do not have long-term
commitment contracts with any of these foundries, they do not have an obligation
to provide us with any minimum quantity of product at any time or at any set
price, except as may be provided in a specific purchase
order.   Most of our products are only manufactured by one
foundry at a time.  In times of high demand, the foundries could
choose to prioritize their capacity for other companies, reduce or eliminate
deliveries to us, or increase the prices that they charge us.  If we
are unable to meet customer demand due to reduced or eliminated deliveries or
have to increase the prices of our products, we could lose sales to customers,
which would negatively impact our revenue and our reputation.
     
        Because the
lead-time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new manufacturing
partner could be several quarters, we do not have an alternative source of
supply for our products. In addition, the time and effort to qualify a new
foundry could result in additional expense, diversion of resources, or lost
sales, any of which would negatively impact our financial results. We believe
that long-term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable
relationships with the third-party manufacturers we use to ensure adequate
product supply and competitive pricing to respond to customer
demand.
     
        Failure to
achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact
our financial results and damage our reputation.
     
        Manufacturing
yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed
largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the
manufacturer. Low yields may result from either product design or process
technology failure.  We do not know a yield problem exists until our
design is manufactured.  When a yield issue is identified, the product
is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. As a result, yield problems may
not be identified until well into the production process. Resolution of yield
problems requires cooperation by, and communication between, us and the
manufacturer. Because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry
capacity, decreases in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our
costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers.
Lower than expected yields could potentially harm customer relationships, our
reputation and our financial results.
     
        We are
dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products,
which reduces our control over the delivery schedule, product quantity or
product quality.
     
        Our products
are assembled, tested and packaged by independent subcontractors, such as
Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., Amkor Technology, JSI Logistics, Ltd.,
King Yuan Electronics Co., Siliconware Precision Industries Co. Ltd., and
ChipPAC. As a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules,
product quantity, or product quality.  All of these subcontractors
assemble, test and package products for other companies, including some of our
competitors.  Since we do not have long-term agreements with our
subcontractors, when demand for subcontractors to assemble, test or package
products is high, our subcontractors may decide to prioritize the orders of
other customers over our orders.  Since the time required to qualify a
different subcontractor to assemble, test or package our products can be
lengthy, if we have to find a replacement subcontractor we could experience
significant delays in shipments of our products, product shortages, a decrease
in the quality of our products, or an increase in product cost. Any product
shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture,
assembly or testing of our products, which could cause our gross margin and
revenue to decline.
     
        Failure to
transition to new manufacturing process technologies could adversely affect our
operating results and gross margin.
     
        We use the
most advanced manufacturing process technology appropriate for our products that
is available from our third-party foundries. As a result, we continuously
evaluate the benefits of migrating our products to smaller geometry process
technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. We believe this
strategy will help us remain competitive.  Our current product
families are manufactured using 0.15 micron, 0.14 micron, 0.13 micron, 0.11
micron, 90 nanometer, 65 nanometer and 55 nanometer process
technologies.   Manufacturing process technologies are subject to
rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development,
which could negatively impact our operating expenses and gross
margin.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        23
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
        We have
experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes in the past
and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries
and increased expense levels. We may face similar difficulties, delays and
expenses as we continue to transition our new products to smaller geometry
processes. Moreover, we are dependent on our third-party manufacturers to invest
sufficient funds in new manufacturing techniques in order to have ample capacity
for all of their customers and to develop the techniques in a timely manner. Our
product cycles may also depend on our third-party manufacturers migrating to
smaller geometry processes successfully and in time for us to meet our customer
demands.  Some of our competitors own their manufacturing facilities
and may be able to move to a new state of the art manufacturing process more
quickly or more successfully than our manufacturing partners.  For
example, Intel has released a 45 nanometer chip for desktop computers which
it is manufacturing in its foundries.  In addition, in October 2008,
AMD and the Advanced Technology Investment Company, a technology investment
company backed by the government of Abu Dhabi, announced the establishment of a
U.S. headquartered semiconductor manufacturing company that will manufacture
AMD’s advance processors. If our suppliers fall behind our competitors in
manufacturing processes, the development and customer demand for our products
and the use of our products could be negatively impacted.  If we are
forced to use larger geometric processes in manufacturing a product than our
competition, our gross margin may be reduced.  The inability by us or
our third-party manufacturers to effectively and efficiently transition to new
manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our operating results
and our gross margin.
     
        We rely on
third-party vendors to supply software development tools to us for the
development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools
necessary to develop or enhance new or existing products.
     
        We rely on
third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation
and verification of new products or product enhancements. To bring new products
or product enhancements to market in a timely manner, or at all, we need
software development tools that are sophisticated enough or technologically
advanced enough to complete our design, simulations and
verifications.  In the past, we have experienced delays in the
introduction of products as a result of the inability of then available software
development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of
our products. In the future, the design requirements necessary to meet consumer
demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed
the capabilities of available software development
tools.  Unavailability of software development tools may result in our
missing design cycles or losing design wins, either of which could result in a
loss of market share or negatively impact our operating results.
     
        Because of
the importance of software development tools to the development and enhancement
of our products, a critical component of our product development efforts is our
partnerships with leaders in the computer-aided design industry, including
Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Synopsys, Inc. We have invested significant
resources to develop relationships with these industry leaders and have often
assisted them in the definition of their new products. We believe that forming
these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design,
simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3D
graphics, communications and networking segments and develop products that
utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. If these relationships are not
successful, we may be unable to develop new products or product enhancements in
a timely manner, which could result in a loss of market share, a decrease in
revenue or negatively impact our operating results.
     
        We sell our
products to a small number of customers and our business could suffer if we
lose any of these customers.
     
              
We have a limited number of customers and our sales are highly
concentrated.   For fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, aggregate
sales to customers in excess of 10% of our total revenue accounted for
approximately 11% of total revenue from one customer and approximately 10% and
12% of our total revenue from another customer,
respectively.   Although a small number of our other customers
represent the majority of our revenue, their end customers include a large
number of original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and system integrators
throughout the world who, in many cases, specify the graphics supplier. Our
sales process involves achieving key design wins with leading PC, OEMs and major
system builders and supporting the product design into high volume production
with key contract equipment manufacturers, or CEMs, original design
manufacturers, or ODMs, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. These design
wins in turn influence the retail and system builder channel that is serviced by
CEMs, ODMs, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. Our distribution
strategy is to work with a small number of leading independent CEMs, ODMs,
add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, and distributors, each of which has
relationships with a broad range of system builders and leading PC OEMs. If we
were to lose sales to our PC OEMs, CEMs, ODMs, add-in board manufacturers and
motherboard manufacturers and were unable to replace the lost sales with sales
to different customers, if they were to significantly reduce the number of
products they order from us, or if we were unable to collect accounts receivable
from them, our revenue may not reach or exceed the expected level in any period,
which could harm our financial condition and our results of
operations.
    
      
        
           

          
          
        
         

      
      
        24
        
          
        
      
      
         

      
    
           Any difficulties
in collecting accounts receivable, including from foreign customers, could harm
our operating results and financial condition.
       
        
Our
accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse
changes in our customers' businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the
worldwide economy.  Accounts receivable from significant customers,
those representing 10% or more of total accounts receivable aggregated
approximately 38% of our accounts receivable balance from three customers at
January 25, 2009 and approximately 12% of our accounts receivable balance from
one customer at January 27, 2008.
     
       
Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely
affect our financial condition and results of operations. These difficulties are
heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. We continue to work
directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts
receivable from them. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for
estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required
payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers
and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of
our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability
to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to
defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required
to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our
operating results. In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or
write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could
negatively impact our financial results.
    
    Risks
Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Common Stock and Other Matters
     
        We are
subject to litigation arising from alleged defects in our previous generation
MCP and GPU products, which if determined adversely to us, could harm our
business.
     
        During the
second fiscal quarter of 2009, we recorded a $196.0 million charge against cost
of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement
and other associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in
certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in
notebook systems.  The previous generation MCP and GPU products that
are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped
and sold in significant quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these MCP
and GPU products are failing in the field at higher than normal
rates.  While we have not been able to determine a root cause for
these failures, testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination,
system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing
factors. We continue to engage in discussions with our supply chain
regarding reimbursement to us for some or all of the costs we have incurred and
may incur in the future relating to the weak material set. We also continue
to seek to access our insurance coverage, which provided us with $8 million in
related reimbursement during fiscal year 2009. However, there can be no
assurance that we will recover any additional reimbursement. We continue to not
see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using NVIDIA products other than
certain notebook configurations. However, we are continuing to test and
otherwise investigate other products. There can be no assurance that we will not
discover defects in other MCP or GPU products.
     
        In September,
October and November 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were
filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU
products.  Such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management’s
time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business.
In addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from this
litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could
adversely affect our cash flow and financial results.
     
        The ongoing
civil actions or any new actions relating to the market for GPUs could adversely
affect our business.
     
        In November
2006, we received a subpoena from the San Francisco Office of the Antitrust
Division of the United States Department of Justice, or DOJ, in connection with
the DOJ's investigation into potential antitrust violations related to GPUs and
cards. In October 2008, the DOJ formally notified us that the DOJ
investigation had been closed. No specific allegations were made against NVIDIA
during the investigation. 
     
        Several
putative civil complaints were filed against us by direct and indirect
purchasers of GPUs, asserting federal antitrust claims based on alleged price
fixing, market allocation, and other alleged anti-competitive agreements between
us and ATI Technologies, ULC., or ATI, and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or AMD,
as a result of its acquisition of ATI.  The indirect purchasers’
consolidated amended complaint also asserts a variety of state law antitrust,
unfair competition and consumer protection claims on the same allegations, as
well as a common law claim for unjust enrichment.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        25
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
        In
September 2008, we executed a settlement agreement, or the Agreement, in
connection with the claims of the certified class of direct purchaser
plaintiffs.  The Agreement is subject to court approval and, if
approved, would dispose of all claims and appeals raised by the certified class
in the complaints against NVIDIA. In addition, in September 2008, we
reached a settlement agreement with the remaining individual indirect purchaser
plaintiffs that provides for a dismissal of all claims and appeals related to
the complaints raised by the individual indirect purchaser plaintiffs. This
settlement is not subject to the approval of the court. While we expect the
courts to approve the settlement agreement with the direct purchasers, there can
be no assurance that it will approved.  If the settlement agreement is
not approved we may be required to pay damages or penalties or have other
remedies imposed on us that could harm our business. In addition, additional
parties may bring claims against us relating to the potential antitrust
violations related to GPUs and cards. If additional claims are brought against
us, such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management’s time and
attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. In
addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from this litigation, a
ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our
cash flow and financial results.
     
        The matters
relating to the Board of Director’s review of our historical stock option
granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements
have resulted in litigation, which could harm our financial
results.
     
        In August
2006, we announced that the Audit Committee of our Board, with the assistance of
outside legal counsel, was conducting a review of our stock option practices
covering the time from our initial public offering in 1999, our fiscal year
2000, through June 2006. The Audit Committee reached the conclusion that
incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for
stock option grants in certain prior periods. As a result, we recorded
additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects,
related to stock option grants.  Ten derivative complaints were filed
in state and federal court pertaining to allegations relating to stock option
grants. In September 2008, we entered into Memoranda of Understanding regarding
the settlement of the stockholder derivative lawsuits.  In November
2008, the definitive settlement agreements were concurrently filed in the
Chancery Court of Delaware and the United States District Court Northern
District of California and are subject to approval by both such
courts.  The settlement agreements do not contain any admission of
wrongdoing or fault on the part of NVIDIA, our board of directors or executive
officers.  While we expect the courts to approve the settlement
agreements, there can be no assurance that they will approved.  If the
settlement agreements are not approved we may be required to pay damages or
penalties or have other remedies imposed on us that could harm our
business.
     
        We are a
party to other litigation, including patent litigation, which, if determined
adversely to us, could adversely affect our cash flow and financial
results.
     
        We are a
party to other litigation as both a defendant and as a plaintiff.  For
example, we are engaged in litigation with Intel Corporation, Rambus Corporation
and with various parties related to our acquisition of 3dfx in 2001. Please
refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K for further detail on these
lawsuits. There can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are a party
will be resolved in our favor. Any claim that is successfully decided against us
may cause us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages, and other
related fees. Regardless of whether lawsuits are resolved in our favor or if we
are the plaintiff or the defendant in the litigation, any lawsuits to which we
are a party will likely be expensive and time consuming to defend or resolve.
Such lawsuits could also harm our relationships with existing customers and
result in the diversion of management’s time and attention away from business
operations, which could harm our business. Costs of defense and any damages
resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the
litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial
results.
     
        Litigation to
defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to
enforce our intellectual property rights and the outcome of such litigation
could result in substantial costs to us.
     
        We expect
that as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases and as
competition intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims
and lawsuits may increase. We may in the future become involved in lawsuits or
other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual
property rights violations by us or by our customers that we have agreed to
indemnify them for certain claims of infringement.
     
        An
unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could
include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents,
indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been
sought, injunctive relief.
     
        In addition,
in the future, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in
order to: 
     
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              assert
      claims of infringement of our intellectual
  property;
            
          
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                enforce
      our patents;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                protect
      our trade secrets or know-how; or
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                determine
      the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of
      others.
              
            
        
      
    
     
        If we have to
initiate litigation in order to protect our intellectual property, our operating
expenses may increase which could negatively impact our operating results. Our
failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our
business.
     
        If
infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to
infringe a third parties’ patent or intellectual property, we or one of our
indemnified customers may have to seek a license to the third parties’ patent or
other intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain
licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors.
If we or one of our indemnified customers is unable to obtain a license from a
third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products,
we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue
the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products.  We may also
have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. If
these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our
business could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a
customer may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our
operating results.
      
    
      
        
        
      
      
        26
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
        Our ability
to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our
intellectual property.
     
        We rely
primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and
third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our
intellectual property in the United States and internationally. We have numerous
patents issued, allowed and pending in the United States and in foreign
jurisdictions. Our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to
our products and the technology used in connection with our products. We also
rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our
intellectual property. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our
products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in
Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same
extent as the laws of the United States. This makes the possibility of piracy of
our technology and products more likely. We continuously assess whether and
where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies
based on such factors as: 
     
    
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      commercial significance of our operations and our competitors’ operations
      in particular countries and
regions; 
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      location in which our products are
manufactured;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                our
      strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and
       
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully
      enforced in different
jurisdictions. 
              
            
        
      
       
          Our pending
patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. In
addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or
may be challenged by third parties. The enforcement of patents by others may
harm our ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop
substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our
trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our
intellectual property could harm our business.
       
          Government
investigations and inquiries from regulatory agencies could lead to enforcement
actions, fines or other penalties and could result in litigation against
us.
       
          In the past,
we have been subject to government investigations and inquiries from regulatory
agencies such as the DOJ and the SEC.  We may be subject to government
investigations and receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the
future, which may lead to enforcement actions, fines or other
penalties.
       
          In addition,
litigation has often been brought against a company in connection with the
announcement of a government investigation or inquiry from a regulatory
agency.  For example, following the announcement of the DOJ
investigation, several putative civil complaints were filed against us. In
addition, following our Audit Committee’s investigation and the SEC’s
investigation concerning our historical stock option granting practices, ten
derivative complaints were filed in state and federal court pertaining to
allegations relating to stock option grants.  Please refer to Note 12
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this
Form 10-K for further information regarding these lawsuits. Such lawsuits could
result in the diversion of management’s time and attention away from business
operations, which could harm our business. In addition, the costs of defense and
any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of
the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial
results.
    
     
        We are
subject to the risks of owning real property.
     
        In fiscal
year 2009, we used approximately $183.8 million of our cash to purchase real
property in Santa Clara, California that includes approximately 25 acres of land
and ten commercial buildings.  We also own real property in China and
India.  We have limited experience in the ownership and management of
real property and are subject to the risks of owning real property,
including:
     
    
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with
      fixing any environmental
problems; 
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                adverse
      changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes,
      changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other
      factors;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      risk of loss if we decide to sell and are not able to recover all
      capitalized costs;
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                increased
      cash commitments for the possible construction of a campus;
       
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning,
      seismic and other legal or regulatory
  requirements; 
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                increased
      operating expenses for the buildings or the property or
      both; 
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                possible
      disputes with third parties, such as neighboring owners or others, related
      to the buildings or the property or both;
and
              
            
        
      
      
        
            
              
                ·  
              
              
                the
      risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or
      uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a
      result of earthquakes, floods and or other natural
    disasters.
              
            
        
      
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          27
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
          Expensing
employee equity compensation adversely affects our operating results and could
also adversely affect our competitive position.
    
     
        Since
inception, we have used equity through our stock option plans and our employee
stock purchase program as a fundamental component of our compensation packages.
We believe that these programs directly motivate our employees and, through the
use of vesting, encourage our employees to remain with us. 
     
    
          In December
2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), or
SFAS No. 123(R), Share-based
Payment, which requires the measurement and recognition of
compensation expense for all stock-based compensation payments.  SFAS No.
123(R) requires that we record compensation expense for stock options and our
employee stock purchase plan using the fair value of those awards.
 Stock-based compensation expense resulting from our compliance with SFAS
No. 123(R), was $162.7 million, $133.4 million and $116.7 million for fiscal
years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which negatively impacted our operating
results.  Additionally, on February 11, 2009, we announced that our
Board of Directors approved a cash tender offer for certain employee stock
options. The tender offer commenced on February 11, 2009 and expired at 12:00
midnight (Pacific Time) on March 11, 2009. As of January 25, 2009, there were
approximately 33.1 million options eligible to participate in the tender offer.
If all these options were tendered and accepted in the offer, the aggregate cash
purchase price for these options would be approximately $92.0 million. As a
result of the tender offer, we may incur a non-recurring charge of up to
approximately $150.0 million if all of the unvested eligible options are
tendered. This charge would be reflected in our financial results for the first
fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2010 and represents stock-based compensation
expense, consisting of the remaining unamortized stock-based compensation
expense associated with the unvested portion of the eligible options tendered in
the offer, stock-based compensation expense resulting from amounts paid in
excess of the fair value of the underlying options, if any, plus associated
payroll taxes and professional fees. We are currently tallying information on
the number of options tendered under the offer to determine the actual aggregate
cash to be paid in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible options and the
non-recurring charge to be incurred pertaining to the unvested eligible options
that have been tendered. We believe that SFAS No. 123(R) will continue to
negatively impact our operating results.
       
    
        To the extent
that SFAS No. 123(R) makes it more expensive to grant stock options or to
continue to have an employee stock purchase program, we may decide to incur
increased cash compensation costs. In addition, actions that we may take to
reduce stock-based compensation expense that may be more severe than any actions
our competitors may implement and may make it difficult to attract retain and
motivate employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as
well as our business and operating results.
     
        We may be
required to record a charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable
intangible assets become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating
results.
     
        Under
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our
amortizable intangible assets and goodwill for impairment when events or changes
in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is
tested for impairment at least annually. The carrying value of our goodwill or
amortizable assets may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in
stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows
and slower growth rates in our industry or in any of our business units. For
example, during the twelve months ended January 25, 2009, our market
capitalization declined from approximately $14 billion to approximately $4
billion. Estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term
financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the
near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which
could impact future estimates. For example, if one of our business units does
not meet its near-term and longer-term forecasts, the goodwill assigned to the
business unit could be impaired. We may be required to record a charge to
earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of
our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist, which may
negatively impact our results of operations.
     
        Our stock
price continues to be volatile and investors may suffer losses.
     
        Our stock has
at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations
between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us and
our competitors, or uncertainty about current global economic conditions. The
stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume
fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in
ways that may have been unrelated to these companies’ operating
performance.
     
        In the past,
securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company
following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. For
example, following our announcement in July 2008 that we would take a charge
against cost of revenue to cover anticipated costs and expenses arising from a
weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation
MCP and GPU products and that we were revising financial guidance for our second
fiscal quarter of 2009, the trading price of our common stock
declined.  In September, October and November 2008, several putative
class action lawsuits were filed against us relating to this
announcement.  Please refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K for further
information regarding these lawsuits. Due to changes in the potential
volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in
the future. Such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management’s time and
attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. In
addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a
ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our
cash flow and financial results. 
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        28
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
        Our operating
results may be adversely affected if we are subject to unexpected tax
liabilities.
     
        We are
subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities both in the United States
and throughout the world. Tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we
operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for our
income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate
tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are
reasonable, any of the below could cause our effective tax rate to be materially
different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and
accruals:
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and
      taxed;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              adjustments
      to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              changes
      in available tax credits;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              changes
      in share-based compensation
expense;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              changes
      in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the United States or
      abroad or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance
      related to uncertain transactions and calculations where the tax treatment
      was previously uncertain; and
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax
      authorities.
            
          
      
    
     
        Should
additional taxes be assessed as a result of any of the above, our operating
results could be adversely affected. In addition, our future effective tax rate
could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with
differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or changes in the
interpretation of tax laws.
     
        Our failure
to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range
of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory,
sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities.
     
        We are
subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations
governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain
substances in electronic products and making producers of those products
financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of
those products. For example, we are subject to the European Union Directive on
Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS Directive, that restricts
the use of a number of substances, including lead, and other hazardous
substances in electrical and electronic equipment in the market in the European
Union.    We could face significant costs and liabilities in
connection with the European Union Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic
Equipment, or WEEE. The WEEE directs members of the European Union to enact
laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of
electric and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the
collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally responsible disposal of
certain products sold into the market after August 15, 2005.
     
        It is
possible that unanticipated supply shortages, delays or excess non-compliant
inventory may occur as a result of the RoHS Directive, WEEE, and other
domestic or international environmental regulations. Failure to comply with any
applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences
including costs, fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales
limitations, criminal and civil liabilities and could impact our ability to
conduct business in the countries or states that have adopted these types of
regulations.
     
        While we believe that
we have adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we or our
independent registered public accounting firm determines that we do not, our
reputation may be adversely affected and our stock price may
decline. 
     
        Section 404 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our
independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of our
internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an
ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing
necessary to comply with these requirements. However, the manner in which
companies and their independent public accounting firms apply these requirements
and test companies’ internal controls remains subject to some judgment. To date,
we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, increased expense and to
devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. Despite
our efforts, if we identify a material weakness in our internal controls, there
can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in
a timely manner, or that we will be able to maintain all of the controls
necessary to determine that our internal control over financial reporting is
effective. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial
officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our
internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under
Section 404, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and could
cause a decline in the market price of our stock.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        29
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
        Changes in financial
accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our
reported results of operations.
     
        We prepare
our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States.  These principles are
constantly subject to review and interpretation by the SEC and various bodies
formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in
these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may
even retroactively affect previously reported transactions.
     
        Provisions in our
certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with Microsoft could
delay or prevent a change in control.  
     
        Our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it
more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting
stock. These provisions include the following:
     
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      ability of our Board to create and issue preferred stock without prior
      stockholder approval; 
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      prohibition of stockholder action by written
  consent;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              a
      classified Board; and
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·  
            
            
              advance
      notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder
      proposals.
            
          
      
    
     
        On March 5,
2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft in which we agreed to develop
and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to Microsoft and its
licensees for use in the Xbox. Under the agreement, if an individual or
corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of
the outstanding shares of our common stock, Microsoft may have first and last
rights of refusal to purchase the stock. The Microsoft provision and the other
factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of
NVIDIA.
     
    ITEM 1B