. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners - We are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business.”Executive Officers of the RegistrantThe following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and their positions as of March 7, 2014:Name Age PositionJen-Hsun Huang 51 President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorColette M. Kress 46 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerAjay K. Puri 59 Executive Vice President, Worldwide SalesDavid M. Shannon 58 Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and SecretaryDebora Shoquist 59 Executive Vice President, Operations Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in April 1993 and has served as its President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since its inception. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions, most recently as Director of Coreware, the business unit responsible for LSI's “system-on-chip” strategy. From 1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford University.Colette M. Kress joined NVIDIA in September 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Kress most recently served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Business Technology and Operations Finance organization at Cisco Systems, Inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. At Cisco, Ms. Kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for all business segments, engineering and operations. From 1997 to 2010 Ms. Kress held a variety of positions at Microsoft Corporation, a software company, including, beginning in 2006, Chief Financial Officer of the Server and Tools division, where Ms. Kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the division. Prior to joining Microsoft, Ms. Kress spent eight years at Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of finance positions. Ms. Kress holds a B.S. degree in Finance from University of Arizona and an M.B.A. degree from Southern Methodist University. 11Table of ContentsAjay K. Puri joined NVIDIA in December 2005 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and became Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales in January 2009. Prior to NVIDIA, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a computing systems company. Mr. Puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, an information technology company, Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., a management and technology consulting company, and Texas Instruments. Mr. Puri holds a B.S.E.E. degree from the University of Minnesota, an M.S.E.E. degree from the California Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School. David M. Shannon serves as Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary of NVIDIA.  In this role, he is responsible for NVIDIA’s legal and human resources functions, as well as intellectual property licensing.  Mr. Shannon joined NVIDIA in August 2002 as Vice President and General Counsel. Mr. Shannon became Secretary of NVIDIA in April 2005, a Senior Vice President in December 2005 and an Executive Vice President in January 2009.  In January 2013, Mr. Shannon also became the head of Human Resources.  Mr. Shannon was promoted to the role of Chief Administrative Officer in January 2014.  From 1993 to 2002, Mr. Shannon held various counsel positions at Intel, most recently the position of Vice President and Assistant General Counsel. Mr. Shannon also practiced for eight years in the law firm of Gibson Dunn and Crutcher, focusing on complex commercial and high-technology related litigation. Mr. Shannon holds B.A. and J.D. degrees from Pepperdine University. Debora Shoquist joined NVIDIA in September 2007 as Senior Vice President of Operations and became Executive Vice President of Operations in January 2009.  From 2004 to 2007, Ms. Shoquist served as Executive Vice President of Operations at JDS Uniphase Corporation, a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. From 2002 to 2004, Ms. Shoquist served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Electro-Optics business at Coherent, Inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. Ms. Shoquist’s experience includes her role at Quantum Corporation, a data protection company, as the President of the Personal Computer Hard Disk Drive Division. Ms. Shoquist’s experience also includes senior roles at Hewlett-Packard. Ms. Shoquist holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Kansas State University and a B.S. degree in Biology from Santa Clara University.Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on or through our web site, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Our web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.12Table of ContentsITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORSIn evaluating NVIDIA and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. Additionally, any one of the following risks could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and PartnersIf we are unable to compete in the markets for our products, our financial results will be adversely impacted.The market for our products is extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings, industry standards continue to evolve and others realize the market potential of mobile and consumer products and services.     We expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share. Furthermore, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do.  In order to effectively compete we may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. In order to remain competitive and meet the demands of the markets we serve, we expect to devote a substantial portion of our resources to research and development. Our ability to compete will depend on, among other factors, our ability to:•continue to keep pace with technological developments;•develop and introduce new products, services, technologies and enhancements on a timely basis;•transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries;•obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials; and•succeed in significant foreign markets, such as China and India.If we are unable to compete in our current or new markets, demand for our products could decrease which could cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer.      If and to the extent we offer products in new markets, we may face competition from existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete.  We expect substantial competition from both Intel and AMD's, strategy of selling platform solutions, including integrating a CPU and a GPU on the same chip or same package, as evidenced by Intel's CPUs with integrated graphics and AMD's APU product.  As AMD and Intel continue to pursue platform solutions and integrated CPUs, we may not be able to successfully compete and our business could be negatively impacted. Despite the use of these integrated CPUs, personal computer, or PC, builders and consumers have continued to embrace discrete GPUs to provide higher performance. If integrated CPUs offer a more compelling value proposition in the future, PC builders and consumers may move away from the use of discrete GPUs, which could adversely affect our business and cause our financial results to decline.We are implementing a business strategy to license our GPU cores and visual computing patent portfolio to device manufacturers. Although we have engaged in licensing in the past, we are now engaging a broader market with new and existing competitors who may be able to adapt more quickly to customer requirements and emerging technologies.  We cannot be assured of the extent of the demand for licenses to our GPU cores or other elements of our visual computing patent portfolio, or that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors who may have stronger positions in these new markets.  13Table of ContentsOur business results could be adversely affected if the identification and development of new products is delayed or unsuccessful.In order to maintain or improve our financial results, we will need to continue to identify and develop new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner. The process of developing new products and services and enhancing existing products and services is highly complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technology trends could adversely affect our business. We must make multi-year investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our new products and technologies.  It is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues.   Even if we introduce new and enhanced products to the market, we may not be able to achieve consumer and/or market acceptance of them in a timely manner.Our ability to successfully develop and deliver new products will depend on various factors, including our ability to:•effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets;•timely complete and introduce new products and technologies;•transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries; and•obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials.We occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience delays in the future. In addition, in the past, we have faced challenges in managing product transitions from older to newer products resulting in obsolete inventory. Our failure to successfully develop and introduce new products and technologies or identify new uses for existing or future products could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced demand for our products or loss of market share, any of which could harm our competitive position and cause our revenue, gross margin and overall financial results to suffer.If we are unable to achieve consumer and market acceptance and design wins for our products and technologies, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed.The success of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to achieve consumer and market acceptance of our new products and enhancements to our existing products and identify and enter new markets, such as cloud-based computing appliances, servers, automotive technology, smartphones, tablets, video game consoles, and other similar consumer electronic devices.  The markets for our products and technologies are characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in pricing of dynamic random-access memory devices and other changes in the total system cost of add-in boards, or AIBs, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. Broad consumer and market acceptance is difficult to achieve and such consumer and market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition and frequent new technology and product introductions.  Our success in achieving consumer and market acceptance will depend in part on our ability to cultivate new industry relationships and improve the functionality of our products as the number of internet-connected devices increases. If we do not successfully achieve or maintain consumer and market acceptance for our products and enhancements or identify and enter new markets, our ability to compete and maintain or increase revenues will suffer.We believe achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen for hardware components or subassemblies designed by original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and AIB and motherboard manufacturers, is an integral part of our future success. Our OEM, ODM, and AIB and motherboard manufacturers' customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. Accordingly, when our customers are making their design decisions, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products in order to be included in our customers' new system configurations. This requires that we:•anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand;•incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers;14Table of Contents•price our products competitively; and•introduce products to the market within our customers' limited design cycles.If OEMs, ODMs, and AIB and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems until at least the next design configuration. Our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and be compliant with evolving industry standards. Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers.  If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, we may not be designed into our customers' product designs.  However, to be compliant with changes to industry standards, we may have to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products which could negatively impact our gross margin or operating results. If we are unable to achieve new design wins for existing or new customers, we may lose market share and our operating results would be negatively impacted.We depend on foundries to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies or otherwise satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business.We do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. Instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited, or TSMC, to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. A substantial portion of our wafers are supplied by TSMC. The foundries, which have limited capacity, also manufacture products for other semiconductor companies, including some of our competitors.  Because we do not have long-term commitment contracts with any of these foundries, they do not have an obligation to provide us with any set pricing or minimum quantity of product at any time except as may be provided in a specific purchase order.   Most of our products are only manufactured by one foundry at a time.  In times of high demand, the foundries could choose to prioritize their capacity for other companies, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, or increase the prices that they charge us.  If we are unable to meet customer demand due to reduced or eliminated deliveries or have to increase the prices of our products, we could lose sales to customers, which would negatively impact our revenue and our reputation. Furthermore, our third-party foundries may not be able to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis.  If our third-party foundries experience manufacturing inefficiencies, we may fail to achieve acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays.  For example, due to capacity constraints at TSMC of our 28 nanometer Kepler GPUs in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we were unable to fulfill customer demand for our high-end desktop GPU products, and as our sales mix shifted to our mainstream desktop GPU products, revenue and gross margins for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 were negatively impacted compared to the prior quarter.Because the lead-time needed to establish strategic relationships with new manufacturing partners and achieve initial production could be over a year, we do not have a readily available alternative source of supply for our products. In addition, the time and effort to qualify a new foundry would result in additional expense and diversion of resources, and could result in lost sales, any of which would negatively impact our financial results. We believe that long-term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with the third-party manufacturers we use to ensure adequate product supply and competitive pricing to respond to customer demand. Failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact our financial results and damage our reputation.Manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. Low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure.  We do not know a yield problem exists until our design is manufactured.  When a yield issue is identified, the product is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process. Resolution of yield problems requires cooperation by, and communication between, us and the manufacturer. Because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity, decreases in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers.  Lower than expected yields could potentially harm customer relationships, our reputation and our financial results.   15Table of ContentsA decline in demand in certain end-user markets could decrease the demand for our products and harm our results of operations. Our customer base includes companies in a wide range of end-user markets, but we generate a significant amount of revenue from sales to consumers of communications- and PC-related products. Within these end-user markets, a large portion of our revenue is generated from sales to consumers in the smartphone, tablet and PC markets, including professional workstations.  Decline in one or several of these end-user markets could harm demand for our products and our results of operations and financial condition. These declines could be large and sudden. Because smartphone, tablet and PC manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they incorrectly forecast product transitions. In these cases, these manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until their excess inventory has been absorbed, which would have a negative impact on our financial results.We sell our products to a limited number of customers and our business could suffer if we lose any of these customers.We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue, was approximately 21% of our total revenue from two customers in fiscal year 2014 and approximately 13% and 11% of our total revenue from one customer in fiscal years 2013 and 2012, respectively. Approximately 23% of our accounts receivable balance was from one customer as of January 26, 2014, and approximately 40% of our accounts receivable balance was from three customers as of January 27, 2013.  We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to certain customers.  In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results and as a result of the tightening of the credit markets, we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient.  Revenue from our largest customer has fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate dramatically in the future. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because:•substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty;•our customers may develop their own solutions;•our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or•our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products.The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations and any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could harm our operating results and financial condition.16Table of ContentsIf we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business and profitability could be harmed.To achieve our business objectives, it may be necessary from time to time for us to expand or contract our operations. In the future, we may not be able to scale our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. In that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expected, the rate of increase in our costs and operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if such demand does not materialize at the pace which we expect, we may be required to scale down our business through expense and headcount reductions as well as facility consolidations or closures that could result in restructuring charges that would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any decrease in customer demand. If customer demand does not increase as anticipated, our profitability could be adversely affected due to our higher expense levels.Our past growth has placed, and any future long-term growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce.  All of these endeavors require substantial management effort. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our costs and expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would harm our results of operations.Our revenue may fluctuate while a majority of our operating expenses are a factor of multi-year investments ahead of when revenue is received, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Our operating expenses are primarily related to multi-year research and development investments ahead of the revenue received from the products which are produced.  Our research and development expenses totaled $1.34 billion, $1.15 billion, and $1.00 billion in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.Any one or more of the risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other factors could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Similarly, the results of any quarterly or full fiscal year period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a subsequent quarter or a full fiscal year. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations.Because our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, our failure to forecast changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross margin.We are focused on improving our gross margin. Our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including: •the mix of our products sold;•average selling prices;•introduction of new products;•product transitions;•sales discounts;•unexpected pricing actions by our competitors;17Table of Contents•the cost of product components; and•the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products.If we do not correctly forecast the impact of any of the relevant factors on our business, there may not be any actions we can take or we may not be able to take any possible actions in time to counteract any negative impact on our gross margin.   In addition, if we are unable to meet our gross margin target for any period or the target set by analysts, the trading price of our common stock may decline. Our failure to estimate customer demand properly could adversely affect our financial results.We manufacture our products based on forecasts of customer demand in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers.  As a result, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur or may build inventory anticipating demand for a product that does not materialize. In forecasting demand, we make multiple assumptions any of which may prove to be incorrect. Situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include:•changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in the semiconductor industry and/or overall economy;•changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices;•if there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products;•if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements;•if we fail to estimate customer demand properly for our older products as our newer products are introduced; or•if our competition were to take unexpected competitive pricing actions.Any inability to sell products to which we have devoted resources could harm our business. In addition, cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margin and restrict our ability to fund operations. Additionally, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. We could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding inventory write-downs and/or a reduction in average selling prices if growth slows or does not materialize, or if we incorrectly forecast product demand, which could negatively impact our financial results.Conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our third-party manufacturing partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production for us meaning that we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill our customers' orders on a timely basis. Even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost effective or timely manner. Inability to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, could damage our customer relationships, result in lost revenue, cause a loss in market share, impact our customer relationships or damage our reputation, any of which could adversely impact our business.18Table of ContentsWe may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products.We have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products and business. We may enter into future acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, in order to complement or expand our current businesses or enter into a new business market. Negotiations associated with an acquisition or strategic investment could divert management's attention and other company resources. Any of the following risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results:•difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business;•difficulty in operating in a new or multiple new locations;•disruption of our ongoing businesses or the ongoing business of the company we invest in or acquire;•difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction;•difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;•difficulty integrating the target's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems;•diversion of capital and other resources;•assumption of liabilities;•incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results;•incurring impairment charges related to goodwill and other purchased intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions or investments;•diversion of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments;•potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial contingencies, among other things;•difficulties in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger positions;•potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions or investments; and•impairment of relationships with employees, vendors and customers, or the loss of any of our key employees, vendors or customers or our target's key employees, vendors or customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment.19Table of ContentsWe may be required to record a charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results.Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, we review our amortizable intangible assets and goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. The carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable assets from acquisitions may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry or in any of our reporting units. Estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates.  For example, in the most recent impairment test of our Tegra Processor reporting unit, the fair value of the reporting unit only exceeded its carrying value by 17%.  If the future operating results of the Tegra Processor reporting unit are significantly lower than our estimates, the goodwill assigned to Tegra Processor could be impaired, which would negatively impact our results of operations.System security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products.  The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and third party business. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our partners or customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our partners and customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. For example, in July 2012, unauthorized third parties gained access to certain user information on our online forums.  We have strengthened security in an effort to minimize future attacks.  However, hackers may continue to target our security controls in the future, and we cannot guarantee that our security measures will be able to prevent future breaches of our website and/or attacks on our products.Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions of service or produce errors in connection with systemic failures, systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees which could negatively impact our business.Our future success and ability to compete are substantially dependent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified key personnel.  The market for key employees in the technology industry can be competitive.  None of our key employees is bound by an employment agreement, meaning our relationships with all of our key employees are at will.  The loss of the services of any of our key employees could delay our product development efforts, harm our ability to sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business.20Table of ContentsWe are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, which reduces our control over our product delivery schedule, product quantity or product quality.Our products are assembled, tested and packaged by independent subcontractors, such as Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., ChipPAC, JSI Logistics, Ltd., King Yuan Electronics Co. and Siliconware Precision Industries Co. Ltd. As a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules, product quantity, or product quality.  All of these subcontractors assemble, test and package products for other companies, including some of our competitors.  Because we do not have long-term agreements with our subcontractors, when demand for subcontractors to assemble, test or package products is high, our subcontractors may decide to prioritize the orders of other customers over our orders.  Because the time required to qualify a different subcontractor to assemble, test or package our products can be lengthy, if we have to find a replacement subcontractor we could experience significant delays in shipments of our products, product shortages, a decrease in the quality of our products, or an increase in product cost. Any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products, which could cause our gross margin to decline. We rely on third-party vendors to supply software development tools to us for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop or enhance new or existing products.We rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. To bring new products or product enhancements to market in a timely manner, or at all, we need software development tools that are sophisticated enough or technologically advanced enough to complete our design, simulations and verifications.  In the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. In the future, the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools.  Unavailability of software development tools may result in our missing design cycles or losing design wins, either of which could result in a loss of market share or negatively impact our operating results.Because of the importance of software development tools to the development and enhancement of our products, a critical component of our product development efforts is our partnerships with leaders in the computer-aided design industry, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Synopsys, Inc. We have invested significant resources to develop relationships with these industry leaders and have often assisted them in the development of their new products. We believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3D graphics, communications and networking segments and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. If these relationships are not successful, we may be unable to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner, which could result in a loss of market share, a decrease in revenue or a negative impact on our operating results. If our products contain significant defects, our financial results could be negatively impacted, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market share.Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue.  Such efforts could divert our engineers' attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including our customers' costs to repair or replace products in the field. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, could damage our reputation, could result in the shifting of business to our competitors and could result in litigation against us. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results.      21Table of ContentsOur business is cyclical in nature and has experienced severe downturns that have harmed, and may in the future harm, our business and financial results.Our business is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has been adversely affected by many factors, including the global downturn that started in the second half of 2008, ongoing efforts by our customers to reduce their spending, diminished product demand, increased inventory levels, lower average selling prices, uncertainty regarding long-term growth rates and underlying financial health and increased competition. These factors could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.  If our actions to reduce our operating expenses to sufficiently offset these factors when they occur are unsuccessful, our operating results will suffer.We are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business.We conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the United States.  Our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the United States and other Americas.  We generated 75%, 74% and 78% of our revenue for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, from sales to customers outside the United States and other Americas.   The manufacture, assembly, test and packaging of our products outside of the United States, operation of offices outside of the United States, and sales to customers internationally subjects us to a number of risks, including:•international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business;•unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements;  •complying with a variety of foreign laws;•differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices;•local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anticorruption laws and regulations;•inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions;•exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; •financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•imposition of additional taxes and penalties;•increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits; and•other factors beyond our control such as terrorism, cyber attack, civil unrest, war and diseases.If sales to any of our customers outside of the United States and other Americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. Our international operations are subject to many of the above listed risks. Difficulties with our international operations, including finding appropriate staffing and office space, may divert management's attention and other resources, any of which could negatively impact our operating results.22Table of ContentsLegal and regulatory requirements differ among jurisdictions worldwide. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to ensure compliance with foreign laws, many of these laws and regulations are ambiguous and are often interpreted and enforced in unpredictable ways.The economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in Asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international sales to date have been denominated in United States dollars. Accordingly, an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. We anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities.Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. In addition, a majority of our principal IT data centers are located in California, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in this geographical area. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including Taiwan, China and Korea. Our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. However, in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. Our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the capital markets.Our cash equivalent and marketable securities portfolio as of January 26, 2014 consisted of cash and cash equivalents, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, asset-backed securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines, designed to preserve principal, minimize risk, and monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk.  The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes, and a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, asset-backed securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies.Should financial market conditions worsen in the future, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from market liquidity and credit concerns. In addition, any deterioration of the capital markets could cause our other income and expense to vary from expectations. As of January 26, 2014, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio, and although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, or credit availability, and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Common Stock and Other Matters Our common stock price has at times experienced substantial price volatility and, as a result, investors may suffer losses.Our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us and our competitors, or uncertainty about current global economic conditions. The stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance.23Table of ContentsIn the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in the volatility of our stock price, we have been in the past and may be in the future the target of securities litigation. Such lawsuits generally result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. In addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. We are subject to litigation which, if determined adversely to us, could harm our business. We are engaged in litigation with parties related to our acquisition of 3dfx in 2001. In addition, in September, October and November 2008, several putative securities class action lawsuits were filed against us for alleged defects in our previous generation MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on these lawsuits.There can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are a party will be resolved in our favor.  Any claim that is successfully decided against us may cause us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages, and other related fees or prevent us from selling or importing certain of our products. Regardless of whether lawsuits are resolved in our favor or if we are the plaintiff or the defendant in the litigation, any lawsuits to which we are a party will likely be expensive and time consuming to defend or resolve. Such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business.  Such lawsuits could also harm our relationships with existing customers and result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. Costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results.Actions to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, such as litigation to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to enforce our intellectual property rights, could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we fail to take such actions or are unsuccessful in doing so.We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the United States and internationally. We have numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. We also rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. This makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: •the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and regions;•the location in which our products are manufactured;•our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and•the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions.Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. In addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged, invalidated, infringed, circumvented or misappropriated by third parties. We expect that as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases and as competition intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits may increase. We may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement.  Third parties may also claim that our employees have misappropriated or divulged their former employers’ trade secrets or confidential information.An unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief.24Table of ContentsIn addition, in the future, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: •assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property;•enforce our patents;•protect our trade secrets or know-how; or•determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others.If we have to initiate litigation in order to protect our intellectual property, our operating expenses may increase which could negatively impact our operating results. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business.If infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third parties' patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third parties' patent or other intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. If we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products.  We may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. Changes in United States tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could adversely impact our business. Currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the United States, and a significant portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the United States.  United States income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-United States subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries.  Throughout the period of President Obama's administration, the White House has proposed various international tax measures, some of which, if enacted into law, would substantially reduce our ability to defer United States taxes on such indefinitely reinvested non-United States earnings, eliminate certain tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the United States and/or otherwise cause the total tax cost of U.S. multinational corporations to increase. If these or similar proposals are constituted into legislation in the current or future year(s), they could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we are subject to unexpected tax liabilities. We are subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities both in the United States and throughout the world. Tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for our income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, any of the below could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals:•the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;•adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;•changes in available tax credits;•changes in stock-based compensation expense;•changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the United States or abroad or the issuance of  new interpretative accounting guidance related to transactions and calculations where the tax  treatment was previously uncertain; and•the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities.  25Table of ContentsShould additional taxes be assessed as a result of any of the above, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or changes in the interpretation of tax laws.We are subject to the risks of owning real property.During fiscal year 2009, we purchased real property in Santa Clara, California that includes approximately 36 acres of land and twelve commercial buildings and eventually expect to break ground on a new building for a corporate headquarters campus in Santa Clara.  We also own real property in India. We have limited experience in the ownership and management of real property and are subject to the risks of owning real property, including:•the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with mitigating any environmental problems;•adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the market in which the property is located, or other factors;•the risk of loss if we decide to sell and are not able to recover all capitalized costs;•increased cash commitments for the planned construction of our Santa Clara campus;•the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements;•increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property or both;•possible disputes with third parties, such as neighboring owners or others, related to the buildings or the  property or both; and•the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and or other natural disasters.Expensing employee equity compensation adversely affects our operating results and could also adversely affect our competitive position.Since inception, we have used equity through our equity incentive plans and our employee stock purchase program as a fundamental component of our compensation packages. We believe that these programs directly motivate our employees and, through the use of vesting, encourage our employees to remain with us. We record compensation expense for stock options, restricted stock units and our employee stock purchase plan using the fair value of those awards in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Stock-based compensation expense was $136.3 million, $136.7 million and $136.4 million for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to on-going vesting of equity awards, which negatively impacted our operating results.  To the extent that expensing employee equity compensation makes it more expensive to grant stock options and restricted stock units or to continue to have an employee stock purchase program, we may decide to incur increased cash compensation costs. In addition, actions that we may take to reduce stock-based compensation expense that may be more severe than any actions our competitors may implement and may make it difficult to attract retain and motivate employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our business and operating results.   26Table of ContentsWe have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations.       In December 2013, we issued $1.5 billion of 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018, or 1.00% Notes.  Our substantial indebtedness may: •limit our ability to use our cash flow or borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes;  •make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and•increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.The exercise of warrants issued to Goldman, Sachs & Co., or Goldman, concurrently with our 1.00% Notes would, and the conversion of our 1.00% Notes could, dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders.The warrants issued concurrently with our 1.00% Notes shall be deemed to     be automatically exercised on certain dates between March 2019 and June 2019, unless Goldman notifies us otherwise. Any issuance by us of additional shares to Goldman upon exercise of the warrants will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Moreover, the conversion of our 1.00% Notes may dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders and could have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of the 1.00% Notes.  Any sales in the public market by Goldman of our common stock upon exercise of the warrants or sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the 1.00% Notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.Our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities.We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products.  Although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. If we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at, under or emanating from our facilities or other environmental or natural resource damage.Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. For example, the European Union and China are two among a growing number of jurisdictions that have enacted in recent years restrictions on the use of lead, among other chemicals, in electronic products. These regulations affect semiconductor packaging. There is a risk that the cost, quality and manufacturing yields of lead-free products may be less favorable compared to lead-based products or that the transition to lead-free products may produce sudden changes in demand, which may result in excess inventory.27Table of ContentsThere is also a movement to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from the areas of conflict. Recent U.S. legislation includes SEC disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, for which the first report is due on May 31, 2014 for the 2013 calendar year. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any “conflict” minerals in our products.  Also, because our supply chain is complex, we may be unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products, resulting in reputational challenges with our customers and stockholders. Some customers may require that all of our products are certified to be conflict-free; if we cannot satisfy these customers, they may choose a competitor's products.  Although we expect to be able to file the required report on time, we are dependent upon the information provided by our many suppliers.  To the extent that the information we receive from our suppliers is inaccurate or inadequate or our processes in obtaining such information do not fulfill the SEC’s diligence requirements, we could also face SEC enforcement risks.Future environmental legal requirements may become more stringent or costly and our compliance costs and potential liabilities arising from past and future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances may harm our business and our reputation.While we believe that we have adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm determines that we do not, our reputation may be adversely affected and our stock price may decline.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. However, the manner in which companies and their independent public accounting firms apply these requirements and test companies' internal controls remains subject to some judgment. To date, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. Despite our efforts, if we identify a material weakness in our internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in a timely manner, or that we will be able to maintain all of the controls necessary to determine that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. In the event that our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock.   Changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported results of operations.We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP.  These principles are constantly subject to review and interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles.  A change in these principles, or the interpretation of them, can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions.  Additionally, changes in existing accounting rules, such as the possible upcoming changes to revenue recognition and lease accounting standards, or changes in practices, such as changes to auditing standards promulgated by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business.Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with Microsoft Corporation could delay or prevent a change in control. Our status as a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions include the following:•the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval;•the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent;28Table of Contents•a classified Board of Directors, which will become fully declassified from and after our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; •advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals;•the ability of our Board of Directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without stockholder approval;•a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;•the elimination of the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and•the ability of our Board of Directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws.On March 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to Microsoft and its licensees for use in the Xbox. Under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. The Microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA.  These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire.ITEM 1B