ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



The factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this
report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and
adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.


The Company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail economies in
various parts of the world.


The Company’s business depends on the strength of the retail economies in various parts of the
world, primarily in North America and to a lesser extent Europe, Central and South America and
Asia. These retail economies are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the
condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions and
specific events such as natural disasters and terrorist attacks. In recent years, the retail
industry in the U.S. and, increasingly, elsewhere has been characterized by intense competition and
consolidation among retailers. Because such competition, particularly in weak retail economies,
can cause retailers to struggle or fail, the Company must continuously monitor, and adapt to
changes in, the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of its customers.

The Company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers.



The Company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial
products, many of which are large and well established. The Company’s principal customers are
large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office
superstores, and commercial distributors. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers,
together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant
multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. Current trends among
retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new
products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with
shorter lead times. Other trends are for retailers to import products directly from foreign
sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with
products of the Company.


- 10 -




Table of Contents



The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in
which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use,
resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the
ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in
customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers.
The Company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major retailer
customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. The
resulting risks to the Company include possible loss of sales, reduced profitability and limited
ability to recover cost increases through price increases.


To compete successfully, the Company must develop and commercialize a continuing stream of
innovative new products that create consumer demand.


The Company’s long-term success in this competitive retail environment depends on its ability to
develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create consumer
demand. The Company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new
products that compete with the Company’s products. The Company’s strategy includes increased
investment in new product development and increased focus on innovation. There are, nevertheless,
numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing innovative new
products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not deliver expected growth results.


To compete successfully, the Company must develop and maintain big, consumer-meaningful brands.


The Company’s competitive success also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain
consumer-meaningful brands so that the Company’s retailer customers will need the Company’s
products to meet consumer demand, and big brands to provide the Company with economies of scale.
The development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand building
and marketing initiatives. While the Company is substantially increasing its expenditures for
advertising and other brand building and marketing initiatives, the increased investment may not
deliver the anticipated results.


Price increases in raw materials could harm the Company’s financial results.


The Company purchases some raw materials, including resin, glass, corrugate, steel, gold, zinc,
brass and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressure. The Company
attempts to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs,
including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts and sales price
adjustments. Where practical, the Company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process.
Raw material price increases may offset productivity gains and could materially impact the
Company’s financial results.


The Company’s success depends on its ability to continuously improve productivity and streamline
operations.


The Company’s success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing
efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline non-strategic SG&A expenses in order to
produce products at a best-cost position and free up money for investment in innovation and brand
building. Project Acceleration includes the closure of approximately one-third of the Company’s 64
manufacturing facilities (adjusted for the divestiture of Little Tikes and Home Décor Europe)
between the periods January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2009. In addition, the Company is exploring
ways to best leverage its functional capabilities such as Human Resources, Information Technology,
Customer Service, Supply Chain and Finance in order to improve efficiency and reduce costs. The
Company runs the risk that Project Acceleration and other corporate initiatives aimed at
streamlining and cost reduction may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly
to implement than expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated, or that other major
productivity and streamlining programs may be required after such projects are completed. In
addition, disruptions in the Company’s ability to supply products on a timely basis, which may be
incidental to any problems in the execution of Project Acceleration, could adversely affect the
Company’s future results.


The Company’s ability to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses is an
important factor in the Company’s future growth.


- 11 -




Table of Contents



Although the Company has in recent years increasingly emphasized internal growth rather than growth
by acquisition, the Company’s ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate
the acquired businesses successfully, obtaining anticipated cost savings and operating income
improvements within a reasonable period of time, remain important factors in the Company’s future
growth. Furthermore, the cost of any future major acquisitions could constrain the Company’s
access to capital and increase the Company’s borrowing costs.


The Company is subject to risks related to its international operations.


Foreign operations, especially in Europe, but also in Asia, Central and South America and Canada,
are important to the Company’s business. The Company is expanding from a U.S.-centric business
model to one that includes international growth as an increasing focus. In addition, as the
Company increasingly sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in the Far East, it is
exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. Foreign operations can be affected by factors such
as currency devaluation, other currency fluctuations, tariffs, nationalization, exchange controls,
interest rates, limitations on foreign investment in local business and other political, economic
and regulatory risks and difficulties. The Company also faces risks due to the transportation and
logistical complexities inherent in increased reliance on foreign sourcing.


The Company faces challenges and uncertainties as it transforms into a company that grows through
consumer-meaningful brands and new product innovation.


The Company is undergoing a transformation from a portfolio-holding company that grew through
acquisitions to a focused group of leadership platforms that generate internal growth driven by
consumer-meaningful brands and new product innovation. Such a transformation will require
significant investment in brand-building, marketing and product development and the development of
the right methods for understanding how consumers interact with the Company’s brands and categories
and measuring the effectiveness of advertising and promotion spending. Although the process is
well underway, there remain significant challenges and uncertainties.


Complications in connection with the Company’s current information system initiative may impact its
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


The Company is in the early stages of replacing various business information systems worldwide with
an enterprise resource planning system from SAP. The pilot implementation is currently planned for
the North American Office Products business in late 2007. The implementation will occur over
several years in phases, primarily based on geographic region and segment. This activity involves
the migration of multiple legacy systems and users to a common SAP information platform.
Throughout this process, the Company is changing the way it conducts business and employees’ roles
in processing and utilizing information. In addition, this conversion will impact certain
interfaces with the Company’s customers and suppliers, resulting in changes to the tools we use to
take orders, procure material, schedule production, remit billings, make payments and perform other
business functions. Based upon the complexity of this initiative, there is risk that the Company
will be unable to complete the implementation in accordance with its timeline and will incur
additional costs, the implementation could result in operating inefficiencies, and the
implementation could impact the Company’s ability to perform necessary business transactions. All
of these risks could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and
cash flows.


Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results.


Future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the Company’s assets and
require impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions
made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic
environment on the Company’s customer base, or a material adverse change in its relationship with
significant customers.


Product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the Company’s financial
results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands.


Claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the Company’s products arise in the
ordinary course of the Company’s business. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary
judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that
could harm the Company’s reputation in the marketplace or


- 12 -




Table of Contents





the value of its end-user brands. The Company could also be required to recall possibly defective
products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company
maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a
self-insured retention or could be excluded under the terms of the policy.





ITEM 1B