ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


The factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this
report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and
adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.


The Company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail economies in
various parts of the world.


The Company’s business depends on the strength of the retail economies in various parts of the
world, primarily in North America and to a lesser extent Europe, Central and South America and
Asia. These retail economies are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the
condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions and
specific events such as natural disasters and the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. In
recent years, the retail industry in the U.S. and, increasingly, elsewhere has been characterized
by intense competition and consolidation among retailers. Because such competition, particularly
in weak retail economies, can cause retailers to struggle or fail, the Company must continuously
monitor, and adapt to changes in, the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of its
customers.


The Company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers.


The Company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial
products, many of which are large and well established. The Company’s principal customers are
large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office
superstores, and commercial distributors. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers,
together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant
multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. Current trends among
retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new
products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with
shorter lead times. Other trends are for retailers to import products directly from foreign
sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with
products of the Company.


The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in
which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use,
resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for strong end-user brands, the ongoing
introduction of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the
maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company also faces the
risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major retailer customers, such as overall store
and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. The resulting risks to the Company include
possible loss of sales, reduced profitability and limited ability to recover cost increases through
price increases.


To compete successfully, the Company must develop a continuing stream of innovative new products
that create consumer demand.



10




 





The Company’s long-term success in this competitive retail environment depends on its ability to
develop a continuing stream of innovative new products that create consumer demand for the
Company’s products. The Company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative
new products that compete with the Company’s products. Project Acceleration, a three-year
initiative announced in September 2005, includes increased investment in new product development.
There are, nevertheless, numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and introducing
innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not deliver expected
growth results.


To compete successfully, the Company must develop and maintain strong end-user brands.


The Company’s competitive success also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain
strong end-user brands so that the Company’s retailer customers will need the Company’s products to
meet consumer demand. The development and maintenance of such brands requires significant
investment in brand building and marketing initiatives. While the Company is substantially
increasing its expenditures for advertising and other brand building and marketing initiatives as a
part of Project Acceleration, the increased investment may not deliver the anticipated results.


Price increases in raw materials could harm the Company’s financial results.


The Company purchases some raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel and aluminum, that are
subject to price volatility and inflationary pressure. The Company attempts to reduce its exposure
to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, purchases
for future delivery, long-term contracts and sales price adjustments. Where practical, the Company
uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. Raw material price increases may offset
productivity gains and could materially impact the Company’s financial results.


The Company’s success depends on its ability to continuously improve productivity and streamline
operations, principally by reducing its manufacturing overhead.


The Company’s objective is to become its retailer customers’ low-cost provider and global supplier
and brand of choice. To do this, the Company needs to continuously improve its manufacturing
efficiencies and develop sources of supply on a global basis. Project Acceleration includes the
closure of approximately one-third of the Company’s 80 manufacturing facilities (as of September
2005) over the next three years. The Company also needs to continue to divest low-margin product
lines that do not fit in the Company’s strategic plan. The Company runs the risk that Project
Acceleration may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than
expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated, or that another major productivity and
streamlining program may be required after Project Acceleration is completed. In addition,
disruptions in the Company’s ability to supply products on a timely basis, which may be incidental
to any problems in the execution of Project Acceleration, could adversely affect the Company’s
future results.


The Company needs to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired
businesses.


Although the Company has in recent years increasingly emphasized internal growth rather than growth
by acquisition, the Company’s ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate
the acquired businesses successfully, obtaining anticipated cost savings and operating income
improvements within a reasonable period of time, remain important factors in the Company’s future
growth. For example, the successful integration of the recently acquired DYMO business into the
Company’s Office Products segment is important to the Company’s success. Furthermore, the cost of
any future major acquisitions could constrain the Company’s access to capital and increase the
Company’s borrowing costs.


The Company is subject to risks related to its international operations.


Foreign operations, especially in Europe, but also in Asia, Central and South America and Canada,
are important to the Company’s business. In November 2005, the Company acquired the DYMO business
and thereby increased the magnitude of the Company’s operations in Europe. In addition, as the
Company increasingly sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in the Far East, it is
exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. Foreign operations can be affected by factors such
as currency devaluation, other currency fluctuations, tariffs, nationalization,

11




 




exchange controls, interest rates, limitations on foreign investment in local business and other
political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. The Company also faces risks due to the
transportation and logistical complexities inherent in increased reliance on foreign sourcing.


The Company faces challenges and uncertainties as it transforms into a company that grows through
strong brands and new product innovation.


The Company is undergoing a transformation from a portfolio-holding company that grew through
acquisitions to a focused group of leadership platforms that generate internal growth driven by
strong brands and new product innovation. Although the process is well underway, there remain
significant challenges and uncertainties.


Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results.


Future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the Company’s assets and
require impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions
made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic
environment on the Company’s customer base, or a material adverse change in its relationship with
significant customers.


Product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the Company’s financial
results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands.


Claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the Company’s products arise in the
ordinary course of the Company’s business. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary
judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that
could harm the Company’s reputation in the marketplace or the value of its end-user brands. The
Company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse
publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance
coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention or could be
excluded under the terms of the policy.






ITEM 1B