Item 1A, of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.The Company began accounting for its Venezuelan operations using highly inflationary accounting in January 2010. Under highly inflationary accounting, the Company remeasures assets, liabilities, sales and expenses denominated in Bolivar Fuertes into U.S. Dollars using the applicable exchange rate, and the resulting translation adjustments are included in earnings. In June 2010, the Venezuelan government introduced a newly regulated foreign currency exchange system, Transaction System for Foreign Currency Denominated Securities (“SITME”). Foreign currency exchange through SITME is allowed within a specified band of 4.5 to 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte to U.S. Dollar, but most of the exchanges have been executed at the rate of 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte to U.S. Dollar. The Company began applying the SITME rate of 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte to U.S. Dollar in May 2010. The transition to the SITME rate resulted in a foreign exchange gain of $5.6 million, which is recognized in other income for 2010.  The SITME rate has remained unchanged at 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte since June 2010, and consequently, there was no foreign exchange gain or loss recorded for the Company’s Venezuelan operations during 2011 and 2012.  As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s Venezuelan subsidiary had  $63.4 million of net monetary assets denominated in Bolivar Fuertes at the SITME rate of 5.3 Bolivar Fuertes to U.S. Dollar, and as a result, a 10% increase (decrease) in the applicable exchange rate would result in an estimated one-time pretax charge (benefit) of $6 million. On an ongoing basis, excluding the impacts of any actions management might otherwise take in response to a change in exchange rates, such as raising or decreasing prices, a 10% increase (decrease) in the exchange rate would unfavorably (favorably) impact annual net sales and operating income by an estimated $5 million and $3 million, respectively.  In February 2013, the exchange rate for Bolivar Fuertes declined to 6.3 Bolivar Fuertes to U.S. Dollar, and as a result, the Company expects to record an estimated $10 million one-time charge in the first quarter of 2013, based on the decline in value of the net monetary assets of its Venezuelan operations that are denominated in Bolivar Fuertes at the time the devaluation is effective.   In addition, the Company’s 2013 reported net sales and operating income are expected to be adversely impacted by an estimated $9 million and $5 million, respectively, due solely to the devaluation of the Bolivar Fuerte. The Company is unable to predict with certainty whether future devaluations will occur because of the economic uncertainty in Venezuela; however, future devaluations would adversely impact the Company’s future financial results.Raw Materials and Sourced Finished GoodsThe Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, corrugate and metals, including steel, stainless steel, zinc, aluminum and gold. The Company’s resin purchases principally comprise polyethylene and polypropylene in roughly equal quantities. Over the long-term, the Company has experienced inflation in raw material prices, and the Company expects continued inflation pressures 7Table of Contentsin 2013. The Company has reduced the volume of its resin purchases through rationalizing and exiting product lines. On an annualized basis, commodities consumed as raw materials generally represent approximately 10% to 15% of annual cost of products sold, with no single type of commodity representing more than 10% of cost of products sold.The Company also relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. In a limited number of cases, a single manufacturer or a limited number of manufacturers may supply substantially all of the finished goods for a product line. In particular, certain businesses within the Baby & Parenting and Home Solutions segments rely on third-party manufacturers for substantially all of their products.See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.BacklogThe dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.Seasonal VariationsSales of the Company’s products tend to be seasonal, with sales and operating income in the first quarter generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced volume and the mix of products sold in the first quarter. Historically, the Company has earned more than 60% of its annual operating income during the second and third quarters of the year. The seasonality of the Company’s sales volume, combined with the accounting for fixed costs such as depreciation, amortization, rent, personnel costs and interest expense, impacts the Company’s results on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Company has historically generated more than 60% of its operating cash flow in the second half of the year due to seasonal variations in operating results, the timing of annual performance-based compensation payments and customer rebates, and credit terms provided to customers.Patents and TrademarksThe Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks are “Rubbermaid®,” “Graco®,” “Aprica®,” “Levolor®,” “Calphalon®,” “Goody®,” “Sharpie®,” “Paper Mate®,” “Dymo®,” “Parker®,” “Waterman®,” “Irwin®” and “Lenox®.”Customers/CompetitionThe Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. The rapid growth of large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, has contributed to a significant consolidation of the consumer products retail industry and dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment may limit the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling prices.Current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, which compete with products of the Company. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well-established.The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining consumer-meaningful brands and differentiated products that deliver superior value and performance; delivering superior customer service and consistent on-time delivery; producing and procuring products at a competitive cost; and experienced management.The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailer, including discount, drug, grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; and contract stationers. The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart (which includes Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 10.8% of net sales in 2012, across substantially all segments. The Company’s top-ten customers in 2012 included (in alphabetical order): Bed Bath & Beyond, Lowe’s, Office Depot, OfficeMax, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us, United Stationers and Wal-Mart.8Table of ContentsEnvironmental MattersInformation regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report and in Footnote 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.Research and DevelopmentInformation regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three years is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. The Company’s research and development costs are incurred to develop new, differentiated and innovative products to meet consumers’ needs.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately 18,300 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 2,200 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries that have collective arrangements decreed by statute.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.The Company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world.The Company's business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in North America, and to a lesser extent Europe, Central and South America, and Asia. These sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions. With continuing challenging and volatile economic conditions in the U.S., Western Europe and elsewhere, there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on demand for the Company's products as well as its financial condition and results of operations. The Company could also be negatively impacted by economic crises in specific countries or regions, including the deterioration in the creditworthiness of, or a default by, the issuers of sovereign debt. Such events could negatively impact the Company's overall liquidity and/or create significant credit risks relative to its local customers and depository institutions. Consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. The impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact the Company's business.The Company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers and e-commerce companies.The Company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. The Company's principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. Current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices, and delivering products with shorter lead times. Other trends are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with the Company's products.The combination of these market influences and retailer consolidation has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company's principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and consolidation. The intense competition in the retail and e-commerce sectors, combined with the overall economic environment, may result in a number of customers experiencing financial difficulty or failing in the future. In particular, a failure by one of the Company's large customers would adversely impact the Company's sales and operating cash flows.  As a result of these factors, the Company may experience a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases.9Table of ContentsThe Company's plans to continue to improve productivity and reduce complexity and costs may not be successful, which would adversely affect its ability to compete.The Company's success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline or redeploy nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the Company to invest in innovation and brand building.   In October 2011, the Company announced Project Renewal, a global initiative designed to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in the Company's most significant growth platforms, and in October 2012, the Company announced an expansion of Project Renewal, designed to further simplify and align the business around two key activities — Brand & Category Development and Market Execution & Delivery.  As part of the expanded program, the Company's Consumer and Professional groups were eliminated and the Company's nine global business units were streamlined into six business segments. In June 2010, the Company announced its European Transformation Plan, a program to centralize its European business and leverage the benefits of scale and to facilitate a more efficient and cost-effective implementation of an enterprise resource planning program. The Company runs the risk that these and similar initiatives may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated. In addition, these various initiatives require the Company to implement a significant amount of organizational change which could divert management’s attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, could cause disruptions in the Company’s day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on the Company’s financial results. It is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future. If the Company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the Company's ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted.The Company's long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create demand. The Company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the Company's products. The Company's strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. There are, nevertheless, numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not deliver expected growth in sales or operating income.If the Company does not continue to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands, its operating results may suffer.The Company's ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that the Company's retailer and other customers will need the Company's products to meet consumer demand. Consumer-meaningful brands allow the Company to realize economies of scale in its operations. The development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. While the Company plans to continue to increase its expenditures for advertising and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the increased investment may not deliver the anticipated results.Price increases in raw materials and sourced products could harm the Company's financial results.The Company purchases raw materials, including resin, principally polyethylene and polypropylene, corrugate, steel, gold, zinc, brass and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures. The Company attempts to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts and sales price adjustments. Where practical, the Company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. Also, the Company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. These manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the Company pays for sourced products. Raw material and sourced product price increases may more than offset the Company's productivity gains and price increases and adversely impact the Company's financial results.If the Company is unable to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses, the Company's future growth could be adversely impacted.Although the Company is increasingly emphasizing internal growth rather than growth by acquisition, the Company's ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully, including obtaining anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, remain important factors in the Company's future growth. Furthermore, the Company's ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the Company's financial position and access to credit markets. In addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the Company's borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the Company's future access to capital.10Table of ContentsCircumstances associated with divestitures and product lines exits could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.The Company continues to evaluate the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products and may decide to sell or discontinue a business or product based on such an evaluation. A decision to divest or discontinue a business or product may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. In addition, prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. Divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following:•difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel;•the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;•the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture;•the disruption of the Company's business; and•the potential loss of key employees.The Company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or exiting product lines.The Company is subject to risks related to its international operations and sourcing model.International operations, especially in Europe, but also in Asia, Central and South America, and Canada, are important to the Company's business, and the Company's strategy emphasizes international growth. In addition, as the Company sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in Asia, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. Foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation; other currency fluctuations; tariffs; nationalization; exchange controls; labor inflation; interest rates; limitations on foreign investment in local business; and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. The Company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in reliance on foreign sourcing.Venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy effective January 1, 2010, and, accordingly, gains and losses resulting from the translation of the net assets (excluding nonmonetary assets) of operations in Venezuela into U.S. Dollars are recorded in earnings. In February 2013, the exchange rate for the Venezuelan currency, Bolivar Fuerte, declined approximately 15%, which will adversely impact the Company’s financial results. The Company is unable to predict with certainty whether future devaluations will occur because of the economic uncertainty in Venezuela; however, future devaluations would adversely impact the Company’s future financial results. See Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information.The inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect the Company's ability to manufacture and market its products.The Company purchases raw materials to be used in manufacturing its products. In addition, the Company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. The Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its suppliers or sourcing partners. Most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a “purchase order” basis; however, in limited cases where the Company has supply contracts with fixed prices, the Company may be required to purchase raw materials at above-market prices, which could adversely impact gross margins. In addition, in some instances the Company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations.  In particular, the Company's Baby & Parenting business has a single source of supply for many of its products.   Financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by the Company's suppliers and/or sourcing partners or changes in the Company's relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent the Company from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand.Complications in connection with the Company's current information system initiative may adversely impact its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.The Company is in the process of replacing various business information systems worldwide with an enterprise resource planning system from SAP. Through December 31, 2012, the North American and European operations of substantially all of the Company's six segments have successfully gone live with their SAP implementation efforts. The Company's Asia Pacific and Latin American operations have yet to go live on SAP. This activity involves the migration of multiple legacy systems and users to a common SAP information platform. Throughout this process, the Company is changing the way it conducts business and employees' roles in 11Table of Contentsprocessing and utilizing information. In addition, this conversion will impact certain interfaces with the Company's customers and suppliers, resulting in changes to the manner in which the Company takes orders, procures materials, schedules production, remits billings, makes payments and performs other business functions. Based upon the complexity of this initiative, there is risk that the Company will be unable to complete the implementation in accordance with its timeline and will incur additional costs. The implementation could result in operating inefficiencies, and the implementation could impact the Company's ability to perform necessary business transactions, including its ability to supply products on a timely basis. The Company's go-lives have been and will continue to be in a phased approach to reduce the risk of business disruption throughout the Company's business units and regions. However, there can be no assurance that the risk of business disruption can be eliminated with the Company's phased approach. All of these risks could adversely impact the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results.Future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the Company's assets and require impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the Company's sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, a material adverse change in the Company's relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the Company's stock price. The Company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the Company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. Accordingly, the Company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future.The Company's businesses are subject to regulation in the U.S. and abroad.Changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the Company does business. This includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. Accordingly, the Company's ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal matters without significant liability could require the Company to take significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the Company's results. In addition, new regulations may be enacted in the U.S. or abroad that may require the Company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis, significantly restrict the Company's ability to sell certain products, or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. For example, the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission continues to advocate for more strict design standards for window blinds that if implemented, would require the Company to redesign all window blinds sold in the U.S.  For certain products, redesign may not be possible or practical, and as a result, the Company would lose revenues from the sales of such products. As a U.S.-based multinational company, the Company is also subject to tax regulations in the U.S. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. For example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the U.S. is not taxed in the U.S., provided those earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. If these or other tax regulations should change, the Company's financial results could be impacted.The resolution of the Company's tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the Company's cash flows and results of operations.The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and numerous jurisdictions outside the U.S. Significant estimation and judgment is required in determining the Company's worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of the Company's business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company is regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although the Company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. There can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results.Product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the Company's financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands.Claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the Company's products arise in the ordinary course of the Company's business. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company's reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the Company's products. The Company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention or could be excluded under 12Table of Contentsthe terms of the policy.If the Company is unable to access the capital markets to refinance its maturing debt, its borrowing costs could increase.As of December 31, 2012, the Company had $211.9 million of debt that it will be required to refinance or repay within the next 12 months. It is possible that the Company may seek to address its short-term obligations through the capital markets or other arrangements. However, access to the capital markets cannot be assured, and although the Company believes that alternative arrangements will be available to refinance these obligations, such arrangements could result in an increase in the Company's borrowing costs.A reduction in the Company's credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.The Company's current senior debt credit ratings from Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings are Baa3, BBB- and BBB, respectively. Its current short-term debt credit ratings from Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings are P-3, A-3 and F-2, respectively. Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch have a stable outlook on their ratings. The Company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. A downgrade by Moody's or Standard & Poor's, which would reduce the Company's senior debt below investment-grade, could increase the Company's borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the Company's financial results. The Company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. If the Company's short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would limit, or eliminate entirely, the Company's access to the commercial paper market. The ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the Company's securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.The level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the Company's earnings and cash flows in future periods. Changes in government regulations could also affect the Company's pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements.The funding obligations for the Company's pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. Funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the Company could be required to make larger contributions. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore the Company's estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. An adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the Company's required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity.Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the Company's pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by the Company in consultation with outside actuaries. In the event that the Company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, the Company's future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the Company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the Company's pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements.ITEM 1B