Item 1A:          Risk
Factors

 

As used under this
caption “Risk Factors,” references to our capital stock include our common
stock and any class or series of our preferred stock and references to our
stockholders include holders of our common stock or any class or series of our
preferred stock, in each case unless otherwise expressly stated or the context
otherwise requires.

 

In order to grow we
need to continue to acquire investment properties which may be subject to
competitive pressures.

 

We face competition in
the acquisition, operation and sale of property. We expect competition from:

 

•                  businesses;

•                  individuals;

•                  fiduciary
accounts and plans; and

•                  other
entities engaged in real estate investment and financing.

 

Some of these
competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources. This
competition may result in a higher cost for properties we wish to purchase.

 

17












 

Our
tenants’ creditworthiness and ability to pay rent may be affected by
competition within their industries from other operators.

 

The tenants leasing our
properties can face significant competition from other operators.  This competition may adversely impact:

 

•                  that
portion, if any, of the rental stream to be paid to us based on a tenant’s
revenues; and

•                  the
tenants’ results of operations or financial condition.

 

As a property owner, we may be subject to unknown
environmental liabilities.

 

Investments in real
property can create a potential for environmental liability.  An owner of property can face liability for
environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous
substances on the property. We can face such liability regardless of:

 

•                  our
knowledge of the contamination;

•                  the
timing of the contamination;

•                  the
cause of the contamination; or

•                  the
party responsible for the contamination of the property.

 

There
may be environmental problems of which we are unaware associated with our
properties. In that regard, a number of our properties are leased to operators
of convenience stores that sell petroleum-based fuels, as well as to operators
of oil change and tune-up facilities. These facilities, and some other of our
properties, use, or may have used in the past, underground lifts or underground
tanks for the storage of petroleum-based or waste products, which could create
a potential for release of hazardous substances.

 

The presence of
hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell
that property and we may incur substantial remediation costs. Although our
leases generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all
applicable federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and
regulations and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising
from the tenants’ activities on the property, we could nevertheless be subject
to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest. There also can be no
assurance that our tenants could or would satisfy their indemnification
obligations under their leases. The discovery of environmental liabilities
attached to our properties could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations, our financial condition or our ability to make distributions to
stockholders and to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities
and other indebtedness.

 

In addition, several of
our properties were built during the period when asbestos was commonly used in
building construction and other facilities with asbestos may be acquired by the
Company in the future.  Environmental
laws govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos-containing
materials, or ACMs, and require that owners or operators of buildings
containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they
adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and
that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement
in the event that asbestos is disturbed during renovation or demolition of a
building.  These laws may impose fines
and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these
requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or
operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers.

 

Compliance.  We have not been notified by any governmental
authority, and are not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance,
liability or claim relating to hazardous substances, toxic substances, or
petroleum products in connection with any of our present properties.
Nevertheless, if environmental contamination should exist, we could be subject
to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest.  In addition, we believe we are in compliance
in all material respects with all present federal, state and local laws
relating to ACMs.

 

Insurance and Indemnity.  In June 2005, we entered into a new
seven-year environmental insurance policy on our property portfolio which replaced
the previous five-year environmental insurance policy.  The limits on our
new policy are $10 million per occurrence, and $50 million in the
aggregate, subject to a $40,000 self insurance retention, per occurrence, for
properties with underground storage tanks and a $100,000 self insurance retention,
per occurrence, for all other properties.  It is possible that our
insurance could be insufficient to address any particular environmental
situation and that, in the future, we could be unable to obtain insurance for
environmental matters at a reasonable cost, or at all.

 

18












 

Our tenants are generally
responsible for and indemnify us against liabilities for environmental matters
that occur on our properties.  For
properties that have underground storage tanks, in addition to providing an
indemnity in our favor, the tenants generally obtain environmental insurance or
rely upon the state funds in the states where these properties are located.

 

If
we fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust, the amount of dividends
we are able to pay would decrease, which could adversely affect the market
price of our capital stock and could adversely affect the value of our debt
securities.

 

Commencing
with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994, we believe that we have been
organized and have operated, and we intend to continue to operate, so as to
qualify as a “REIT” under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code. However, we
cannot assure you that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that
has satisfied the requirements for qualification as a REIT, or that we will
continue to be organized or operate in a manner that will allow us to continue
to qualify as a REIT.

 

Qualification
as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements under highly
technical and complex Code provisions, for which there are only limited
judicial and administrative interpretations, and the determination of various
factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.

 

For
example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in
each year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must pay
distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT
taxable income (as defined in the Code and determined without regard to the
dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains).

 

In
the future, it is possible that legislation, new regulations, administrative
interpretations or court decisions will change the tax laws with respect to
qualification as a REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of such
qualification.

 

If
we fail to satisfy all of the requirements for qualifications as a REIT, we may
be subject to certain penalty taxes or, in some circumstances, we may fail to
qualify as a REIT.  If we were to fail to
qualify as a REIT in any taxable year:

 

•                  we would be
required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative
minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates;

•                  we would not
be allowed a deduction in computing our taxable income for amounts distributed
to our stockholders;

•                  we could be
disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the
year during which qualification is lost;

•                  we would no
longer be required to make distributions to stockholders; and

•                  this
treatment would substantially reduce amounts available for investment or
distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability for the
years involved, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price
of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities.

 

Even
if we qualify for and maintain our REIT status, we may be subject to certain
federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, if we
have net income from a prohibited transaction, that income will be subject to a
100% tax. Our subsidiary Crest Net is subject to federal and state taxes at the
applicable tax rates on its income and property.

 

Distributions requirements imposed by law limit our
flexibility.

 

To
maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we generally are
required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable
income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by
excluding net capital gains each year. We also are subject to tax at regular
corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT
taxable income (including net capital gains) each year.

 

In
addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax to the extent that we
fail to distribute during any calendar year at least the sum of 85% of our
ordinary income for that calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net

 

19












 

income
for the calendar year, and any amount of that income that was not distributed
in prior years.

 

We
intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the
distribution requirements of the Code as well as to reduce our exposure to
federal income taxes and the nondeductible excise tax. Differences in timing
between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses to arrive at taxable
income, along with the effect of required debt amortization payments, could
require us to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the distribution
requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with
qualifying as a REIT.

 

Future issuances of equity securities could dilute the
interest of holders of our common stock.

 

Our
future growth will depend, in large part, upon our ability to raise additional
capital. If we were to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity
securities, we could dilute the interests of holders of our common stock. The
interests of our common stockholders could also be diluted by the issuance of
shares of common stock upon the exercise of outstanding options or pursuant to
stock incentive plans.  Likewise, our
Board of Directors is authorized to cause us to issue preferred stock of any
class or series (with dividend, voting and other rights as determined by the
Board of Directors). Accordingly, the Board of Directors may authorize the
issuance of preferred stock with voting, dividend and other similar rights that
could dilute, or otherwise adversely affect, the interests of holders of our
common stock.

 

We are
subject to risks associated with debt financing.

 

We intend to incur
additional indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under our $300
million acquisition credit facility.  At February
10, 2006, we had borrowings outstanding under our $300 million acquisition
credit facility of $131.6 million and we had a total of $755 million
outstanding in unsecured notes and bonds. To the extent that new indebtedness
is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would
increase. As a result, we are and will be subject to risks associated with debt
financing, including the risk that our cash flow could be insufficient to meet
required payments on our debt.  We also
face variable interest rate risk as the interest rate on our $300 million
credit facility is variable and could therefore increase over time.  We also face the risk that we may be unable
to refinance or repay our debt as it comes due. In addition, our $300 million
credit facility contains financial covenants that could limit the amount of
distributions payable by us on our common stock and preferred stock in the
event of deterioration in our results of operations or financial
condition.  Our $300 million credit
facility also provides that in the event of a failure to pay principal or interest
on borrowings there under when due (subject to any applicable grace period), we
and our subsidiaries may not pay any dividends on our capital stock, including
our outstanding common and preferred stock. If this were to occur, it would
likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our outstanding common and
preferred stock and on the value of our debt securities.

 

Our indebtedness could
also have other important consequences to holders of the common stock, such as:

 

•                  increase our
vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

•                  limit our
ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital
expenditures and other general corporate requirements;

•                  require the use
of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and
interest on, our indebtedness thereby
reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital
expenditures and general corporate requirements;

•                  limit our
flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our
industry; and

•                  place us at a
disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness.

 

Our
business operations may not generate the cash needed to make distributions on
our capital stock or to service our indebtedness.

 

Our ability to make
distributions on our common stock and preferred stock and payments on our
indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our
ability to generate cash in the future.  There
can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from
operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount
sufficient to enable us to make distributions on our common stock and preferred
stock, to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.

 

20












 

The market value of our capital
stock and debt securities could be substantially affected by various factors.

 

The market value of our
capital stock and debt securities will depend on many factors, which may change
from time to time, including, but not limited to:

 

•                  interest rate
increases that may have an adverse effect on the market value of our capital
stock and our debt securities;

•                  the market for
other similar securities issued by other REITs;

•                  general economic
and financial market conditions;

•                  the financial
condition, performance and prospects of us and our competitors;

•                  changes in
financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts with respect to
us, our competitors or our industry;

•                  changes in our
credit ratings; and

•                  actual or
anticipated variations in quarterly operating results.

 

As a result of these and
other factors, investors who purchase our capital stock and debt securities may
experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the market value of our capital
stock and debt securities, including decreases unrelated to our operating
performance or prospects.

 

Real
Estate ownership is subject to particular economic conditions that may have a
negative impact on our revenue.

 

We
are subject to all of the general risks associated with the ownership of real
estate.  In particular, we face the risk
that rental revenue from our properties may be insufficient to cover all
corporate operating expenses, debt service payments on indebtedness we incur
and distributions on our stock. Additional real estate ownership risks include:

 

•                  adverse
changes in general or local economic conditions;

•                  changes in
supply of, or demand for, similar or competing properties;

•                  changes in
interest rates and operating expenses;

•                  competition
for tenants;

•                  changes in
market rental rates;

•                  inability to
lease properties upon termination of existing leases;

•                  renewal of
leases at lower rental rates;

•                  inability to
collect rents from tenants due to financial hardship, including bankruptcy;

•                  changes in
tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may have an adverse impact
upon the value of real estate;

•                  uninsured
property liability;

•                  property
damage or casualty losses;

•                  unexpected
expenditures for capital improvements or to bring properties into compliance
with applicable federal, state and local laws;

•                  acts of
terrorism and war; and

•                  acts of God
and other factors beyond the control of our management.

 

An
uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policy limits on our properties could
subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties.

 

Under
the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties,
tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from
liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, due
to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the
negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, tenants
are generally required, at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full
force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance
policies. The insurance policies our tenants are required to maintain for
property damage are generally in amounts not less than the full replacement
cost of the improvements less slab, foundations, supports and other customarily
excluded improvements. Our tenants are generally required to maintain general
liability coverage varying between $1,000,000 and $10,000,000 depending on the
tenant and the industry in which it operates.

 

In
addition to the indemnities and required insurance policies identified above,
many of our properties are also covered by flood and earthquake insurance
policies (subject to substantial deductibles) obtained and paid for by

 

21












 

the
tenants as part of their risk management programs. Additionally, we have
obtained blanket liability, flood and earthquake (subject to substantial
deductibles) and property damage insurance policies to protect us and our
properties against loss should the indemnities and insurance policies provided
by the tenants fail to restore the properties to their condition prior to a
loss. However, should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding
the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of
a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy,
we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue
from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations or financial condition and on our ability to pay
the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and
to make distributions to our stockholders.

 

Compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990
and fire, safety, and other regulations may require us to make unintended
expenditures that could adversely impact our results of operation.

 

Our
properties are generally required to comply with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance
requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but
generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with
disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of
access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the
U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants. The retailers to
whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA
provisions, and we believe that these retailers may be obligated to cover costs
associated with compliance. If required changes involve greater expenditures
than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis
than anticipated, the ability of these retailers to cover costs could be
adversely affected and we could be required to expend our own funds to comply
with the provisions of the ADA, which could materially adversely affect our
results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay the
principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to
make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, we are required to operate
our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes
and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies
and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make
substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these
expenditures could materially adversely affect our results of operations or
financial condition and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our
debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our
stockholders.

 

Property taxes may increase without notice.

 

The
real property taxes on our properties and any other properties that we develop
or acquire in the future may increase as property tax rates change and as those
properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities.

 

A downturn in our tenants’ industries could adversely impact
our business.

 

For 2005, our tenants in
the convenience store and child care industries accounted for approximately
18.7% and 12.7%, respectively, of our rental revenue.  Individually, each of the other industries in
our property portfolio accounted for less than 10% of our rental revenue for
the year 2005.  A downturn in any of
these industries, whether nationwide or limited to specific sectors of the
United States, could adversely affect tenants in these industries, which in
turn could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, results of
operations and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt
securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions on our common stock
and preferred stock.

 

In addition, a
substantial number of our properties are leased to middle-market retail chains
that generally have more limited financial and other resources than certain
upper-market retail chains, and therefore they are more likely to be adversely
affected by a downturn in their respective business or in the regional or
national economy.

 

We depend on key personnel.

 

We
depend on the efforts of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of
the services of our executive officers and key employees could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and on our
ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other
indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders.  It is possible that we will not be able to
recruit additional personnel with equivalent experience in the retail,
net-leasing industry.

 

22












 

Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may
affect the value of our debt and equity securities, the markets in which we
operate and our results of operations.

 

Terrorist
attacks may negatively affect our operations and your investment.  There can be no assurance that there will not
be further terrorist attacks against the United States or United States
businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact our physical
facilities or the businesses of our tenants.

 

Such
events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in
increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy.
They also could result in or prolong an economic recession in the U.S. or
abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on our
operating results and revenues and on the market price of our capital stock and
on the value of our debt securities.  It
could also have an adverse effect on our ability to pay principal and interest
on our debt securities or other indebtedness and to make distributions to our
stockholders.

 

Item 1B