ITEM 1A.               RISK FACTORS

 

Asbestos-Related Contingent Liability – The Company has made,
and will continue to make, substantial payments to resolve claims of persons
alleging exposure to asbestos-containing products and may need to record
additional charges in the future for estimated asbestos-related costs.  These substantial payments have affected and
may continue to affect the Company’s cost of borrowing and the ability to
pursue acquisitions.

 

The
Company is one of a number of defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits
filed in numerous state and federal courts by persons alleging bodily injury
(including death) as a result of exposure to dust from asbestos fibers.  From 1948 to 1958, one of the Company’s
former business units commercially produced and sold approximately $40 million
of a high-temperature, calcium-silicate based pipe and block insulation
material containing asbestos.  The
Company exited the pipe and block insulation business in April 1958.  The traditional asbestos personal injury
lawsuits and claims relating to such production and sale of asbestos material
typically allege various theories of liability, including negligence, gross
negligence and strict liability and seek compensatory and in some cases,
punitive damages in various amounts (herein referred to as “asbestos claims”).

 

The
Company believes that its ultimate asbestos-related liability (i.e., its
indemnity payments or other claim disposition costs plus related legal fees)
cannot be estimated with certainty. Beginning with the initial liability of
$975 million established in 1993, the Company has accrued a total of
approximately $3.22 billion through 2007, before insurance recoveries, for its
asbestos-related liability.  The Company’s
ability reasonably to estimate its liability has been significantly affected by
the volatility of asbestos-related litigation in the United States, the
expanding list of non-traditional defendants that have been sued in this
litigation and found liable for substantial damage awards, the use of mass  litigation screenings to generate new
lawsuits, the large number of claims asserted or filed by parties who claim
prior exposure to asbestos materials but have no present physical impairment as
a result of such exposure, and the significant number of co-defendants that
have filed for bankruptcy.

 

9












 

The
Company conducted a comprehensive review of its asbestos-related liabilities
and costs in connection with finalizing and reporting its results of operations
for the year ended December 31, 2007 and concluded that an increase in its
reserve for future asbestos-related costs in the amount of $115.0 million was
required.

 

The
ultimate amount of distributions which may be required to be made by the
Company to fund the Company’s asbestos-related payments cannot be estimated
with certainty.  The Company’s reported
results of operations for 2007 were materially affected by the $115.0 million
fourth quarter charge and asbestos-related payments continue to be
substantial.  Any future additional
charge may likewise materially affect the Company’s results of operations for
the period in which it is recorded. Also, the continued use of significant
amounts of cash for asbestos-related costs has affected and may continue to
affect the Company’s cost of borrowing and its ability to pursue global or
domestic acquisitions.

 

Substantial
Leverage – The Company’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect the
Company’s financial health.

 

The Company has a
significant amount of debt.  As of December 31,
2007, the Company had approximately $3.7 billion of total debt outstanding,
reduced from $5.5 billion at December 31, 2006.  While the debt level is lower, the Company’s remaining
indebtedness could result in the following consequences:

 

·      Increased
vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

·      Increased
vulnerability to interest rate increases for the portion of the unhedged and
fixed rate borrowing swapped into variable rates;

·      Require
the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to
payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to
fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development efforts
and other general corporate purposes;

·      Limited
flexibility in reacting to the Company’s competitors that have less debt; and

·      Limit,
along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the documents
governing  indebtedness, among other
things, the Company’s ability to borrow additional funds.

 

Ability to Service Debt—To service
its indebtedness, the Company will require a significant amount of cash. The
Company’s ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond its control.

 

The
Company’s ability to make payments on and to refinance its indebtedness and to
fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development efforts
and other general corporate purposes depends on its ability to generate cash in
the future.  The Company has no assurance
that it will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future
borrowings will be available under the secured credit agreement, in an amount
sufficient to enable the Company to pay its indebtedness, or to fund other
liquidity needs. If short term interest rates increase, the Company’s debt
service cost will increase because some of its debt is subject to short term
variable interest rates. At December 31, 2007, the Company’s debt subject
to variable interest rates, including fixed rate debt swapped to variable rate,
represented approximately 62% of total debt.

 

The
Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before
maturity. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow and is
unable to refinance or extend outstanding borrowings on commercially reasonable
terms or at all, it may have to:

 

·      Reduce or
delay capital expenditures planned for replacements, improvements and
expansions;

·      Sell
assets;

·      Restructure
debt; and/or

 

10












 

·      Obtain
additional debt or equity financing.

 

The
Company can provide no assurance that it could effect or implement any of these
alternatives on satisfactory terms, if at all.

 

Debt Restrictions—The Company may
not be able to finance future needs or adapt its business plans to changes
because of restrictions contained in the secured credit agreement and the
indentures and instruments governing other indebtedness.

 

The
secured credit agreement, the indentures governing secured and unsecured notes
and debentures, and certain of the agreements governing other indebtedness contain
affirmative and negative covenants that limit the ability of the Company to
take certain actions. For example, some of these indentures restrict, among
other things, the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries to
borrow money, pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase its stock, make
investments, create liens, enter into certain transactions with affiliates and
sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies. These restrictions
could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate its businesses and may
limit its ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they
arise.

 

Failure
to comply with these or other covenants and restrictions contained in the
secured credit agreement, the indentures or agreements governing other
indebtedness could result in a default under those agreements, and the debt
under those agreements, together with accrued interest, could then be declared
immediately due and payable. If a default occurs under the secured credit
agreement, the lenders could cause all of the outstanding debt obligations
under such secured credit agreement to become due and payable, which would
result in a default under a number of other outstanding debt securities and
could lead to an acceleration of obligations related to these debt securities.
A default under the secured credit agreement, indentures or agreements
governing other indebtedness could also lead to an acceleration of debt under
other debt instruments that contain cross acceleration or cross-default
provisions.

 

International Operations – The Company is subject to risks
associated with operating in foreign countries.

 

The Company operates
manufacturing and other facilities throughout the world.  Net sales from international operations
totaled approximately $5.6 billion, representing approximately 75% of the
Company’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007.  As a result of its international operations,
the Company is subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries,
including:

 

·      Political,
social and economic instability;

·      War,
civil disturbance or acts of terrorism;

·      Taking
of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation;

·      Changes
in government policies and regulations;

·      Devaluations
and fluctuations in currency exchange rates;

·      Imposition
of limitations on conversions of foreign currencies into dollars or remittance
of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;

·      Imposition
or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by
foreign subsidiaries;

·      Hyperinflation
in certain foreign countries; and

·      Impositions
or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign
governments.

 

The risks associated with
operating in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on
operations.

 

11












 

Competition
– The Company faces intense competition from other glass container producers,
as well as from makers of alternative forms of packaging.  Competitive pressures could adversely affect the
Company’s financial health.

 

The Company is subject to
significant competition from other glass container producers, as well as from
makers of alternative forms of packaging, such as aluminum cans and plastic
containers.  The Company competes with
each rigid packaging competitor on the basis of price, quality, service and the
marketing attributes of the container. 
Advantages or disadvantages in any of these competitive factors may be
sufficient to cause the customer to consider changing suppliers and/or using an
alternative form of packaging.  The
Company also competes with manufacturers of non-rigid packaging alternatives,
including flexible pouches and aseptic cartons, in serving the packaging needs
of juice customers.

 

Pressures from
competitors and producers of alternative forms of packaging have resulted in
excess capacity in certain countries in the past and have led to significant
pricing pressures in the rigid packaging market.

 

High
Energy Costs – Higher energy costs worldwide and interrupted power supplies may
have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Electrical power, natural
gas, and fuel oil are vital to the Company’s operations as it relies on a
continuous power supply to conduct its business.  Depending on the location and mix of energy
sources, energy accounts for 15% to 25% of total production costs.  If energy costs substantially increase in the
future, the Company could experience a significant increase in operating costs,
which may have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Business
Integration Risks – The Company may not be able to effectively integrate additional
businesses it acquires in the future.

 

The Company may consider
strategic transactions, including acquisitions that will complement, strengthen
and enhance growth in its worldwide glass operations.  The Company evaluates opportunities on a
preliminary basis from time to time but 
these transactions may not advance beyond the preliminary stages or be
completed.  Such acquisitions are subject
to various risks and uncertainties, including:

 

·      The
inability to integrate effectively the operations, products, technologies and
personnel of the acquired companies (some of which are located in diverse
geographic regions) and achieve expected synergies;

·      The
potential disruption of existing business and diversion of management’s
attention from day-to-day operations;

·      The
inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;

·      The
need or obligation to divest portions of the acquired companies; and

·      The
potential impairment of relationships with customers.

 

In addition, the Company
cannot make assurances that the integration and consolidation of newly acquired
businesses will achieve any anticipated cost savings and operating synergies.

 

Customer
Consolidation – The continuing consolidation of the Company’s customer base may
intensify pricing pressures and have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Since the early 1990s,
many of the Company’s largest customers have acquired companies with similar or
complementary product lines.  This
consolidation has increased the concentration of the Company’s business with
its largest customers.  In many cases,
such consolidation has been accompanied by pressure from customers for lower
prices, reflecting the increase in the total volume of products purchased or
the 

 

12












 

elimination of a price
differential between the acquiring customer and the company acquired.  Increased pricing pressures from the Company’s
customers may have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Seasonality
and Raw Materials – Profitability could be affected by varied seasonal demands
and the availability of raw materials.

 

Due principally to the
seasonal nature of the brewing, iced tea and other beverage industries, in
which demand is stronger during the summer months, sales of the Company’s
products have varied and are expected to vary by quarter.  Shipments in the U.S. and Europe are
typically greater in the second and third quarters of the year, while shipments
in the Asia Pacific region are typically greater in the first and fourth
quarters of the year, and shipments in South America are typically greater in
the third and fourth quarters of the year. 
Unseasonably cool weather during peak demand periods can reduce demand
for certain beverages packaged in the Company’s containers.

 

The raw materials that
the Company uses have historically been available in adequate supply from
multiple sources.  For certain raw
materials, however, there may be temporary shortages due to weather or other
factors, including disruptions in supply caused by raw material transportation
or production delays.  These shortages,
as well as material increases in the cost of any of the principal raw materials
that the Company uses, may have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Environmental
Risks – The Company is subject to various environmental legal requirements and
may be subject to new legal requirements in the future.  These requirements may have a material
adverse effect on operations.

 

The Company’s operations
and properties, both in the U.S. and abroad, are subject to extensive laws,
ordinances, regulations and other legal requirements relating to environmental
protection, including legal requirements governing investigation and clean-up
of contaminated properties as well as water discharges, air emissions, waste
management and workplace health and safety. 
Such legal requirements frequently change and vary among jurisdictions.  The Company’s operations and properties, both
in the U.S. and abroad, must comply with these legal requirements.  These requirements may have a material
adverse effect on operations.

 

The Company has incurred,
and expects to incur, costs for its operations to comply with environmental
legal requirements, and these costs could increase in the future.  Many environmental legal requirements provide
for substantial fines, orders (including orders to cease operations), and
criminal sanctions for violations.  These
legal requirements may apply to conditions at properties that the Company
presently or formerly owned or operated, as well as at other properties for
which the Company may be responsible, including those at which wastes
attributable to the Company were disposed. 
A significant order or judgment against the Company, the loss of a
significant permit or license or the imposition of a significant fine may have
a material adverse effect on operations.

 

A number of governmental
authorities both in the U.S. and abroad have enacted, or are considering, legal
requirements that would mandate certain rates of recycling, the use of recycled
materials and/or limitations on certain kinds of packaging materials.  In addition, some companies with packaging
needs have responded to such developments and/or perceived environmental concerns
of consumers by using containers made in whole or in part of recycled
materials.  Such developments may reduce
the demand for some of the Company’s products and/or increase the Company’s
costs, which may have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

13












 

Labor
Relations – Some of the Company’s employees are unionized or represented by
workers’ councils.

 

The Company is party to a
number of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions which at December 31,
2007, covered approximately 95% of the Company’s hourly employees in North
America and approximately 58% of the employees in South America.  The agreement covering substantially all of
the Company’s union-affiliated employees in its U.S. glass container operations
expires on March 31, 2008.  Agreements
in South America typically have an average term of approximately 2-3 years.  Upon the expiration of any collective
bargaining agreement, if the Company is unable to negotiate acceptable
contracts with labor unions, it could result in strikes by the affected workers
and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to
union members. In addition, a large number of the Company’s employees are
employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or
other rights to employees than the laws of the U.S.  Such employment rights require the Company to
work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect
any changes to labor arrangements.  For
example, most of the Company’s employees in Europe are represented by workers’
councils that must approve any changes in conditions of employment, including
salaries and benefits and staff changes, and may impede efforts to restructure
the Company’s workforce.  Although the
Company believes that it has a good working relationship with its employees, if
the Company’s employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, the
Company could experience a significant disruption of operations and/or higher ongoing
labor costs, which may have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Accounting
– The Company’s financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that
may differ from actual results.

 

In preparing the
Company’s consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, several estimates and assumptions are made that
affect the accounting for and recognition of assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses.  These estimates and
assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the
preparation of the Company’s financial statements is dependent on future
events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data
available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally
accepted methodologies.  In some cases,
these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and the Company must
exercise significant judgment.  The Company believes that accounting for long-lived
assets, pension benefit plans, contingencies and litigation, and income taxes
involves the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation
of its consolidated financial statements. 
Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the
estimates and assumptions that the Company uses, which could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

 

Accounting Standards – The adoption of new accounting
standards or interpretations could adversely impact the Company’s financial results.

 

The
Company’s implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules and
interpretations could adversely affect its operating results or cause
unanticipated fluctuations in its results in future periods.  The accounting rules and regulations
that the Company must comply with are complex and continually changing.  Recent actions and public comments from the
SEC have focused on the integrity of financial reporting generally.  The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or
FASB, has recently introduced several new or proposed accounting standards, or
is developing new proposed standards, which would represent a significant
change from current industry practices. 
For example, in February 2007, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,
“Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Including
an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115” (“FAS No. 159”).  FAS No. 159 permits entities to choose
to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair
value.  The statement is effective for
fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, therefore the Company will
adopt its provisions effective as of January 1, 2008.  Adoption of FAS No. 159 is not presently
expected to have a material impact on the 

 

14












 

Company’s results of
operations or financial position.  In addition, many companies’ accounting
policies are being subjected to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the
public.  While the Company believes that
its financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, the Company cannot predict the impact of future
changes to accounting principles or its accounting policies on its financial
statements going forward.

 

Goodwill
– A significant write down of goodwill would have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s reported results of operations and net worth.

 

As
required by FAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangibles,” the Company
evaluates goodwill annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise)
for impairment using the required business valuation methods.  Goodwill at December 31, 2007 totaled
$2,428.1 million.  These methods include
the use of a weighted average cost of capital to calculate the present value of
the expected future cash flows of the Company’s reporting units.  Future changes in the cost of capital,
expected cash flows, or other factors may cause the Company’s goodwill to be
impaired, resulting in a non-cash charge against results of operations to write
down goodwill for the amount of the impairment. 
If a significant write down is required, the charge would have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s reported results of operations and net
worth.

 

ITEM 1B