ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        







Asbestos-Related Liability—The Company has made, and will continue to make, substantial
payments to resolve claims of persons alleging exposure to asbestos-containing products and may need to record additional charges in the future for estimated asbestos-related costs. These substantial
payments have affected and may continue to affect the Company's cost of borrowing and the ability to pursue acquisitions.  


        The Company is a defendant in numerous lawsuits alleging bodily injury and death as a result of exposure to asbestos dust. From 1948 to
1958, one of the Company's former business units commercially produced and sold approximately $40 million of a high-temperature, calcium-silicate based pipe and block insulation material
containing asbestos. The Company exited the pipe and block insulation business in April 1958. The typical asbestos personal injury lawsuit alleges various theories of liability, including negligence,
gross negligence and strict liability and seeks compensatory, and in some cases, punitive damages, in various amounts (herein referred to as "asbestos claims"). 

7




 

Table of Contents

        The
Company believes that its ultimate asbestos-related liability (i.e., its indemnity payments or other claim disposition costs plus related legal fees) cannot reasonably be
estimated. Beginning with the initial liability of $975 million established in 1993, the Company has accrued a total of approximately $4.4 billion through 2014, before insurance
recoveries, for its asbestos-related liability. The Company's ability to reasonably estimate its liability has been significantly affected by, among other factors, the volatility of asbestos-related
litigation in the United States, the significant number of co-defendants that have filed for bankruptcy, the inherent uncertainty of future disease incidence and claiming patterns against the Company,
the significant expansion of the defendants that are now sued in this litigation, and the continuing changes in the extent to which these defendants participate in the resolution of cases in which the
Company is also a defendant. 

        The
Company conducted a comprehensive review of its asbestos-related liabilities and costs in connection with finalizing and reporting its results of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2014 and concluded that an increase in its accrual for future asbestos-related costs in the amount of $135 million (pretax and after tax) was required. 


        The
significant assumptions underlying the material components of the Company's accrual relate to: 



a)the
extent to which settlements are limited to claimants who were exposed to the Company's asbestos-containing insulation prior to its exit from that
business in 1958;
b)the
extent to which claims are resolved under the Company's administrative claims agreements or on terms comparable to those set forth in those agreements;
c)the
extent of decrease or increase in the incidence of serious asbestos-related disease cases and claiming patterns against the Company for such cases;
d)the
extent to which the Company is able to defend itself successfully at trial or on appeal;
e)the
number and timing of additional co-defendant bankruptcies; and
f)the
extent to which co-defendants with substantial resources and assets continue to participate significantly in the resolution of future asbestos lawsuits
and claims. 


        The
ultimate amount of distributions that may be required to fund the Company's asbestos-related payments cannot reasonably be estimated. The Company's reported results of operations for
2014 were materially affected by the $135 million (pretax and after tax) fourth quarter charge and asbestos-related payments continue to be substantial. Any future additional charge may
likewise materially affect the Company's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. Also, the continued use of significant amounts of cash for asbestos-related costs has affected
and may continue to affect the
Company's cost of borrowing, its ability to pursue global or domestic acquisitions, its ability to reinvest in its operations, and its ability to pay dividends. 







Substantial Leverage—The Company's indebtedness could adversely affect the Company's
financial health.  

        The Company has a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had approximately $3.5 billion of
total debt outstanding, a decrease from $3.6 billion at December 31, 2013. 

        The
Company's indebtedness could result in the following consequences:



• Increased vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 
• Increased vulnerability to interest rate increases for the portion of the debt under the secured credit agreement; 

8




 

Table of Contents



• Require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the
availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development efforts and other general corporate purposes; 
• Limit flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the Company's business and the rigid packaging market;  
• Place the Company at a competitive disadvantage relative to its competitors that have less debt; and  
• Limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the documents governing indebtedness, among other things, the
Company's ability to borrow additional funds. 








Ability to Service Debt—To service its indebtedness, the Company will require a
significant amount of cash. The Company's ability to generate cash and refinance certain indebtedness depends on many factors beyond its control.  

        The Company's ability to make payments on and to refinance its indebtedness and to fund working capital, capital expenditures,
acquisitions, development efforts and other general corporate purposes depends on its ability to generate cash in the future. The Company has no assurance that it will generate sufficient cash flow
from operations, or that future borrowings will be available under the secured credit agreement, in an amount sufficient to enable the Company to pay its indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity
needs. If short term interest rates increase, the Company's debt service cost will increase because some of its debt is subject to short term variable interest rates. At December 31, 2014, the
Company's debt subject to variable interest rates represented approximately 21% of total debt. 

        The
Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow and is unable to refinance or
extend outstanding borrowings on commercially reasonable terms or at all, it may have to take one or more of the following actions:



• Reduce or delay capital expenditures planned for replacements, improvements and expansions;  
• Sell assets; 
• Restructure debt; and/or 
• Obtain additional debt or equity financing. 


        The
Company can provide no assurance that it could affect or implement any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms, if at all. 







Debt Restrictions—The Company may not be able to finance future needs or adapt its
business plans to changes because of restrictions placed on it by the secured credit agreement and the indentures and instruments governing other indebtedness.  


        The secured credit agreement, the indentures governing the senior debentures and notes, and certain of the agreements governing other
indebtedness contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit the ability of the Company to take certain actions. For example, these indentures restrict, among other things, the ability of the
Company and its restricted subsidiaries to borrow money, pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase its stock, make investments, create liens, enter into certain transactions with affiliates and sell
certain assets or merge with or into other companies. These restrictions could adversely affect the Company's ability to operate its businesses and may limit its ability to take advantage of potential
business opportunities as they arise. 

        Failure
to comply with these or other covenants and restrictions contained in the secured credit agreement, the indentures or agreements governing other indebtedness could result in a
default under 

9




 

Table of Contents

those
agreements, and the debt under those agreements, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. If a default occurs under the secured credit agreement, the
Company could no longer request borrowings under the secured credit agreement, and the lenders could cause all of the outstanding debt obligations under such secured credit agreement to become due and
payable, which would result in a default under a number of other outstanding debt securities and could lead to an acceleration of obligations related to these debt securities. A default under the
secured credit agreement, indentures or agreements governing other indebtedness could also lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross acceleration or cross-default
provisions. 







Foreign Currency Exchange Rates—The Company is subject to the effects of fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact the Company's financial results.  

        The Company's reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. A significant portion of the Company's net sales, costs, assets and liabilities
are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Euro, Brazilian real, Colombian peso and Australian dollar. In its consolidated financial statements, the Company remeasures
transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the reporting entity (e.g. soda ash purchases) and translates local currency financial results into U.S. dollars
based on the exchange rates prevailing during the reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, the reported revenues and earnings of the Company's international operations will be
reduced because the local currencies will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 







International Operations—The Company is subject to risks associated with operating in
foreign countries.  

        The Company operates manufacturing and other facilities throughout the world. Net sales from non-U.S. operations totaled approximately
$4.9 billion, representing approximately 73% of the Company's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result of its non-U.S. operations, the Company is subject to risks
associated with operating in foreign countries, including:



• Political, social and economic instability; 
• War, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism; 
• Taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation; 
• Changes in governmental policies and regulations; 
• Devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 
• Imposition of limitations on conversions of foreign currencies into dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign
subsidiaries; 
• Imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;  
• Hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; 
• Impositions or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments;  
• Loss or non-renewal of treaties or other agreements with foreign tax authorities; 
• Changes in tax laws, or the interpretation thereof, affecting foreign tax credits or tax deductions relating to our non-U.S. earnings
or operations; and 
• Complying with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or
other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the 

10




 

Table of Contents




purposes
of obtaining or retaining business or gaining an unfair business advantage and requires companies to maintain accurate books and records and internal controls. 




        The
risks associated with operating in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on operations. 







Competition—The Company faces intense competition from other glass container producers,
as well as from makers of alternative forms of packaging. Competitive pressures could adversely affect the Company's financial health.  


        The Company is subject to significant competition from other glass container producers, as well as from makers of alternative forms of
packaging, such as aluminum cans and plastic containers. The Company also competes with manufacturers of non-rigid packaging alternatives, including flexible pouches and aseptic cartons, in serving
the packaging needs of certain end-use markets, including juice customers. The Company competes with each rigid packaging competitor on the basis of price, quality, service and the marketing and
functional attributes of the container. Advantages or disadvantages in any of these competitive factors may be sufficient to cause the customer to consider changing suppliers and/or using an
alternative form of packaging. The adverse effects of consumer purchasing decisions may be more significant in periods of economic downturn and may lead to longer term reductions in consumer spending
on glass packaged products. 

        Pressures
from competitors and producers of alternative forms of packaging have resulted in excess capacity in certain countries in the past and have led to capacity adjustments and
significant pricing pressures in the rigid packaging market. 







Lower Demand Levels—Changes in consumer preferences may have a material adverse effect
on the Company's financial results.  

        Changes in consumer preferences for the food and beverages they consume can reduce demand for the Company's products. Because many of
the Company's products are used to package consumer goods, the Company's sales and profitability could be negatively impacted by changes in consumer preferences for those products. Examples of changes
in consumer preferences include, but are not limited to, lower sales of major domestic beer brands and shifts from beer to wine or spirits that results in the use of fewer glass containers. In periods
of lower demand, the Company's sales and production levels may decrease causing a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability. 







High Energy Costs—Higher energy costs worldwide and interrupted power supplies may have
a material adverse effect on operations.  

        Electrical power, natural gas, and fuel oil are vital to the Company's operations as it relies on a continuous energy supply to conduct
its business. Depending on the location and mix of energy sources, energy accounts for 10% to 25% of total production costs. Substantial
increases and volatility in energy costs could cause the Company to experience a significant increase in operating costs, which may have a material adverse effect on operations. 







Global Economic Environment—The global credit, financial and economic environment could
have a material adverse effect on operations and financial condition.  

        The global credit, financial and economic environment could have a material adverse effect on operations, including the
following:



• Downturns in the business or financial condition of any of the Company's customers or suppliers could result in a loss of revenues or
a disruption in the supply of raw materials; 

11




 

Table of Contents



• Tightening of credit in financial markets could reduce the Company's ability, as well as the ability of the Company's customers and
suppliers, to obtain future financing; 
• Volatile market performance could affect the fair value of the Company's pension assets and liabilities, potentially requiring the
Company to make significant additional contributions to its pension plans to maintain prescribed funding levels; 
• The deterioration of any of the lending parties under the Company's revolving credit facility or the creditworthiness of the
counterparties to the Company's derivative transactions could result in such parties' failure to satisfy their obligations under their arrangements with the Company; and  
• A significant weakening of the Company's financial position or results of operations could result in noncompliance with the covenants
under the Company's indebtedness. 








Business Integration Risks—The Company may not be able to effectively integrate
additional businesses it acquires in the future.  

        The Company may consider strategic transactions, including acquisitions that will complement, strengthen and enhance growth in its
worldwide glass operations. The Company evaluates opportunities on a preliminary basis from time to time, but these transactions may not advance beyond the preliminary stages or be completed. Such
acquisitions are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including:



• The inability to integrate effectively the operations, products, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies (some of which
are located in diverse geographic regions) and achieve expected synergies; 
• The potential disruption of existing business and diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations;  
• The inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; 
• The need or obligation to divest portions of the acquired companies; 
• The potential impairment of relationships with customers; 
• The potential failure to identify material problems and liabilities during due diligence review of acquisition targets;  
• The potential failure to obtain sufficient indemnification rights to fully offset possible liabilities associated with acquired
businesses; and 
• The challenges associated with operating in new geographic regions. 


        In
addition, the Company cannot make assurances that the integration and consolidation of newly acquired businesses will achieve any anticipated cost savings and operating synergies. 








Customer Consolidation—The continuing consolidation of the Company's customer base may
intensify pricing pressures and have a material adverse effect on operations.  

        Many of the Company's largest customers have acquired companies with similar or complementary product lines. This consolidation has
increased the concentration of the Company's business with its largest customers. In many cases, such consolidation has been accompanied by pressure from customers for lower prices, reflecting the
increase in the total volume of products purchased or the elimination of a price differential between the acquiring customer and the company acquired. Increased pricing pressures from the Company's
customers may have a material adverse effect on operations. 

12






<A
NAME="page_ce41801_1_13"> 








































Table of Contents 







Operational Disruptions—Profitability could be affected by unanticipated operational
disruptions.  

        The Company's glass container manufacturing process is asset intensive and includes the use of large furnaces and machines. The Company
periodically experiences unanticipated disruptions to its assets and these events can have an adverse effect on its business operations and profitability. The impacts of these operational disruptions
include, but are not limited to, higher maintenance, production changeover and shipping costs, higher capital spending, as well as lower absorption of fixed costs during periods of extended downtime.
The Company maintains insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that are reasonable and in line with industry standards; however, this insurance coverage may not be adequate to
protect the Company from all liabilities and expenses that may arise. 







Seasonality—Profitability could be affected by varied seasonal demands.  

        Due principally to the seasonal nature of the consumption of beer and other beverages, for which demand is stronger during the summer
months, sales of the Company's products have varied and are expected to vary by quarter. Shipments in the U.S. and Europe are typically greater in the second and third quarters of the year, while
shipments in the Asia Pacific region are typically greater in the first and fourth quarters of the year, and shipments in South America are typically greater in the third and fourth quarters of the
year. Unseasonably cool weather during peak demand periods can reduce demand for certain beverages packaged in the Company's containers. 







Raw Materials—Profitability could be affected by the availability of raw materials.  

        The raw materials that the Company uses have historically been available in adequate supply from multiple sources. For certain raw
materials, however, there may be temporary shortages due to weather or other factors, including disruptions in supply caused by raw material transportation or production delays. These shortages, as
well as material volatility in the cost of any of the principal raw materials that the Company uses, may have a material adverse effect on operations. 








Environmental Risks—The Company is subject to various environmental legal requirements
and may be subject to new legal requirements in the future. These requirements may have a material adverse effect on operations.  

        The Company's operations and properties are subject to extensive laws, ordinances, regulations and other legal requirements relating to
environmental protection, including legal requirements governing investigation and clean-up of contaminated properties as well as water discharges, air emissions, waste management and workplace health
and safety. Such legal requirements frequently change and vary among jurisdictions. The Company's operations and properties must comply with these legal requirements. These requirements may have a
material adverse effect on operations. 

        The
Company has incurred, and expects to incur, costs for its operations to comply with environmental legal requirements, and these costs could increase in the future. Many environmental
legal requirements provide for substantial fines, orders (including orders to cease operations), and criminal sanctions for violations. These legal requirements may apply to conditions at properties
that the Company presently or formerly owned or operated, as well as at other properties for which the Company may be responsible, including those at which wastes attributable to the Company were
disposed. A significant order or judgment against the Company, the loss of a significant permit or license or the imposition of a significant fine may have a material adverse effect on operations. 

        A
number of governmental authorities have enacted, or are considering enacting, legal requirements that would mandate certain rates of recycling, the use of recycled materials and/or
limitations on certain kinds of packaging materials. In addition, some companies with packaging needs have responded to such developments and/or perceived environmental concerns of consumers by using 

13




 

Table of Contents

containers
made in whole or in part of recycled materials. Such developments may reduce the demand for some of the Company's products and/or increase the Company's costs, which may have a material
adverse effect on operations. 







Taxes—Potential tax law changes could adversely affect net income and cash flow.  

        The Company is subject to income tax in the numerous jurisdictions in which it operates. Increases in income tax rates or other tax law
changes, as well as ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities, could reduce the Company's net income and cash flow from affected jurisdictions. In particular, potential tax law changes
in the U.S. regarding the treatment of the Company's unrepatriated non-U.S. earnings could have a material adverse effect on net income and cash flow. In addition, the Company's products are subject
to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions in which it operates. Increases in these indirect taxes could affect the affordability of the Company's products
and, therefore, reduce demand. 







Labor Relations—Some of the Company's employees are unionized or represented by workers'
councils.  

        The Company is party to a number of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions which at December 31, 2014, covered
approximately 77% of the Company's employees in North America. The principal collective bargaining agreement, which at December 31, 2014 covered approximately 89% of the Company's
union-affiliated employees in North America, will expire on March 31, 2016. Approximately 86% of employees in South America are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The majority of the
hourly workers in Australia and New Zealand are also covered by collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreements in South America, Australia and New Zealand have varying terms
and expiration dates. Upon the expiration of any collective bargaining agreement, if the Company is unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labor unions, it could result in strikes by the
affected workers and increased operating costs as a result of
higher wages or benefits paid to union members. In Europe, a large number of the Company's employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to
employees than the laws of the U.S. Such employment rights require the Company to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor arrangements. For
example, most of the Company's employees in Europe are represented by workers' councils that must approve any changes in conditions of employment, including salaries and benefits and staff changes,
and may impede efforts to restructure the Company's workforce. Although the Company believes that it has a good working relationship with its employees, if the Company's employees were to engage in a
strike or other work stoppage, the Company could experience a significant disruption of operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs, which may have a material adverse effect on operations. 







Key Management and Personnel Retention—Failure to retain key management and personnel
could have a material adverse effect on operations.  

        The Company believes that its future success depends, in part, on its experienced management team and certain key personnel. The loss
of certain key management and personnel could limit the Company's ability to implement its business plans and meet its objectives. 







Joint Ventures—Failure by joint venture partners to observe their obligations could have
a material adverse effect on operations.  

        A portion of the Company's operations is conducted through joint ventures, including joint ventures in the Europe, North America and
Asia Pacific segments. If the Company's joint venture partners do not observe their obligations or are unable to commit additional capital to the joint ventures, it is possible that the affected joint
venture would not be able to operate in accordance with 

14




 

Table of Contents

its
business plans, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. 







Cybersecurity and Information Technology—Security threats and the failure or disruption
of the integrity of the Company's information technology, or those of third parties with which it does business, could have a material adverse effect on its business and the results of operations.  

        The Company relies on information technology to operate its plants, to communicate with its employees, customers and suppliers, to
store sensitive business information and intellectual property, and to report financial and operating results. As with all large systems, the Company's information technology systems could fail on
their own accord or may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses,
hackers or other security issues. While the Company has disaster recovery programs in place, failure or disruption of the Company's information technology systems could result in transaction errors,
loss of customers, business disruptions, or loss of or damage to intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on operations. 

        As
cyberattacks on various organizations have increased, the Company's information technology systems may be subject to increased security issues. While the Company has measures in place
to prevent and detect global security threats, the Company may be unable to prevent certain security breaches. This may result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, regulatory fines,
penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs. Failure or disruption of these systems, or the back-up systems, for any
reason could disrupt the Company's operations and negatively impact the Company's cash flows or financial condition. 







Accounting Estimates—The Company's financial results are based upon estimates and
assumptions that may differ from actual results.  

        In preparing the Company's consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, several
estimates and assumptions are made that affect the accounting for and recognition of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These estimates and assumptions must be made due to certain information
used in the preparation of the Company's financial statements which is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being
readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. The Company believes that accounting for long-lived assets, pension benefit plans, contingencies and litigation, and income taxes involves
the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and
assumptions that the Company uses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. 







Accounting Standards—The adoption of new accounting standards or interpretations could
adversely impact the Company's financial results.  

        New accounting standards or pronouncements could adversely affect the Company's operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations
in its results in future periods. The accounting rules and regulations that the Company must comply with are complex and continually changing. In addition, many companies' accounting policies are
being subjected to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public. While the Company believes that its financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, the Company cannot predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or its accounting policies on its financial statements going forward. 

15




 


Table of Contents







Goodwill—A significant write down of goodwill would have a material adverse effect on
the Company's reported results of operations and net worth.  

        Goodwill at December 31, 2014 totaled $1.9 billion. The Company evaluates goodwill annually (or more frequently if
impairment indicators arise) for impairment using the required business valuation methods. These methods include the use of a weighted average cost of capital to calculate the present value of the
expected future cash flows of the Company's reporting units. Future changes in the cost of capital, expected cash flows, or other factors may cause the Company's goodwill to be impaired, resulting in
a non-cash charge against results of operations to write down goodwill for the amount of the impairment. If a significant write down is required, the charge would have a material adverse effect on the
Company's reported results of operations and net worth. 







Pension Funding—An increase in the underfunded status of the Company's pension plans
could adversely impact the Company's operations, financial condition and liquidity.  

        The Company contributed $28 million, $96 million and $219 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2014,
2013 and 2012, respectively. The amount the Company is required to contribute to these plans is determined by the laws and regulations governing each plan, and is generally related to the funded
status of the plans. A deterioration in the value of the plans'
investments or a decrease in the discount rate used to calculate plan liabilities generally would increase the underfunded status of the plans. An increase in the underfunded status of the plans could
result in an increase in the Company's obligation to make contributions to the plans, thereby reducing the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact
on the Company's operations, financial condition and liquidity.  

<A
NAME="ce41801_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B