ITEM 1A.
  
  
   
  
  
  RISK FACTORS
  
 


 

Asbestos-Related Liability — The Company has made, and will
continue to make, substantial payments to resolve claims of persons alleging
exposure to asbestos-containing products and may need to record additional
charges in the future for estimated asbestos-related costs.  These substantial payments have affected and
may continue to affect the Company’s cost of borrowing and the ability to
pursue acquisitions.

 

The
Company is one of a number of defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits
filed in numerous state and federal courts by persons alleging bodily injury
(including death) as a result of exposure to dust containing asbestos fibers.  From 1948 to 1958, one of the Company’s
former business units commercially produced and sold approximately $40 million
of a high-temperature, calcium-silicate based pipe and block insulation
material containing asbestos.  The
Company exited the pipe and block insulation business in April 1958.  The traditional asbestos personal injury
lawsuits and claims relating to such production and sale of asbestos material
typically allege various theories of liability, including negligence, gross
negligence and strict liability and seek compensatory and in some cases,
punitive damages in various amounts (herein referred to as “asbestos claims”).

 

The
Company believes that its ultimate asbestos-related liability (i.e., its
indemnity payments or other claim disposition costs plus related legal fees)
cannot reasonably be estimated. Beginning with the initial liability of $975
million established in 1993, the Company has accrued a total of approximately
$3.65 billion through 2009, before insurance recoveries, for its
asbestos-related liability.  The Company’s
ability to reasonably estimate its liability has been significantly affected by
the volatility of asbestos-related litigation in the United States, the
inherent uncertainty of future disease incidence and claiming patterns, the
expanding list of non-traditional defendants that have been sued in this
litigation and found liable for substantial damage awards, the use of mass
litigation screenings to generate new lawsuits, the large number of claims
asserted or filed by parties who claim prior exposure to asbestos materials but
have no present physical impairment as a result of such exposure, and the
significant number of co-defendants that have filed for bankruptcy.

 

The
Company conducted a comprehensive review of its asbestos-related liabilities
and costs in connection with finalizing and reporting its results of operations
for the year ended December 31, 2009 and concluded that an increase in its
accrual for future asbestos-related costs in the amount of $180.0 million
(pretax and after tax) was required.

 

The
ultimate amount of distributions that may be required to fund the Company’s
asbestos-related payments cannot reasonably be estimated.  The Company’s reported results of operations
for 2009 were materially affected by the $180.0 million (pretax and after tax)
fourth quarter charge and asbestos-related payments continue to be
substantial.  Any future additional
charge may likewise materially affect the Company’s results of operations for
the period in which it is recorded. Also, the continued use of significant
amounts of cash for asbestos-related costs has affected and may continue to
affect the Company’s cost of borrowing and its ability to pursue global or
domestic acquisitions.

 

Substantial
Leverage — The Company’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect the
Company’s financial health.

 

The Company has a
significant amount of debt.  As of December
31, 2009, the Company had approximately $3.6 billion of total debt outstanding,
increased from $3.3 billion at December 31, 2008.  The Company’s ratios of earnings to fixed
charges were 2.3x and 3.1x for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.

 

10












Table of Contents

 

The Company’s substantial
indebtedness could result in the following consequences:

·      Increased vulnerability to general adverse
economic and industry conditions;

·      Increased vulnerability to interest rate
increases for the portion of the debt under the secured credit agreement;

·      Require the Company to dedicate a
substantial portion of cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness,
thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital
expenditures, acquisitions, development efforts and other general corporate
purposes;

·      Limited flexibility in planning for, or
reacting to, changes in the Company’s business and the rigid packaging market;

·      Place the Company at a competitive disadvantage
relative to its competitors that have less debt; and

·      Limit, along with the financial and other
restrictive covenants in the documents governing indebtedness, among other
things, the Company’s ability to borrow additional funds.

 

Ability to Service Debt — To
service its indebtedness, the Company will require a significant amount of
cash.  The Company’s ability to generate
cash depends on many factors beyond its control.

 

The
Company’s ability to make payments on and to refinance its indebtedness and to
fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development efforts
and other general corporate purposes depends on its ability to generate cash in
the future.  The Company has no assurance
that it will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future
borrowings will be available under the secured credit agreement, in an amount
sufficient to enable the Company to pay its indebtedness, or to fund other
liquidity needs. If short term interest rates increase, the Company’s debt service
cost will increase because some of its debt is subject to short term variable
interest rates. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s debt subject to variable
interest rates represented approximately 31% of total debt.

 

The
Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before
maturity. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow and is
unable to refinance or extend outstanding borrowings on commercially reasonable
terms or at all, it may have to take one or more of the following actions:

·      Reduce or delay capital expenditures planned for replacements,
improvements and expansions;

·      Sell assets;

·      Restructure debt; and/or

·      Obtain additional debt or equity financing.

 

The
Company can provide no assurance that it could effect or implement any of these
alternatives on satisfactory terms, if at all.

 

Debt Restrictions — The
Company may not be able to finance future needs or adapt its business plans to
changes because of restrictions placed on it by the secured credit agreement
and the indentures and instruments governing other indebtedness.

 

The
secured credit agreement, the indentures governing the senior debentures and
notes, and certain of the agreements governing other indebtedness contain
affirmative and negative covenants that limit the ability of the Company to
take certain actions. For example, these indentures restrict, among other
things, the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries to borrow
money, pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase its stock, make investments, create
liens, enter into certain transactions with affiliates and sell certain assets
or merge with or into other companies. These restrictions could adversely
affect the

 

11












Table of Contents

 

Company’s
ability to operate its businesses and may limit its ability to take advantage
of potential business opportunities as they arise.

 

Failure
to comply with these or other covenants and restrictions contained in the
secured credit agreement, the indentures or agreements governing other
indebtedness could result in a default under those agreements, and the debt
under those agreements, together with accrued interest, could then be declared
immediately due and payable. If a default occurs under the secured credit
agreement, the Company could no longer request borrowings under the agreement,
and the lenders could cause all of the outstanding debt obligations under such
secured credit agreement to become due and payable, which would result in a
default under a number of other outstanding debt securities and could lead to
an acceleration of obligations related to these debt securities. A default
under the secured credit agreement, indentures or agreements governing other
indebtedness could also lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt
instruments that contain cross acceleration or cross-default provisions.

 

International Operations — The Company is subject to risks
associated with operating in foreign countries.

 

The Company operates
manufacturing and other facilities throughout the world.  Net sales from international operations
totaled approximately $5.2 billion, representing approximately 73% of the
Company’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009.  As a result of its international operations,
the Company is subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries,
including:

·      Political, social and economic
instability;

·      War, civil disturbance or acts of
terrorism;

·      Taking of property by nationalization or
expropriation without fair compensation;

·      Changes in government policies and
regulations;

·      Devaluations and fluctuations in currency
exchange rates;

·      Imposition of limitations on conversions
of foreign currencies into dollars or remittance of dividends and other
payments by foreign subsidiaries;

·      Imposition or increase of withholding and
other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;

·      Hyperinflation in certain foreign
countries; and

·      Impositions or increase of investment and
other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments.

 

The risks associated with
operating in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on
operations.

 

Competition
— The Company faces intense competition from other glass container producers,
as well as from makers of alternative forms of packaging.  Competitive pressures could adversely affect
the Company’s financial health.

 

The Company is subject to
significant competition from other glass container producers, as well as from
makers of alternative forms of packaging, such as aluminum cans and plastic
containers.  The Company competes with
each rigid packaging competitor on the basis of price, quality, service and the
marketing attributes of the container. 
Advantages or disadvantages in any of these competitive factors may be
sufficient to cause the customer to consider changing suppliers and/or using an
alternative form of packaging. The adverse effects of consumer purchasing
decisions may be more significant in periods of economic downturn and may lead
to longer term reductions in consumer spending on glass packaged products. The
Company also competes with manufacturers of non-rigid packaging alternatives,
including flexible pouches and aseptic cartons, in serving the packaging needs
of certain end-use markets, including juice customers.

 

12












Table
of Contents

 

Pressures from
competitors and producers of alternative forms of packaging have resulted in
excess capacity in certain countries in the past and have led to capacity
adjustments and significant pricing pressures in the rigid packaging market.

 

High
Energy Costs — Higher energy costs worldwide and interrupted power supplies may
have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Electrical power, natural
gas, and fuel oil are vital to the Company’s operations as it relies on a
continuous power supply to conduct its business.  Depending on the location and mix of energy
sources, energy accounts for 15% to 25% of total production costs.  Substantial increases and volatility in
energy costs could cause the Company to experience a significant increase in
operating costs, which may have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Economic
Environment - The Company may be adversely affected by the current economic
environment.

 

As a result of
severely weak credit market conditions (including uncertainties with respect to
financial institutions, and severely diminished liquidity and credit
availability), volatility in energy costs and other macro-economic challenges
currently affecting many of the economies in which the Company operates,
customers or vendors may experience serious cash flow problems and as a result,
may modify, delay, or curtail plans to purchase the Company’s products and
vendors may significantly and quickly increase their prices or reduce their
output.  Additionally, if customers are
not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing
financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts
receivable that are owed to the Company. 
Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay the Company
for its products may adversely affect the Company’s earnings and cash
flow.  If the economic conditions in the
Company’s key markets deteriorate further, the Company may experience material
adverse impacts to its business and operating results.

 

Business
Integration Risks — The Company may not be able to effectively integrate
additional businesses it acquires in the future.

 

The Company may consider
strategic transactions, including acquisitions that will complement, strengthen
and enhance growth in its worldwide glass operations.  The Company evaluates opportunities on a
preliminary basis from time to time, but these transactions may not advance
beyond the preliminary stages or be completed. 
Such acquisitions are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including:

·      The inability to integrate effectively the
operations, products, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies
(some of which are located in diverse geographic regions) and achieve expected
synergies;

·      The potential disruption of existing
business and diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations;

·      The inability to maintain uniform
standards, controls, procedures and policies;

·      The need or obligation to divest portions
of the acquired companies; and

·      The potential impairment of relationships
with customers.

 

In addition, the Company
cannot make assurances that the integration and consolidation of newly acquired
businesses will achieve any anticipated cost savings and operating synergies.

 

13












Table of Contents

 

Customer
Consolidation — The continuing consolidation of the Company’s customer base may
intensify pricing pressures and have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Beginning in the early
1990s, many of the Company’s largest customers have acquired companies with
similar or complementary product lines. 
This consolidation has increased the concentration of the Company’s
business with its largest customers.  In
many cases, such consolidation has been accompanied by pressure from customers
for lower prices, reflecting the increase in the total volume of products
purchased or the elimination of a price differential between the acquiring
customer and the company acquired. 
Increased pricing pressures from the Company’s customers may have a
material adverse effect on operations.

 

Seasonality
and Raw Materials — Profitability could be affected by varied seasonal demands
and the availability of raw materials.

 

Due principally to the
seasonal nature of the consumption of beer and other beverages, for which
demand is stronger during the summer months, sales of the Company’s products
have varied and are expected to vary by quarter.  Shipments in the U.S. and Europe are
typically greater in the second and third quarters of the year, while shipments
in the Asia Pacific region are typically greater in the first and fourth
quarters of the year, and shipments in South America are typically greater in
the third and fourth quarters of the year. 
Unseasonably cool weather during peak demand periods can reduce demand
for certain beverages packaged in the Company’s containers.

 

The raw materials that
the Company uses have historically been available in adequate supply from multiple
sources.  For certain raw materials,
however, there may be temporary shortages due to weather or other factors,
including disruptions in supply caused by raw material transportation or
production delays.  These shortages, as
well as material volatility in the cost of any of the principal raw materials
that the Company uses, may have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Environmental
Risks — The Company is subject to various environmental legal requirements and
may be subject to new legal requirements in the future.  These requirements may have a material
adverse effect on operations.

 

The Company’s operations
and properties, both in the U.S. and abroad, are subject to extensive laws,
ordinances, regulations and other legal requirements relating to environmental
protection, including legal requirements governing investigation and clean-up
of contaminated properties as well as water discharges, air emissions, waste
management and workplace health and safety. 
Such legal requirements frequently change and vary among
jurisdictions.  The Company’s operations
and properties, both in the U.S. and abroad, must comply with these legal
requirements.  These requirements may
have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

The Company has incurred,
and expects to incur, costs for its operations to comply with environmental
legal requirements, and these costs could increase in the future.  Many environmental legal requirements provide
for substantial fines, orders (including orders to cease operations), and
criminal sanctions for violations.  These
legal requirements may apply to conditions at properties that the Company
presently or formerly owned or operated, as well as at other properties for
which the Company may be responsible, including those at which wastes attributable
to the Company were disposed.  A
significant order or judgment against the Company, the loss of a significant
permit or license or the imposition of a significant fine may have a material
adverse effect on operations.

 

14












Table of Contents

 

A number of governmental
authorities both in the U.S. and abroad have enacted, or are considering, legal
requirements that would mandate certain rates of recycling, the use of recycled
materials and/or limitations on certain kinds of packaging materials.  In addition, some companies with packaging
needs have responded to such developments and/or perceived environmental
concerns of consumers by using containers made in whole or in part of recycled
materials.  Such developments may reduce
the demand for some of the Company’s products and/or increase the Company’s
costs, which may have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Labor
Relations — Some of the Company’s employees are unionized or represented by
workers’ councils.

 

The Company is party to a
number of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions which at December 31,
2009, covered approximately 78% of the Company’s employees in North America.
Approximately 54% of employees in South America are unionized, although
according to the labor legislation of each country, 100% of employees are
covered by collective bargaining agreements. 
The agreement covering substantially all of the Company’s
union-affiliated employees in its U.S. glass container operations expires on March
31, 2011.  Agreements in South America
typically have an average term of approximately 2-3 years.  Upon the expiration of any collective
bargaining agreement, if the Company is unable to negotiate acceptable
contracts with labor unions, it could result in strikes by the affected workers
and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to
union members. In addition, a large number of the Company’s employees are
employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or
other rights to employees than the laws of the U.S.  Such employment rights require the Company to
work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect
any changes to labor arrangements.  For
example, most of the Company’s employees in Europe are represented by workers’
councils that must approve any changes in conditions of employment, including
salaries and benefits and staff changes, and may impede efforts to restructure
the Company’s workforce.  Although the
Company believes that it has a good working relationship with its employees, if
the Company’s employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, the
Company could experience a significant disruption of operations and/or higher
ongoing labor costs, which may have a material adverse effect on operations.

 

Accounting
— The Company’s financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that
may differ from actual results.

 

In preparing the
Company’s consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, several estimates and assumptions are made that
affect the accounting for and recognition of assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses.  These estimates and
assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the
preparation of the Company’s financial statements is dependent on future
events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available
or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted
methodologies.  In some cases, these
estimates are particularly difficult to determine and the Company must exercise
significant judgment.  The Company
believes that accounting for long-lived assets, pension benefit plans,
contingencies and litigation, and income taxes involves the more significant
judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial
statements.  Actual results for all
estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that the
Company uses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition and results of operations.

 

15












Table of
Contents

 

Accounting Standards — The adoption of new accounting
standards or interpretations could adversely impact the Company’s financial
results.

 

The
Company’s implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules and
interpretations could adversely affect its operating results or cause
unanticipated fluctuations in its results in future periods.  The accounting rules and regulations that the
Company must comply with are complex and continually changing.  Recent actions and public comments from the
SEC have focused on the integrity of financial reporting generally.  The Financial Accounting Standards Board has
recently introduced several new or proposed accounting standards, or is
developing new proposed standards, which would represent a significant change
from current industry practices.  In
addition, many companies’ accounting policies are being subjected to heightened
scrutiny by regulators and the public. 
While the Company believes that its financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the
Company cannot predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or
its accounting policies on its financial statements going forward.

 

Goodwill
— A significant write down of goodwill would have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s reported results of operations and net worth.

 

Goodwill
at December 31, 2009 totaled $2,381.0 million. 
The Company evaluates goodwill annually (or more frequently if
impairment indicators arise) for impairment using the required business
valuation methods.  These methods include
the use of a weighted average cost of capital to calculate the present value of
the expected future cash flows of the Company’s reporting units.  Future changes in the cost of capital,
expected cash flows, or other factors may cause the Company’s goodwill to be
impaired, resulting in a non-cash charge against results of operations to write
down goodwill for the amount of the impairment. 
If a significant write down is required, the charge would have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s reported results of operations and net
worth.

 

Pension
Funding — Declines in the fair value of the assets of the pension plans
sponsored by the Company could require increased funding.

 

The Company’s defined
benefit pension plans in the U.S. and several other countries are funded
through qualified trusts that hold investments in a broad range of equity and
debt securities.  Deterioration in the
value of such investments, or reductions driven by a decline in securities
markets or otherwise, could increase the underfunded status of the Company’s
funded pension plans, thereby increasing its obligation to make contributions
to the plans as required by the laws and regulations governing each plan.  An obligation to make contributions to
pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other
corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations,
financial condition and liquidity.

 


 
  
  ITEM 1B