Item 1A. Risk Factors. When used in this report, the words
    “expects,” “anticipates,”
    “intends,” “plans,” “believes,”
    “seeks,” “estimates” and similar expressions
    are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
    You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking
    statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of
    this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly
    release any revisions to the forward-looking statements after
    the date of this document. You should carefully review the risk
    factors described in other documents we file from time to time
    with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including
    the Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q
    to be filed by us in our 2009 fiscal year, which runs from
    June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2009.


 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    We are the world’s largest enterprise software company. We
    develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database
    and middleware software as well as applications software
    designed to help our customers manage and grow their business
    operations.


 


    Our goal is to offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and
    integrated software solutions that improve transactional
    efficiencies, adapt to an organization’s unique needs and
    allow better ways to access and manage information at a lower
    total cost of ownership. We seek to be an industry leader in
    each of the specific product categories in which we compete and
    to expand into new and emerging markets.


 


    We believe our internal or organic growth and continued
    innovation with respect to our core database, middleware and
    applications technologies provide the foundation for our
    long-term strategic plan. In fiscal 2008, we invested
    $2.7 billion on research and development to enhance our
    existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new
    products, features and services.


 


    An active acquisition program is another important element of
    our corporate strategy. Over the last four fiscal years, we have
    invested billions of dollars, including $9.4 billion in
    fiscal 2008, to acquire a number of complementary companies,
    products, services and technologies such as BEA Systems, Inc. in
    fiscal 2008, Hyperion Solutions Corporation in fiscal 2007,
    Siebel Systems, Inc. in fiscal 2006 and PeopleSoft, Inc. in
    fiscal 2005. We believe our acquisition program supports our
    long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive
    position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to
    accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and
    increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire
    companies, products, services and technologies.


 


    Oracle Corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a Delaware
    corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun
    in June 1977.


 



    Software
    and Services


 


    We are organized into two businesses, software and services,
    which are further divided into five operating segments. Our
    software business is comprised of two operating segments:
    (1) new software licenses and (2) software license
    updates and product support. Our services business is comprised
    of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) On
    Demand and (3) education. Our software and services
    businesses represented 80% and 20% of our total revenues,
    respectively, in both fiscal 2008 and 2006, and 79% and 21% of
    our total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2007. See
    Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional information related to our operating segments.



    
    1



Table of Contents





    Software
    Business


 



    New
    Software Licenses


 


    New software licenses include the licensing of database and
    middleware software, which consists of Oracle Databases and
    Oracle Fusion Middleware, as well as applications software. Our
    technology and business solutions are based on an internet model
    comprised of interconnected databases, application servers, as
    well as mobile devices. This architecture enables users to
    access business data and applications through a web browser
    interface, while providing customers the most efficient and cost
    effective method of managing business information and
    applications.


 


    In an internet model, database servers manage and protect the
    underlying business information, while application servers run
    the business applications that automate a myriad of business
    functions. We have focused on concepts such as global single
    instance application deployment that involve fewer, high quality
    databases of important business information. Our architecture
    provides high quality business information and can be adapted to
    the specific needs of any industry or application. Oracle
    technology operates on both single server and clustered server
    configurations, which we refer to as “grid” software,
    and supports a choice of operating systems including Linux,
    Windows and UNIX.


 


    New software license revenues include fees earned from granting
    customers licenses to use our software products and exclude
    revenues derived from software license updates and product
    support. The standard end user software license agreement for
    our products provides for an initial fee to use the product in
    perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users
    or other metrics. We also have other types of software license
    agreements restricted by the number of employees or the license
    term. New software license revenues represented 34%, 33% and 34%
    of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.


 



    Database
    and Middleware Software


 


    Our database and middleware software provides a cost-effective,
    high-performance platform for running and managing business
    applications for mid-size businesses and large global
    enterprises. With an increasing focus by enterprises on reducing
    their total cost of information technology (IT) infrastructure,
    our software is designed to accommodate demanding, non-stop
    business environments, using clusters of low cost servers and
    storage that can incrementally scale as required. The ability to
    assign computing resources as required simplifies our
    customers’ computing capacity, planning and procurement in
    order to support all of their business applications. With an
    Oracle grid infrastructure, our customers can lower their
    investment in IT hardware, reduce their risk of IT
    infrastructure downtime and more easily cope with sudden
    increases in demand on their IT environments during high traffic
    periods. New software license revenues from database and
    middleware products represented 68%, 71% and 73% of our new
    software license revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.


 



    Databases


 


    As the world’s most popular database, Oracle Database
    enables the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all
    forms of data, including business application and analytics
    data, and unstructured data in the form of XML files, office
    documents, images, video and spatial data. Designed for
    enterprise grid computing, the Oracle Database is available in
    four editions: Express Edition, Standard Edition One, Standard
    Edition and Enterprise Edition. All editions are built using the
    same underlying code, which means that our database software can
    easily scale from small, single processor servers to clusters of
    multi-processor servers.


 


    Options to Oracle Database Enterprise Edition are available to
    meet specific requirements in the areas of performance and
    scalability, high availability, data security and compliance,
    data warehousing, unstructured data integration and systems
    management. Examples of these options include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Real Application Clusters, which consolidates a single,
    scalable and fault tolerant database that is shared across
    interconnected clusters of servers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Partitioning, which breaks down large transaction
    processing and business intelligence database tables into
    smaller segments for faster query performance and easier
    management of data throughout its lifecycle;






    
    2



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Warehouse Builder Enterprise and Data Quality Options,
    which help customers design, build and populate data warehouses
    with reliable, quality information from a variety of legacy
    repositories; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle In-Memory Database Cache, a new option that improves
    application performance by caching or storing performance
    critical parts of Oracle Database in the main memory of the
    application tier.





 


    In addition to the four editions of Oracle Database, Oracle also
    offers a selection of specialized databases:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Oracle TimesTen In-Memory Database, which is a memory-optimized
    relational database that delivers low latency and high
    throughput for applications requiring real-time performance;




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Berkeley DB, which is a family of open source,
    embeddable, non-relational databases that allows developers to
    incorporate a fast, scalable and reliable database engine within
    their applications; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Database Lite, which is a comprehensive solution for
    developing, deploying and managing applications for mobile and
    embedded environments. It consists of a small footprint
    relational database that runs on many devices and platforms, a
    mobile server that synchronizes data between the mobile devices
    and Oracle Database, and mobile application development tools.





 


    We also offer products that are complementary to our database
    product offerings, including Oracle Enterprise Manager and
    Oracle Audit Vault.


 



    Enterprise
    Manager
    


 


    Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to deliver top-down
    applications and software infrastructure management. Our
    customers use Oracle Enterprise Manager to monitor and manage
    their applications and underlying software infrastructure,
    including both Oracle and non-Oracle infrastructure products.
    Oracle Enterprise Manager can be used to manage packaged
    applications, such as Siebel, PeopleSoft, Oracle
    E-Business
    Suite or custom applications including Service-Oriented
    Architecture applications. In addition to managing Oracle
    software infrastructure products including the Oracle Database
    and Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle Enterprise Manager also
    supports our recently acquired BEA Web Logic Server middleware
    product and other third-party infrastructure products.


 


    Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to monitor service levels
    and performance, automate tasks, manage configuration
    information, and provide change management in a unified way
    across groups of computers or grids. Oracle Enterprise
    Manager’s provisioning automates the discovery, tracking
    and scheduling of software patches and allows IT administrators
    to apply patches without taking their system down. Additionally,
    IT administrators can manage systems from anywhere through an
    HTML browser or through wireless PDAs.


 



    Audit Vault
    


 


    Oracle Audit Vault reduces the cost and complexity of compliance
    reporting and of detection of unauthorized activities by
    automating the collection and consolidation of enterprise audit
    data. Oracle Database provides one of the most advanced auditing
    capabilities of any database management system. With Audit
    Vault, security and database administrators can manage audit
    policies across their enterprise and automatically collect audit
    data into a centralized, tamper resistant repository. This
    secure repository is built on Oracle’s scalable
    architecture to allow retention and aggregation of terabytes of
    audit data for analysis and reporting. Audit Vault analyzes
    audit data in real-time based upon enterprise defined policies,
    issues alerts for unauthorized activities, and provides built-in
    reports for demonstrating the IT controls required to comply
    with internal control assessments, including provisions of the
    U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other data privacy and
    protection regulations.


 



    Middleware


 


    Oracle Fusion Middleware is a broad product family that forms a
    reliable and scalable foundation on which customers can build,
    deploy and integrate business applications and automate their
    business processes. Oracle Fusion Middleware includes:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Application Server;




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Business Intelligence Suite;




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Identity and Access Management Suite;






    
    3



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Enterprise Content Management Suite;




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle WebCenter;




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle JDeveloper and Oracle Service-Oriented Architecture
    Suite; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Data Integration Suite.





 


    Oracle Fusion Middleware is designed to protect customers’
    IT investments and work with both Oracle and non-Oracle
    database, middleware and applications products through its
    “hot-pluggable” architecture (which enables customers
    to easily install and use Oracle Fusion Middleware products
    within their existing IT environments) and adherence to industry
    standards such as J2EE and Business Process Execution Language
    (BPEL).


 


    By using Oracle Fusion Middleware, our customers increase their
    capacity to adapt to business changes rapidly, reduce their
    risks related to security and compliance, increase user
    productivity and drive better business decisions. Specifically,
    Oracle Fusion Middleware enables customers to easily integrate
    heterogeneous business applications, automate business
    processes, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycles
    of documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence,
    while continuing to utilize their existing IT systems. In
    addition, Oracle Fusion Middleware supports multiple development
    languages and tools, which allows developers to build and deploy
    web services, web sites, portals and web-based applications.
    Oracle’s Fusion Middleware is used to support Oracle
    applications, as well as other enterprise applications and
    independent software vendors that build their own custom
    applications.


 


    On April 29, 2008, we acquired BEA, a leading provider of
    enterprise application and service infrastructure software
    solutions. Our acquisition of BEA further strengthened our
    leading technology in certain product areas within Oracle Fusion
    Middleware such as Java application server (WebLogic Server),
    transaction processing (Tuxedo), portal and Enterprise 2.0
    capabilities, Service-Oriented Architecture, IT governance and
    business process management. Our acquisition of BEA also
    increased the number of Java developers building applications
    for our middleware products. Additionally, BEA’s business
    is complementary to other product areas within Oracle Fusion
    Middleware such as identity management, business intelligence
    and enterprise content management.


 



    Application
    Server
    


 


    The foundation of Oracle Fusion Middleware is Oracle Application
    Server. Designed for grid computing, Oracle Application Server
    incorporates clustering and caching technology, which increases
    application reliability, performance, security and scalability.
    Oracle Application Server also provides a complete integration
    platform that is designed to simplify and accelerate business,
    application and data integration projects. Our recent
    acquisition of BEA enables us to provide our customers with
    additional open-standards Java-based application infrastructure
    products such as WebLogic Server and scalable messaging and
    transaction processing platform products such as Tuxedo.


 



    Business
    Intelligence
    


 


    Oracle Business Intelligence (BI) provides visibility into how
    customers’ businesses are performing and helps them plan
    and model to improve that performance. BI is a portfolio of
    technology and applications that provides an integrated
    end-to-end system called Enterprise Performance Management (EPM)
    that unites our BI foundation and data warehousing products with
    our BI and EPM applications (described further below) to offer
    our customers an enterprise-wide business intelligence platform.


 


    Our BI foundation products include Oracle BI
    Suite Enterprise Edition Plus, Oracle BI Standard Edition
    One, Hyperion Essbase and Oracle BI Publisher. Our BI foundation
    products deliver customers a comprehensive set of business
    intelligence tools, including interactive dashboards, ad hoc
    query and analysis, proactive detection and alerts, advanced
    reporting and publishing, real-time predictive intelligence,
    mobile analytics and desktop gadgets.


 


    Our data warehousing products enable the extraction,
    transformation and loading of quality data in order for that
    data to be accurately searched and analyzed.



    
    4



Table of Contents





    Identity and
    Access Management Suite
    


 


    The Oracle Identity and Access Management suite makes it easier
    for our customers to manage multiple user identities, provision
    users in multiple enterprise applications and systems and manage
    access privileges for customers, employees and partners. Our
    customers use Oracle Identity and Access Management Suite to
    secure their information from potential threats. In addition,
    our customers also use Oracle Identity and Access Management
    Suite to increase compliance levels, while lowering the total
    cost of their compliance efforts.


 



    Enterprise
    Content Management Suite
    


 


    Unstructured information, which is data that is not easily
    readable or has not been stored so that it can be used
    efficiently, makes up a large portion of all the information
    residing in most businesses and public sector entities. Oracle
    Enterprise Content Management Suite provides a comprehensive set
    of capabilities to create, capture, publish, share and
    collaborate on, archive, retain, manage business process flows
    and manage information access rights to documents and other
    unstructured content file types. Oracle Enterprise Content
    Management Suite supports an extensive set of document and image
    formats. Our Web Content Management product’s capabilities
    also enable customers to use external facing websites as
    strategic marketing assets and rapid communications channels.


 



    WebCenter
    


 


    Oracle WebCenter enables personalized, task-oriented web
    applications and portal sites to be rapidly developed and
    deployed, all with single sign-on access and security. Our
    customers can assemble portal sites using page regions or
    portlets, which are reusable interface components that provide
    access to web-based resources such as applications, business
    intelligence reports, syndicated content feeds and outsourced
    software services. Oracle WebCenter also includes integrated
    Enterprise 2.0 capabilities, which enable customers to work
    together in teams via the internet and capitalize on
    “collective intelligence” within their enterprise and
    with their partners and customers.


 



    JDeveloper
    


 


    Oracle JDeveloper is an integrated software development
    environment designed to facilitate rapid development of Java
    applications, portlets, web services, process models and Rich
    Internet Applications (RIA) such as Flash and AJAX, among
    others. Oracle JDeveloper provides a comprehensive Java
    development environment for modeling, building, debugging and
    testing enterprise-class J2EE applications and web
    services. It is also integrated with the Oracle Application
    Development Framework, which provides a framework for building
    applications, including a set of components that enable
    developers to build RIA based on Java user interface standards
    and deploy the applications to take advantage of modern RIA
    technologies.


 



    Service-Oriented
    Architecture Suite
    


 


    Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) is an information technology
    strategy which allows users to interface with Internet-based
    portals and composite applications, which in turn interface with
    several enterprise applications. Oracle SOA Suite is a complete
    set of service infrastructure components for creating,
    deploying, and managing SOAs, including Oracle JDeveloper,
    Oracle BPEL Process Manager, Oracle Web Services Manager, Oracle
    Business Rules, Oracle Business Activity Monitoring, and Oracle
    Enterprise Service Bus. Oracle SOA Suite enables services to be
    created, managed and orchestrated into composite applications
    and reconfigurable business processes, reducing development time
    and costs and increasing flexibility and response time. Oracle
    SOA Suite is “hot-pluggable”, enabling customers to
    easily extend and evolve their architectures instead of
    replacing existing investments.


 



    Data
    Integration Suite
    


 


    Through Oracle Data Integration Suite, we offer best-of-breed
    and unified data integration technologies that enable customers
    to build, deploy and manage enterprise business data. Our Data
    Integration foundation allows enterprise data architects to
    unify, manage, replicate, migrate and distribute data into
    enterprise applications and orchestrated business processes.
    With our open and “hot-pluggable” data integration
    components, organizations can continue to



    
    5



Table of Contents




    use and evolve their IT infrastructure instead of replacing it.
    The Data Integration Suite can extract data from one system and
    load it into another (such as a data warehouse) and then rapidly
    transform the data into a new format. It also includes
    technology to address data quality and data profiling.


 



    Applications
    Software


 


    Our applications software strategy is designed to provide
    customers with complete, integrated and open solutions for
    industry business process automation, supported by a robust,
    standards-based technology platform. Central to that strategy is
    our commitment to offer customers that purchase software license
    updates and product support contracts a choice as to when they
    wish to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own.
    Until our customers reach a decision to upgrade to the next
    generation of the products they own, we protect their
    investments in their applications by offering them the ability
    to purchase software license updates and product support
    contracts for their existing products. New technologies such as
    Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle Business Intelligence Suite,
    and Oracle WebCenter are designed to help customers extend the
    benefits of their IT investments in our applications, to reduce
    their investment risk, and to support their evolution to the
    next generation of enterprise software that best fits their
    needs.


 


    Our applications software products combine business
    functionality with innovative technologies such as role-based
    analytics, secure search, identity management, self-service and
    workflow to deliver adaptive industry processes, business
    intelligence and insights, and optimal end-user productivity.
    Our applications software products enable efficient management
    of all core business functions, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Customer relationship management (CRM)




 



     
        • 

    
    Enterprise performance management (EPM)




 



     
        • 

    
    Enterprise resource planning (ERP)




 



     
        • 

    
    Product lifecycle management (PLM), and




 



     
        • 

    
    Industry-specific applications.





 


    Our applications software products are offered as integrated
    suites or available on a component basis, and all are built on
    open architectures that are designed for flexible configuration
    and open, multi-vendor integration. Our applications are
    available in multiple languages, and support a broad range of
    location specific requirements, enabling companies to support
    both global and local business practices and legal requirements.


 


    Oracle Application Integration Architecture provides an open,
    standards-based framework for creating adaptable,
    cross-application business processes. For customers looking to
    quickly deploy integrations between Oracle applications, Oracle
    Application Integration Architecture also offers packaged
    integrations, allowing for rapid implementation of
    mission-critical business applications.


 



    Customer
    Relationship Management (CRM)
    


 


    We offer a complete set of CRM applications that manage all of
    the business processes and associated systems that touch a
    customer, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Billing and delivery;




 



     
        • 

    
    Sales solutions that provide a single repository for customer
    and supply chain information; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Service solutions that increase customer satisfaction by
    providing visibility into customer billing and order information.





 



    Enterprise
    Performance Management (EPM)
    


 


    We offer a full spectrum of EPM applications that are open,
    industry-specific analytic applications with capabilities such
    as interactive dashboarding and embedded analytic functionality
    for delivering insight across the enterprise. Our business
    analytics solution is tailored to 20 industries, giving
    customers the ability to monitor, analyze and act upon business
    intelligence while providing end-to-end visibility into a
    customer’s operations and financial performance. With our
    acquisition of Hyperion in fiscal 2007, we added complementary
    products to our business



    
    6



Table of Contents




    intelligence offerings, including a leading open enterprise
    planning system, financial consolidation products, and a
    multi-source OLAP server. Our acquisition of Hyperion combined
    with our BI analytics, BI foundation and data warehousing
    products enable us to offer our customers an integrated,
    end-to-end EPM system that spans planning, consolidation,
    operational analytic applications, business intelligence tools,
    reporting and data integration, all on a unified business
    intelligence platform.


 



    Enterprise
    Resource Planning (ERP)
    


 


    Companies use our ERP applications to automate and integrate a
    variety of their key global business processes, including:
    manufacturing, order entry, accounts receivable and payable,
    general ledger, purchasing, warehousing, transportation and
    human resources. Our ERP applications combine business
    functionality with innovative technologies such as workflow and
    self-service applications in order to enable companies to lower
    the cost of their business operations by providing their
    customers, suppliers and employees with self-service internet
    access to both transaction processing and critical business
    information. Our ERP applications are available in multiple
    languages and currencies, enabling companies to support both
    global and local business practices and legal requirements.


 



    Product
    Lifecycle Management (PLM)
    


 


    With our acquisition of Agile Software Corporation in the first
    quarter of fiscal 2008, we added PLM software solutions. Our PLM
    solutions manage the product innovation and introduction process
    in a variety of industries, including high technology, life
    sciences, industrial manufacturing and consumer packaged goods.
    Our PLM solutions help customers make better product portfolio
    decisions, collaborate across design and supply chain partners,
    accelerate new product introduction and manage compliance.


 



    Industry
    Applications
    


 


    Our applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of
    industry-specific solutions. As a part of our strategy, we
    strive to ensure that our applications portfolio addresses the
    major industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in
    key industries. With our acquisition of Siebel, we gained
    expertise in the vertical markets in which Siebel offered
    industry solutions. We have also expanded our offerings in a
    number of other key industries we view as strategic to our
    future growth:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Retail, with our acquisitions of Retek, Inc., ProfitLogic, Inc.
    and several other companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    Banking and financial services, with our acquisition of i-flex
    solutions limited;




 



     
        • 

    
    Communications, with our acquisitions of Portal Software, Inc.
    and MetaSolv, Inc.; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Utilities, with our acquisition of Lodestar Corporation and SPL
    WorldGroup, Inc.





 


    These acquired industry applications are in addition to industry
    applications we developed for health sciences, insurance,
    manufacturing, education, professional services and the public
    sector.


 


    We are currently building Oracle Fusion Applications, which are
    being designed to unify best-of-business capabilities from all
    Oracle applications in a complete suite. We believe this suite
    of applications will deliver a superior ownership experience
    through improved usability, adaptive business process
    automation, built-in business intelligence and industry-specific
    capabilities.


 


    New software license revenues from applications software
    represented 32%, 29% and 27% of new software license revenues in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.


 



    Software
    License Updates and Product Support


 


    We seek to protect and enhance our customers’ current
    investments in Oracle technology and applications by offering
    lifetime support, product enhancements and upgrades. Software
    license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified
    software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches
    released during the term of the support period. Product support
    includes internet and telephone access to technical support
    personnel located in our global support centers, as well as
    internet access to technical content. Software license updates
    and product



    
    7



Table of Contents




    support are generally priced as a percentage of the new software
    license fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase
    software license updates and product support when they acquire
    new software licenses. In addition, substantially all of our
    customers renew their software license updates and product
    support contracts annually. We also offer Oracle Unbreakable
    Linux Support, which provides enterprise level support for the
    Linux operating system and, in fiscal 2008, we introduced
    support for Oracle VM server virtualization software.


 


    Our software license updates and product support revenues
    represented 46% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006.


 



    Services
    Business


 



    Consulting


 


    Oracle Consulting assists our customers in successfully
    deploying our applications and technology products. Our
    consulting services include business strategy and analysis;
    business process optimization; product implementation,
    enhancements, and upgrades; and ongoing managed services. These
    services help our customers achieve measurable business results,
    manage their total cost of ownership and reduce their deployment
    risk.


 


    Oracle Consulting deploys professionals globally utilizing our
    blended delivery capabilities, including use of onsite
    consultants and personnel from our global delivery centers and
    applications solutions centers to leverage economies of scale
    for our customers. Consulting revenues represented 15%, 16% and
    15% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.


 



    On
    Demand


 


    On Demand includes Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and Advanced
    Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured
    software and hardware management, and maintenance services for
    customers that deploy over the internet our database, middleware
    and applications software delivered either at our data center
    facilities, at select partner data centers or at customer
    facilities. CRM On Demand is a service offering that provides
    our customers with our CRM software functionality delivered via
    a hosted, web-based solution that we manage. Advanced Customer
    Services consists of solution support centers, business critical
    assistance, technical account management, expert services,
    configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and
    annual
    on-site
    technical services. On Demand revenues represented 3% of total
    revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006.


 



    Education


 


    We provide training to customers, partners and employees as a
    part of our mission of accelerating the adoption of our
    technology around the world. We currently offer thousands of
    courses covering all of our product offerings. Our training is
    provided primarily through public and private instructor-led
    classroom events, but is also made available through a variety
    of online courses and self paced media training on CD-ROMs. In
    addition, we also offer a certification program certifying
    database administrators, developers and implementers. Oracle
    University also offers user adoption services designed to
    provide comprehensive training services to help customers get
    the most out of their investment in Oracle. Our acquisition of
    BEA further enhanced our educational offerings in middleware.
    Education revenues represented 2% of total revenues in fiscal
    2008, 2007 and 2006.


 



    Marketing
    and Sales


 



    Sales
    Distribution Channels


 


    We directly market and sell our products and services primarily
    through our subsidiary sales and service organizations. In the
    United States our sales and service employees are based in our
    headquarters and in field offices throughout the United States.
    Outside the United States, our international subsidiaries
    license and support our products in their local countries as
    well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate
    through a direct sales subsidiary.


 


    We also market our products worldwide through indirect channels.
    The companies that comprise our indirect channel network are
    members of the Oracle PartnerNetwork. The Oracle PartnerNetwork
    is a global program that



    
    8



Table of Contents




    manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based
    network of companies, including independent software vendors,
    system integrators and resellers who deliver innovative
    solutions and services based upon our products. By offering our
    partners’ access to our premier products, educational
    information, technical services, marketing and sales support,
    the Oracle PartnerNetwork program extends our market reach by
    providing our partners with the resources they need to be
    successful in delivering solutions to customers globally.


 



    International
    Markets


 


    We sell our products and provide services globally. Our
    geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical
    expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our
    operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific
    economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage
    of new markets for our products. A summary of our domestic and
    international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in
    Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Seasonality
    and Cyclicality


 


    Our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale
    of our products and services, as our revenues are typically
    highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first
    fiscal quarter. General economic conditions also have an impact
    on our business and financial results. The markets in which we
    sell our products and services have, at times, experienced weak
    economic conditions that have negatively affected our revenues.
    See “Selected Quarterly Financial Data” in Item 7
    of this Annual Report for a more complete description of the
    seasonality and cyclicality of our revenues and expenses.


 



    Customers


 


    Our customer base consists of a significant number of businesses
    of many sizes and industries, government agencies, educational
    institutions and resellers. No single customer accounted for 10%
    or more of revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006.


 



    Competition


 


    The enterprise software industry is highly fragmented, intensely
    competitive and evolving rapidly. We compete in various segments
    of this industry including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    database software;




 



     
        • 

    
    middleware (including application server, business intelligence,
    application integration, content management, portal server and
    identity management);




 



     
        • 

    
    collaboration;




 



     
        • 

    
    development tools;




 



     
        • 

    
    enterprise applications;




 



     
        • 

    
    software as a service;




 



     
        • 

    
    hosted and On Demand solutions;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    virtualization software; and




 



     
        • 

    
    consulting/systems integration.





 


    Total cost of ownership, performance, scalability,
    functionality, ease of use, open standards-compliance, product
    reliability, Service-Oriented Architecture, security and quality
    of technical support are key competitive factors in each of the
    areas in which we compete. Our customers are also demanding less
    complexity and lower cost in the implementation, sourcing,
    integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise
    software, which has led increasingly to our product offerings
    (database, middleware and applications) being viewed as a
    “stack” of software designed to work together.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    Our product sales (and the relative strength of our products
    versus our competitors’ products) are also affected by the
    broader “platform” competition between industry
    standard Java (J2EE) by Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun
    Microsystems) and Microsoft Corporation’s .NET programming
    environments and by operating system competition among
    Microsoft’s Windows Server, Unix (Sun Microsystem’s
    Solaris, Hewlett Packard Company’s (HP)-UX and
    International Business Machines Corporation’s (IBM)-AIX)
    and Linux. Open source alternatives to commercial software are
    also impacting the competitive environment. These products are
    typically offered free of charge and are readily available over
    the internet. Finally, software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings
    continue to alter the competitive landscape.


 


    The following lists of competitors are necessarily incomplete
    due to the nature of the enterprise software industry. The
    competitive landscape is constantly evolving as firms emerge,
    expand, are acquired and otherwise change.


 


    In the sale of database software, scalability, reliability,
    availability and security are key competitive differentiators
    for us. Our competitors include IBM, Microsoft, Sybase, Inc.,
    NCR Corporation’s Teradata division, SAS Institute, Inc.,
    Informatica Corporation, and the open source databases such as
    MySQL (recently acquired by Sun Microsystems) and PostgreSQL,
    among others. Our ability to continually innovate and
    differentiate our database product offerings has enabled us to
    maintain our leading position in database software over our
    competitors.


 


    In the sale of middleware products, our offerings include
    application server, business intelligence, application
    integration, business process management, Service-Oriented
    Architecture, collaboration and content management, portal, and
    identity management software. Our ability to offer a full range
    of rich functionality in a standards-based, open architecture
    has been a key competitive differentiator. Our competitors
    include IBM, Microsoft, SAP AG, Sun Microsystems, Progress
    Software, Fujitsu Software Corporation, Hitachi Software
    Engineering Co., Ltd., open source vendors such as Red Hat, Inc.
    (JBoss), Apache Geronimo, and Netezza Corporation, as well as
    several other competitors in each element of our packaged
    functions such as TIBCO Software, Inc., Software AG, Savvion,
    Inc., Microstrategy, Inc., CA, Inc., Informatica, Novell, Inc.,
    Lombardi Software, Inc. and Pegasystems, Inc., among others. Our
    middleware solutions have experienced rapid growth in recent
    years relative to our competitors.


 


    In the sale of collaboration and content management products, we
    compete with Microsoft, IBM (Domino/Notes/FileNet), EMC
    Corporation (Documentum), Open Text Corporation, Interwoven,
    Inc., HP (Tower Software) and Vignette Corporation, among others.


 


    In the sale of development tools, ease of use,
    standards-compliance and the level of abstraction (automated
    code generation) are key competitive differentiators. We compete
    against IBM (WebSphere Studio), Microsoft (VisualStudio.NET),
    Sun Microsystems (Sun Studio), Sybase (PowerBuilder) and others,
    including Eclipse Foundation, Inc. (Eclipse), an open source
    vendor. The success of our development tools is closely related
    to the relative popularity of our platform (database and
    middleware) compared to our competitors as well as the larger
    competition between Java and Microsoft’s .NET.


 


    The sale of applications software, in particular, is changing
    rapidly due to the development and deployment of
    Service-Oriented Architectures and web services, application
    integration middleware as well as software as a service
    offerings. As a result of our acquisitions of PeopleSoft and
    Siebel, we currently offer several product lines that are suited
    for different needs of customers in different industries. One of
    the main competitive differentiators in applications software is
    our ability to combine best-of-breed software, Suite software
    and our Application Integration Architecture, while shielding
    the end user from complexities. We compete against SAP AG,
    Lawson Software, Inc., Infor Global Solutions GmbH (SSA Global
    Technologies, Extensity), Microsoft Dynamics (Dynamics GP,
    Dynamics NAV, Dynamics CRM, Dynamics Snap, Dynamics SL), Sage,
    Inc., and IBM (Maximo, MOR Software, Ascential Software) as well
    as many other application providers and point solution providers.


 


    We also provide applications specific to operations in
    particular industry verticals, such as retailing, financial
    services, communications, tax and utilities, health sciences,
    public sector and others. These applications are distinguished
    from enterprise resource planning (ERP) or customer relationship
    management (CRM) in that these industry-specific applications
    are focused on and limited to particular industry segments, as
    opposed to being designed for broad distribution across several
    industries. We typically compete with commercial software
    vendors’ pre-packaged applications, applications developed
    in-house by customers, applications which were custom developed
    by other software vendors and applications consisting of
    discrete pieces of functionality from multiple



    
    10



Table of Contents




    providers which have been customized and implemented by systems
    integrators. In some of these industries, complete industry
    solutions either do not exist or are addressed by dozens of
    software participants.


 


    With service-oriented architecture, our packaged applications
    also compete with custom solutions developed either in-house or
    by large systems integrators such as Accenture Ltd. or IBM
    Global Services.


 


    Our applications also compete against business process
    outsourcers including Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Fidelity
    Investments, Ceridian Corporation, Hewitt-Cyborg Limited and
    others.


 


    In the sale of operating systems, we introduced a support and
    service offering for Red Hat’s open source Linux operating
    system in fiscal 2007. This placed us in competition with others
    who offer support for the Linux operating system, including Red
    Hat, Novell and Canonical Ltd. (Ubuntu); with IBM, Sun
    Microsystems, HP and others in the sale of Unix operating
    systems; and with Microsoft in the sale of Windows Server
    operating systems.


 


    In the sale of virtualization products, we compete with VMware,
    Inc., IBM, Microsoft, Sun Microsystems and Citrix Systems, Inc.,
    among others, including other vendors of open source
    virtualization products.


 


    In the sale of consulting and systems integration services, we
    both partner with and compete against Accenture, Electronic Data
    Systems Corporation (to be acquired by HP), IBM Global Services,
    Bearing Point, Inc., CapGemini Group, and many others (both
    large and small).


 


    In the sale of many of our products, we also compete with
    products and features developed internally by customers and
    their IT staff.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We develop the substantial majority of our products internally.
    In addition, we have acquired technology through business
    acquisitions. We also purchase or license intellectual property
    rights in certain circumstances. Internal development allows us
    to maintain technical control over the design and development of
    our products. We have a number of United States and foreign
    patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects
    of our products and technology. While we believe that our
    patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to
    any of our principal business segments.


 


    Research and development expenditures were $2.7 billion,
    $2.2 billion and $1.9 billion, or 12%, 12% and 13% of
    total revenues, in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As
    a percentage of new software license revenues, research and
    development expenditures were 36%, 37% and 38% in fiscal 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Rapid technological advances in
    hardware and software development, evolving standards in
    computer hardware and software technology, changing customer
    needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements
    characterize the software markets in which we compete. We plan
    on continuing to dedicate a significant amount of resources to
    research and development efforts to maintain and improve our
    current product offerings including our database, middleware and
    applications software products.


 



    Employees


 


    As of May 31, 2008, we employed 84,233 full-time
    employees, including 19,465 in sales and marketing, 7,642 in
    software license updates and product support, 28,215 in
    services, 20,607 in research and development and 8,304 in
    general and administrative positions. Of these employees, 28,079
    were located in the United States and 56,154 were employed
    internationally. None of our employees in the United States is
    represented by a labor union; however, in certain international
    subsidiaries workers’ councils represent our employees.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a)
    and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    are available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations web
    site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
    furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
    information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this
    Annual Report.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Our executive officers are listed below.


 




     	
     	
     	




    Name


 


    Office(s)



 





    Lawrence J. Ellison



 


    Chief Executive Officer and Director





    Jeffrey O. Henley



 


    Chairman of the Board of Directors





    Safra A. Catz



 


    President, Chief Financial Officer and Director





    Charles E. Phillips, Jr. 



 


    President and Director





    Keith G. Block



 


    Executive Vice President, North America Sales and Consulting





    Sergio Giacoletto



 


    Executive Vice President, Europe, Middle East and Africa Sales
    and Consulting





    Juergen Rottler



 


    Executive Vice President, Oracle Customer Services





    Charles A. Rozwat



 


    Executive Vice President, Product Development





    Derek H. Williams



 


    Executive Vice President, Japan Sales and Consulting





    Dorian E. Daley



 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary





    William Corey West



 


    Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting
    Officer








 


    Mr. Ellison, 63, has been Chief Executive Officer and a
    Director since he founded Oracle in June 1977. He served as
    Chairman of the Board from May 1995 to January 2004.


 


    Mr. Henley, 63, has served as the Chairman of the Board
    since January 2004 and as a director since June 1995. He served
    as an Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from
    March 1991 to July 2004. He also serves as a director of
    Callwave, Inc.


 


    Ms. Catz, 46, has been Chief Financial Officer since
    November 2005 and a President since January 2004. She has served
    as a Director since October 2001. She was Interim Chief
    Financial Officer from April 2005 until July 2005. She served as
    an Executive Vice President from November 1999 to January 2004
    and Senior Vice President from April 1999 to October 1999. She
    also serves as a director of HSBC Holdings plc.


 


    Mr. Phillips, 49, has been a President and has served as a
    Director since January 2004. He served as Executive Vice
    President, Strategy, Partnerships, and Business Development,
    from May 2003 to January 2004. He also serves as a director of
    Morgan Stanley and Viacom, Inc.


 


    Mr. Block, 47, has been Executive Vice President, North
    America Sales and Consulting since September 2002 and Executive
    Vice President, North America Consulting since February 2002. He
    served as Senior Vice President of North America Commercial
    Consulting and Global Service Lines from June 1999 until January
    2002. He served as Senior Vice President of the Commercial
    Consulting Practice from April 1999 until May 1999.
    Mr. Block was Group Vice President, East Consulting from
    June 1997 until March 1999.


 


    Mr. Giacoletto, 58, has been Executive Vice President,
    Europe, Middle East and Africa Sales and Consulting since June
    2000 and served as Senior Vice President, Business Solutions
    from November 1998 to June 2000. He was Vice President,
    Alliances and Technology from March 1997 to November 1998.
    Before joining us, he had been President of AT&T Solutions
    for Europe since August 1994.


 


    Mr. Rottler, 41, has been Executive Vice President, Oracle
    Customer Services since September 2006. He was Executive Vice
    President, Oracle Support and Oracle On Demand, from January
    2005 to September 2006 and was Executive Vice President, Oracle
    On Demand, from September 2004 to January 2005. Prior to joining
    us, he served as Senior Vice President, Public Sector, Customer
    Solutions Group at Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), from December
    2003 to September 2004, where he was responsible for HP’s
    worldwide Public Sector, Health and Education business. He also
    held various other global and regional executive positions in
    HP’s Services and Software business units since 1997.


 


    Mr. Rozwat, 60, has been Executive Vice President, Product
    Development, since October 2007. He served as Executive Vice
    President, Server Technologies from November 1999 to October
    2007 and served as Senior Vice President, Database Server from
    December 1996 to October 1999. He served as Vice President of
    Development from December 1994 to November 1996.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    Mr. Williams, 63, has been Executive Vice President, Japan
    Sales and Consulting since June 2008 and was Executive Vice
    President, Asia Pacific Sales and Consulting from October 2000
    to May 2008. He served as Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific
    from July 1993 to October 2000 and as Vice President, Asia
    Pacific from April 1991 to July 1993. He joined Oracle United
    Kingdom in October 1988 and served as Regional Director,
    Strategic Accounts from October 1988 to April 1991.


 


    Ms. Daley, 49, has been Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary since October 2007. She served as Vice
    President, Legal, Associate General Counsel and Assistant
    Secretary from June 2004 to October 2007, as Associate General
    Counsel and Assistant Secretary from October 2001 to June 2004,
    and as Associate General Counsel from February 2001 to October
    2001. She joined Oracle’s Legal Department in 1992.


 


    Mr. West, 46, has been Senior Vice President, Corporate
    Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2008 and
    was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting
    Officer from April 2007 to February 2008. Prior to joining us,
    he served as Intuit Inc.’s Director of Accounting from
    August 2005 to March 2007, as The Gap, Inc.’s Assistant
    Controller from April 2005 to August 2005, and as Vice
    President, Finance, at Cadence Design Systems, Inc.’s
    product business from June 2001 to April 2005. He also spent
    14 years with Arthur Andersen LLP, most recently as a
    partner.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological
    environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are
    driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The
    following discussion, as well as our “Critical Accounting
    Policies and Estimates” discussion in Item 7,
    highlights some of these risks.


 


    Economic, political and market conditions can adversely
    affect our revenue growth and
    profitability.  Our business is influenced by
    a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have
    no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general economic and business conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the overall demand for enterprise software and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government
    spending priorities; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general political developments.





 


    A general weakening of, or declining corporate confidence in,
    the global economy, or a curtailment in government or corporate
    spending could delay or decrease customer purchases. In
    addition, the war on terrorism, the war in Iraq and the
    potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world,
    potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to
    contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty
    that could adversely affect our revenue growth and results of
    operations. These factors generally have the strongest effect on
    our sales of software licenses and related services and, to a
    lesser extent, also affect our renewal rates for software
    license updates and product support.


 


    We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to
    inaccurate sales forecasts or other
    factors.  Our revenues, and particularly our
    new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and,
    as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate
    substantially. We use a “pipeline” system, a common
    industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business.
    Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and
    estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the
    dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated
    periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline
    estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular
    quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the
    “conversion rate” of the pipeline into contracts can
    be very difficult to estimate. A contraction in the conversion
    rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or
    budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results
    of operations. In particular, a slowdown in IT spending or
    economic conditions generally can reduce the conversion rate in
    particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced
    in amount or cancelled. The conversion rate can also be affected
    by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end
    of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable
    terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate and
    execute these contracts in a timely manner. In addition, for
    newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how
    their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for one or
    two quarters following the acquisition, and their conversion
    rate post-acquisition may be quite different from their
    historical conversion rate.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    A substantial portion of our new software license revenue
    contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a
    significant percentage of these are large orders. Because our
    cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue
    shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on
    our profitability. The number of large new software license
    transactions also increases the risk of fluctuation in our
    quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of
    these transactions could cause our quarterly new software
    licenses revenues to fall significantly short of our predictions.


 


    Our success depends upon our ability to develop new
    products and services, integrate acquired products and services
    and enhance our existing products and
    services.  Rapid technological advances and
    evolving standards in computer hardware, software development
    and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly
    sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product
    introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise
    software market in which we compete. If we are unable to develop
    new products and services, or to enhance and improve our
    products and support services in a timely manner or to position
    and/or price
    our products and services to meet market demand, customers may
    not buy new software licenses or renew software license updates
    and product support. In addition, IT standards from both
    consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de
    facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. We cannot
    provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to
    develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for
    business opportunities in emerging areas.


 


    We are developing a next generation applications platform called
    Oracle Fusion Applications that is planned to combine the best
    features, flows and usability traits of our existing and
    acquired applications. We have also announced that we intend to
    extend the life of many of our acquired applications and will
    continue to provide long-term support for our acquired products,
    both of which require us to dedicate resources. If we do not
    develop and release these new or enhanced products and services
    within the anticipated time frames, if there is a delay in
    market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or
    service, if we do not timely optimize complementary product
    lines and services or if we fail to adequately integrate,
    support or enhance acquired application lines or services, our
    business may be adversely affected.


 


    Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize
    the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the
    time of any transaction.  In the past four
    fiscal years, we have invested billions of dollars, including
    $9.4 billion in fiscal 2008, to acquire a number of
    companies, products, services and technologies. An active
    acquisition program is an important element of our overall
    corporate strategy and we expect to continue to make similar
    acquisitions in the future. Risks we may face in connection with
    our acquisition program include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s
    attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or
    integration activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we
    expected, or we may pay more than the acquired company or assets
    are worth;




 



     
        • 

    
    our due diligence process may fail to identify all of the
    problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an
    acquired company or technology, including issues with the
    company’s intellectual property, product quality or product
    architecture, revenue recognition or other accounting practices
    or employee, customer or partner issues;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may have legal and tax exposures or lose anticipated tax
    benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in our
    integration activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues if a
    larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew
    software license updates and product support, if we are unable
    to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if
    contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to
    recognize revenues on a timely basis;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may assume pre-existing contractual relationships of acquired
    companies that we would not have otherwise entered into, and
    exiting or modifying such relationships may be costly to us or
    disruptive to customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may face litigation or other claims in connection with, or
    may inherit claims or litigation risk as a result of, an
    acquisition, including claims from terminated employees,
    customers, former stockholders or other third parties;






    
    14



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our relationship with current and new employees, customers,
    partners and distributors could be impaired;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or
    products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform
    standards, controls, procedures and policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may have multiple and overlapping product lines as a result
    of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported
    differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support
    and development of acquired products;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may assume pre-existing liabilities, whether known or
    unknown, of acquired companies which could be material;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental
    authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely
    basis, if it all, which could, among other things, prevent us
    from completing a transaction;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial
    acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to
    complete the acquisition in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other
    potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases and
    retirement of outstanding indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and
    debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for
    an acquisition;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may
    otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or
    other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar
    bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an
    acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans
    in certain jurisdictions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity
    securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing
    stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease.





 


    The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger
    acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions.


 


    We may not be able to protect our intellectual property
    rights.  We rely on copyright, trademark,
    patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures,
    controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual
    property rights. Despite our efforts, these protections may be
    limited. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse
    engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use
    our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be
    invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or
    future patent applications, whether or not being currently
    challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we
    seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not
    provide the same level of protection of our intellectual
    property rights as do the laws and courts of the United States.
    If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against
    unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may
    not remain competitive.


 


    Third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim
    infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights
    and/or
    breach of license agreement provisions.  We
    periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed
    against us by, others claiming infringement, or other misuse of
    their intellectual property rights
    and/or
    breach of our agreements with them. We expect the number of such
    claims will increase as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we continue to acquire companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    the number of products and competitors in our industry segments
    grows;




 



     
        • 

    
    the functionality of products overlap;




 



     
        • 

    
    the use and support of third-party code (including open source
    code) becomes more prevalent in the software industry; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the volume of issued software patents continues to increase.





 


    Responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    be time-consuming, costly
    and/or
    result in litigation;






    
    15



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    divert management’s time and attention from developing our
    business;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and
    licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to release source code to third parties, possibly
    under open source license terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our
    customers; or




 



     
        • 

    
    otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations,
    financial condition or cash flows.





 


    Specific patent infringement cases are discussed under
    Note 15 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    We may need to change our pricing models to compete
    successfully.  The intense competition we face
    in the sales of our products and services and general economic
    and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our
    prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain
    products or services, we may need to lower prices or offer other
    favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such
    changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating
    results. Our software license updates and product support fees
    are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software
    license fees. Our competitors may offer lower percentage pricing
    on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us
    to further discount our new license prices.


 


    Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could
    cause new software license and services revenues to decline or
    be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers
    adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may
    bundle software products for promotional purposes or as a
    long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and
    product implementations. These practices could, over time,
    significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for
    certain of our products. If we do not adapt our pricing models
    to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in
    customer demand, our new software license revenues could
    decrease. Additionally, increased distribution of applications
    through application service providers, including
    software-as-a-service (SaaS) providers, may reduce the average
    price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our
    products, reducing new software license revenues unless we can
    offset price reductions with volume increases or lower spending.
    The increase in open source software distribution may also cause
    us to change our pricing models.


 


    We may be unable to compete effectively within the highly
    competitive software industry.  Many vendors
    develop and market databases, internet application server
    products, application development tools, business applications,
    collaboration products and business intelligence products that
    compete with our offerings. In addition, several companies offer
    business process outsourcing (BPO) as a competitive alternative
    to buying software and customer interest in BPO solutions is
    increasing. Some of these competitors have greater financial or
    technical resources than we do. Our competitors that offer
    business applications and middleware products may influence a
    customer’s purchasing decision for the underlying database
    in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our
    products. We could lose customers if our competitors introduce
    new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire
    competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances
    with other companies. Vendors that offer BPO solutions may
    persuade our customers not to purchase our products. We may also
    face increasing competition from open source software
    initiatives, in which competitors may provide software and
    intellectual property for free. Existing or new competitors
    could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense.


 


    Disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our
    future operating results.  Our indirect
    channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system
    integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers,
    internet service providers, network integrators and independent
    software vendors. Our relationships with these channel
    participants are important elements of our marketing and sales
    efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if
    our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our
    relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if
    any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with
    or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial
    condition of our channel participants were to weaken. There can
    be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining,
    expanding or developing our relationships with channel
    participants. If we are not successful, we may lose sales
    opportunities, customers and revenues.


 


    Charges to earnings resulting from past acquisitions may
    adversely affect our operating results.  Under
    business combination accounting standards, we allocate the total
    purchase price to an acquired company’s net tangible
    assets, intangible assets and in-process research and
    development based on their values as of the date of the



    
    16



Table of Contents




    acquisition (including certain assets and liabilities that are
    recorded at fair value) and record the excess of the purchase
    price over those values as goodwill. Management’s estimates
    of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be
    reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. After we complete
    an acquisition, the following factors could result in material
    charges that would adversely affect our operating results and
    may adversely affect our cash flows:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    impairment of goodwill or intangible assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired;




 



     
        • 

    
    identification of assumed contingent liabilities after we
    finalize the purchase price allocation period;




 



     
        • 

    
    charges to our operating results to eliminate certain Oracle
    pre-merger activities that duplicate those of the acquired
    company or to reduce our cost structure; and




 



     
        • 

    
    charges to our operating results resulting from revised
    estimates to restructure an acquired company’s operations
    after we finalize the purchase price allocation period.





 


    Routine charges to our operating results associated with
    acquisitions include amortization of intangible assets,
    in-process research and development as well as other acquisition
    related charges, restructuring and stock-based compensation
    associated with assumed stock awards. Charges to our operating
    results in any given period could differ substantially from
    other periods based on the timing and size of our future
    acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. See
    Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Supplemental
    Disclosure Related to Certain Charges and Gains” for
    additional information about charges to earnings associated with
    our recent acquisitions.


 


    We expect to continue to incur additional costs associated with
    combining the operations of our acquired companies, which may be
    substantial. Additional costs may include costs of employee
    redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary
    increases or bonuses, accelerated stock-based compensation
    expenses and severance payments, reorganization or closure of
    facilities, taxes, and termination of contracts that provide
    redundant or conflicting services. Some of these costs may have
    to be accounted for as expenses that would decrease our net
    income and earnings per share for the periods in which those
    adjustments are made.


 


    In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (FASB) issued Statement No. 141 (revised 2007), Business
    Combinations (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a summary of Statement 141(R)).
    Statement 141(R) is effective for us beginning in fiscal 2010.
    We are in the process of evaluating the impact of the pending
    adoption of Statement 141(R) on our consolidated financial
    statements. We currently believe that the adoption of Statement
    141(R) will result in the recognition of certain types of
    expenses in our results of operations that we currently
    capitalize pursuant to existing accounting standards and may
    also impact our financial statements in other ways.


 


    We may be unable to hire enough qualified employees or we
    may lose key employees.  We rely on the
    continued service of our senior management, including our Chief
    Executive Officer, members of our executive team and other key
    employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In the
    software industry, there is substantial and continuous
    competition for highly skilled business, product development,
    technical and other personnel. In addition, acquisitions could
    cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at
    Oracle. We may also experience increased compensation costs that
    are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices.
    We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in
    retaining and motivating existing personnel. With rare
    exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or
    non-competition agreements with our employees. Members of our
    senior management team have left Oracle over the years for a
    variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not
    be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our
    operations.


 


    We continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring
    personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is
    available at lower costs. When we make adjustments to our
    workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce
    reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce
    structure. We may also experience increased competition for
    employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization
    continues which may affect our employee retention efforts
    and/or
    increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive
    compensation program.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    Part of our total compensation program includes stock options.
    Stock options are an important tool in attracting and retaining
    employees in our industry. If our stock price performs poorly,
    it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract
    employees. In addition, because we expense all stock-based
    compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and
    other compensation practices. Some of the changes we consider
    from time to time include the reduction in the number of
    employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options
    granted per employee and a change to alternative forms of
    stock-based compensation. Any changes in our compensation
    practices or changes made by competitors could affect our
    ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit
    new personnel.


 


    Our international sales and operations subject us to
    additional risks that can adversely affect our operating
    results.  We derive a substantial portion of
    our revenues, and have significant operations, outside of the
    United States. Our international operations include software
    development, sales, customer support, consulting, On Demand and
    shared administrative service centers. We are subject to a
    variety of risks and challenges in managing an organization
    operating in various countries, including those related to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general economic conditions in each country or region;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory changes;




 



     
        • 

    
    political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other
    hostilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have
    significant operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts
    receivable;




 



     
        • 

    
    overlapping tax regimes;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in transferring funds from certain
    countries; and




 



     
        • 

    
    reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some
    countries.





 


    In addition, compliance with international and U.S. laws
    and regulations that apply to our international operations
    increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions.
    These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements,
    labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations,
    import and trade restrictions, export requirements,
    U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and
    local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental
    officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result
    in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our
    employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any
    such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to
    offer our products and services in one or more countries, could
    delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also
    materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international
    expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees,
    our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in
    part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these
    difficulties.


 


    As the majority shareholder of i-flex solutions limited, a
    publicly traded Indian software company focused on the banking
    industry, we are faced with several additional risks, including
    being subject to local securities regulations and being unable
    to exert full control or obtain financial and other information
    on a timely basis.


 


    We may experience foreign currency gains and
    losses.  We conduct a significant number of
    transactions in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Our
    revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the
    dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are
    positively affected when the dollar weakens. Our revenues and
    operating results have recently been favorably affected by the
    weakening U.S. Dollar relative to other major foreign
    currencies. Changes in the value of major foreign currencies,
    particularly the Euro, Japanese Yen and British Pound relative
    to the U.S. Dollar can significantly affect revenues and
    our operating results.


 


    Our foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily
    related to sublicense fees and other agreements among us and our
    subsidiaries and distributors, are charged against earnings in
    the period incurred. We enter into foreign exchange forward
    contracts to hedge certain transaction and translation exposures
    in major currencies, but we will continue to experience foreign
    currency gains and losses in certain instances where it is not
    possible or cost effective to hedge foreign currencies.



    
    18



Table of Contents




    Our periodic workforce restructurings can be
    disruptive.  We have in the past restructured
    or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct
    sales force on which we continue to rely heavily, in response to
    management changes, product changes, performance issues,
    acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. In
    the past, sales force and other restructurings have generally
    resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity.
    These effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions
    and other restructurings and our revenues could be negatively
    affected.


 


    Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand may not be
    successful.  We offer Oracle On Demand
    outsourcing services for our applications and database
    technology, delivered either at our data center facilities, at
    select partner data centers or at customer facilities. We also
    offer CRM On Demand, which is a subscription service offering
    that provides our customers with our CRM software functionality
    delivered via a hosted, web-based solution that we manage. These
    business models continue to evolve and we may not be able to
    compete effectively, generate significant revenues or develop
    them into profitable businesses. We incur expenses associated
    with the infrastructures and marketing of our Oracle On Demand
    and CRM On Demand businesses in advance of our ability to
    recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. These
    businesses are subject to a variety of risks including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demand for these services may not meet our expectations;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to operate these businesses at an acceptable
    profit level;




 



     
        • 

    
    we manage critical customer applications, data and other
    confidential information through Oracle On Demand and CRM On
    Demand; accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant
    damage claims and risk to future business prospects in the event
    of system failures, inadequate disaster recovery or loss or
    misappropriation of customer confidential information;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data
    privacy, data security and export compliance, as well as
    workforce reduction claims as a result of customers transferring
    their IT functions to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers
    are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security
    and use of global resources; changes in these laws could affect
    our ability to provide services from or to some locations and
    could increase both the costs and risks associated with
    providing the services;




 



     
        • 

    
    demand for these services may be affected by customer and media
    concerns about security risks, international transfers of data,
    government or other third-party access to data,
    and/or use
    of outsourced services providers more generally; and




 



     
        • 

    
    our offerings may require large fixed costs such as for data
    centers, computers, network infrastructure and security and we
    may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset these
    costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these
    offerings.





 


    We might experience significant errors or security flaws
    in our products and services.  Despite testing
    prior to their release, software products frequently contain
    errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or
    when new versions are released. The detection and correction of
    any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in
    our software products could affect the ability of our products
    to work with other hardware or software products, could delay
    the development or release of new products or new versions of
    products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our
    products. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new
    products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. In
    addition, we run our own business operations, Oracle On Demand,
    CRM On Demand and other outsourcing services, support and
    consulting services, on our products and networks and any
    security flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to
    conduct internal business operations. End users, who rely on our
    products and services for applications that are critical to
    their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product
    errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software
    products generally. Software product errors and security flaws
    in our products or services could expose us to product
    liability, performance
    and/or
    warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could
    impact our future sales of products and services. In addition,
    we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches
    of our services, which could adversely impact future business
    prospects for those services.


 


    We may not receive significant revenues from our current
    research and development efforts for several years, if at
    all.  Developing and localizing software is
    expensive and the investment in product development often
    involves



    
    19



Table of Contents




    a long return on investment cycle. We have made and expect to
    continue to make significant investments in software research
    and development and related product opportunities. Accelerated
    product introductions and short product life cycles require high
    levels of expenditures for research and development that could
    adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue
    increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a
    significant amount of resources to our research and development
    efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not
    expect to receive significant revenues from these investments
    for several years if at all.


 


    Our sales to government clients subject us to risks
    including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions
    and penalties.  We derive revenues from
    contracts with the United States government, state and local
    governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate
    most of these contracts at any time, without cause.


 


    There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies,
    both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Our
    federal government contracts are subject to the approval of
    appropriations being made by the United States Congress to fund
    the expenditures under these contracts. Similarly, our contracts
    at the state and local levels are subject to government funding
    authorizations.


 


    Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to
    audits and investigations which could result in various civil
    and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including
    termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received,
    forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and
    suspensions or debarment from future government business.


 


    Business disruptions could affect our operating
    results.  A significant portion of our
    research and development activities and certain other critical
    business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas.
    We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure
    of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and
    providing services, including some of our On Demand offerings. A
    major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results
    in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business
    or information technology systems could severely affect our
    ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result,
    our future operating results could be materially and adversely
    affected.


 


    There are risks associated with our outstanding
    indebtedness.  As of May 31, 2008, we had
    an aggregate of $11.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness
    that will mature between 2009 and 2038, and we may incur
    additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay
    interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is
    dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations,
    generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the
    other factors discussed in this section. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks
    successfully.


 


    We may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt
    as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to
    refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may
    not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt.
    Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at
    the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon
    refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that
    refinanced indebtedness would increase. In addition, changes by
    any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could
    negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity
    securities. These risks could adversely affect our financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    Adverse litigation results could affect our
    business.  We are subject to various legal
    proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive
    to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with
    certainty. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages
    or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating
    results or financial condition. Additional information regarding
    certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under
    Note 15 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    We may have exposure to additional tax
    liabilities.  As a multinational corporation,
    we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based
    taxes, in both the United States and various foreign
    jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining
    our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax
    liabilities.


 


    In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many
    intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate
    tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by
    tax authorities. Our intercompany transfer pricing is currently
    being reviewed by the IRS and by foreign tax jurisdictions and
    will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. We
    previously negotiated three unilateral Advance Pricing
    Agreements with the IRS



    
    20



Table of Contents




    that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and
    preclude the IRS from making a transfer pricing adjustment
    within the scope of these agreements. These agreements are
    effective for fiscal years through May 31, 2006. We have
    submitted to the IRS a request for renewal of this Advance
    Pricing Agreement for the years ending May 31, 2007 through
    May 31, 2011. However, these agreements do not cover all
    elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities
    outside the United States. We have finalized one bilateral
    Advance Pricing Agreement, which was effective for the years
    ending May 31, 2002 through May 31, 2006 and we have
    submitted a renewal for the years ending May 31, 2007
    through May 31, 2011. We currently are negotiating an
    additional bilateral agreement to cover the period from
    June 1, 2001 through May 31, 2008. There can be no
    guarantee that such negotiations will result in an agreement.


 


    Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there
    is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or
    tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our
    historical income tax provisions and accruals.


 


    We are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll,
    sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and
    services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign
    jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities
    with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have
    exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. Our
    acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax
    exposures.


 


    PeopleSoft’s Customer Assurance Program may expose us
    to substantial liabilities if triggered.  In
    June 2003, in response to our tender offer, PeopleSoft
    implemented what it referred to as the “customer assurance
    program” or “CAP”. The CAP incorporated a
    provision in PeopleSoft’s standard licensing arrangement
    that purports to contractually burden us, as a result of our
    acquisition of PeopleSoft, with a contingent obligation to make
    payments to PeopleSoft customers should we fail to take certain
    business actions for a fixed period of time after this
    acquisition. The payment obligation, which typically expires
    four years from the date of the contract, is fixed at an amount
    generally between two and five times the license and first year
    support fees paid to PeopleSoft in the applicable license
    transaction. We concluded that, as of the date of the PeopleSoft
    acquisition, the penalty provisions under the CAP represented a
    contingent liability of ours. The aggregate potential CAP
    obligation as of May 31, 2008 was $1.9 billion. Some
    of the CAP provisions have expired or have been removed from
    these license arrangements. We expect the significant majority
    of the remaining CAP provisions to expire by the end of calendar
    2008. While we have taken extensive steps to assure customers
    that we intend to continue developing and supporting the
    PeopleSoft and JD Edwards product lines and, as of May 31,
    2008, we have not received any claims for CAP payments,
    PeopleSoft customers may assert claims for CAP payments.


 


    Our stock price could become more volatile and your
    investment could lose value.  All of the
    factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price.
    The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new
    products, product enhancements or technological advances by our
    competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions,
    major transactions, or management changes could also affect our
    stock price. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the
    press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or
    earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in
    investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our
    stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our
    performance. A significant drop in our stock price could also
    expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits,
    which could result in substantial costs and divert
    management’s attention and resources, which could adversely
    affect our business.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B