Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” When used in this
    report, the words “expects,” “anticipates,”
    “intends,” “plans,” “believes,”
    “seeks,” “estimates” and similar expressions
    are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
    You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking
    statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of
    this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly
    release any revisions to the forward-looking statements after
    the date of this document. You should carefully review the risk
    factors described in other documents we file from time to time
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q
    to be filed by us in our 2008 fiscal year, which runs from
    June 1, 2007 to May 31, 2008.


 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    We are the world’s largest enterprise software company. We
    develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database
    and middleware software as well as applications software
    designed to help our customers manage and grow their business
    operations. We also provide support for the Linux open source
    operating system through our Oracle Unbreakable Linux Support
    program, which provides our customers with our industry-leading
    global support programs for Linux.


 


    Our goal is to offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and
    integrated software systems that provide transactional
    efficiencies, adapt to an organization’s unique needs and
    allow better ways to access and manage information at a lower
    total cost of ownership. We seek to be an industry leader in
    each of the specific product categories in which we compete and
    to expand into new and emerging markets. In fiscal 2007, we
    focused on strengthening our competitive position and enhancing
    our existing portfolio of products and services as well as
    acquiring and integrating businesses.


 


    An active acquisition program is an important element of our
    corporate strategy. In the last three fiscal years, we have
    invested over $25 billion, in the aggregate, to acquire a
    number of companies, products, services and technologies,
    including the acquisition of PeopleSoft, Inc., Siebel Systems,
    Inc. and Hyperion Solutions Corporation. Typically, the
    significant majority of our integration activities related to an
    acquisition are substantially complete in the United States
    within three to six months after the closing of the acquisition.
    We believe our acquisition program supports our long-term
    strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position,
    expands our customer base and provides greater scale to
    accelerate innovation, grow our earnings and increase
    stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies,
    products, services and technologies.


 


    Oracle Corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a Delaware
    corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun
    in June 1977.


 



    Software
    and Services


 


    We are organized into two businesses, software and services,
    which are further divided into five operating segments. Our
    software business is comprised of two operating segments:
    (1) new software licenses and (2) software license
    updates and product support. Our services business is comprised
    of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) On
    Demand and (3) education. Our software and services
    businesses represented 79% and 21% of our total revenues,
    respectively, in fiscal 2007 and 80% and 20% of our total
    revenues, respectively, in both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005. See
    Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional information related to our operating segments.



    
    1



Table of Contents





    Software
    Business 


 



    New
    Software Licenses


 


    New software licenses include the licensing of database and
    middleware software, which consists of Oracle Database and
    Oracle Fusion Middleware, as well as applications software. Our
    technology and business solutions are based on an internet model
    comprised of interconnected database servers, application
    servers, web servers and computers as well as mobile devices
    running web browsers. This architecture enables users to access
    business data and applications through a universally adopted web
    browser interface, while providing enterprises the most
    efficient and cost effective method of managing business
    information and applications.


 


    In an internet model, database servers manage and protect the
    underlying business information, while application servers run
    the business applications that automate a myriad of business
    functions. We have focused on concepts such as global single
    instance application deployment that involve fewer, high quality
    databases of important business information, rather than dozens
    or hundreds of disparate databases that are difficult to
    synchronize and coordinate. Our integrated architecture provides
    high quality business information and can be adapted to the
    specific needs of any industry or application. Oracle technology
    operates on single server or clustered server configurations,
    and supports a choice of operating systems including Linux, UNIX
    and Windows. In fiscal 2007, we introduced a program to support
    the Linux open source operating system for our customers’
    information technology (IT) platforms.


 


    New software license revenues include fees earned from granting
    customers licenses to use our software products and exclude
    revenues derived from software license updates and product
    support. The standard end user software license agreement for
    our products provides for an initial fee to use the product in
    perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users
    or other metrics. We also have other types of software license
    agreements restricted by the number of employees or the license
    term. New software license revenues represented 33%, 34% and 35%
    of total revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.


 



    Database
    and Middleware Software


 


    Our grid software provides a cost-effective, high-performance
    platform for running and managing business applications for
    small and mid-size businesses and large global enterprises. With
    an increasing focus by enterprises on reducing their total cost
    of IT infrastructure, Oracle’s grid software is designed to
    accommodate demanding, non-stop business environments, using
    clusters of low cost servers and storage that can incrementally
    scale as required. The unique ability to assign computing
    resources as required simplifies our customers’ computing
    capacity, planning and procurement in order to support all of
    their business applications. With an Oracle grid infrastructure,
    our customers can lower their investment in IT hardware, reduce
    their risk of IT infrastructure downtime and easily cope with
    sudden increases in demand on their IT environments during high
    traffic periods. New software license revenues from database and
    middleware products represented 71%, 73% and 81% of new software
    license revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.


 



    Database


 


    As the world’s most popular database, Oracle’s
    relational database enables the secure storage, manipulation and
    retrieval of all forms of data including structured data that
    resides in business applications, XML data, analytics data,
    spatial data and other unstructured data such as documents,
    spreadsheets and images. Designed for enterprise grid computing,
    the Oracle Database is available in four editions: Express
    Edition, Standard Edition One, Standard Edition and Enterprise
    Edition. All editions are built using the same underlying code,
    which means that database applications can easily scale from
    small, single processor servers to clusters of multi-processor
    servers.


 


    Options to Oracle Database Enterprise Edition are available to
    meet specific requirements in the areas of performance and
    scalability, high availability, security and compliance, data
    warehousing, unstructured data integration and systems
    management. Examples of these options include: Oracle Real
    Application Clusters, which consolidates a single, scalable and
    fault tolerant database that is shared across an interconnected
    cluster of servers (also available on our other database
    editions); Oracle Partitioning, which supports large transaction
    processing and business intelligence database systems and cost
    effectively manages data throughout its lifecycle; and Oracle



    
    2



Table of Contents




    Warehouse Builder connectors, which design, build and populate
    data warehouses from a variety of legacy repositories.


 



    Enterprise
    Manager
    


 


    Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to deliver top-down
    applications management. Our customers use Oracle Enterprise
    Manager to monitor and manage their applications and underlying
    software infrastructure, including both Oracle and non-Oracle
    infrastructure products. Oracle Enterprise Manager can be used
    to manage packaged applications, such as Siebel, PeopleSoft,
    Oracle
    E-Business
    Suite or custom applications including service-oriented
    applications. In addition to managing Oracle software
    infrastructure products including the Oracle Database and Oracle
    Fusion Middleware, Oracle Enterprise Manager also supports
    third-party infrastructure products.


 


    Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to monitor service levels
    and performance, automate tasks, manage configuration
    information, and provide change management in a unified way
    across groups of computers or grids. Oracle Enterprise
    Manager’s provisioning automates the discovery, tracking
    and scheduling of software patches and allows IT administrators
    to apply patches without taking their system down. Additionally,
    IT administrators can manage systems from anywhere through an
    HTML browser or through wireless PDAs.


 



    Secure
    Enterprise Search
    


 


    Oracle Secure Enterprise Search provides an internet-like search
    experience to users searching secure content inside the
    enterprise. Oracle Secure Enterprise Search indexes and searches
    public, private and shared content across internal and external
    web sites, databases, file servers, document repositories,
    enterprise content management systems, applications and portals.
    Oracle Secure Enterprise Search has built-in functionality that
    permits users to see only search results leading to information
    for which they have authorized access. The product features a
    simple web interface allowing for efficient administration and
    management. Additionally, users can access the search engine
    through web-based user interfaces and perform traditional
    keyword searches that provide results in a format similar to
    conventional web searches.


 



    Middleware


 


    Oracle Fusion Middleware is a broad product family that forms a
    reliable and scalable foundation on which customers can build,
    deploy and integrate business applications and automate their
    business processes. Oracle Fusion Middleware includes Oracle
    Application Server, Oracle Identity and Access Management Suite,
    Oracle Webcenter Suite, Oracle Business Intelligence Suite,
    Oracle Developer Suite, Oracle Service Oriented Architecture
    Suite, Oracle Enterprise Content Management Suite and Oracle
    Business Process Analysis Suite, among others. Oracle Fusion
    Middleware is designed to protect our customers’ IT
    investments and work with both Oracle and non-Oracle Database,
    Applications and Middleware products through its hot-pluggable
    architecture and adherence to industry standards such as J2EE
    and Business Process Execution Language (BPEL).


 


    By using Oracle Fusion Middleware, our customers increase their
    capacity to adapt to business changes rapidly, reduce their
    risks related to security and compliance, increase user
    productivity, and drive better business decisions. Specifically,
    Oracle Fusion Middleware enables customers to easily integrate
    heterogeneous business applications, automate business
    processes, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycle of
    documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence,
    while continuing to utilize their existing IT systems. In
    addition, Oracle Fusion Middleware supports multiple development
    languages and tools, which allows developers to build and deploy
    web services, web sites, portals and web-based applications.
    Oracle’s Fusion Middleware is used to support Oracle
    applications, as well as other enterprise applications and
    independent software vendors that build their own custom
    applications.


 



    Application
    Server
    


 


    The foundation of Oracle Fusion Middleware is Oracle Application
    Server. Designed for grid computing, Oracle Application Server
    incorporates clustering and caching technology, which increases
    application reliability, performance, security and scalability.
    Oracle Application Server also provides a complete integration
    platform that is designed to simplify and accelerate business,
    application and data integration projects.



    
    3



Table of Contents





    Identity and
    Access Management Suite
    


 


    The Oracle Identity and Access Management suite makes it easier
    for our customers to manage multiple user identities, provision
    users in multiple enterprise applications and systems and manage
    access privileges for customers, employees and partners. Our
    customers use Oracle Identity and Access Management Suite to
    secure their information from potential threats. In addition,
    our customers also use Oracle Identity and Access Management
    Suite to increase compliance levels, while lowering the total
    cost of their compliance efforts.


 



    Webcenter
    Suite
    


 


    Oracle Webcenter Suite enables personalized, task oriented web
    applications and portal sites to be rapidly developed and
    deployed, all with single sign-on access and security. Our
    customers can assemble portal sites using page regions or
    portlets, which are reusable interface components that provide
    access to web-based resources such as applications, business
    intelligence reports, syndicated content feeds and outsourced
    software services. With the Oracle Communications and Mobility
    Server option, such web and portal applications support mobile
    and Voice-over-IP (VoIP) clients.


 



    Business
    Intelligence Suite
    


 


    Oracle Business Intelligence Suite is a family of enterprise
    business intelligence products that unites Oracle’s
    business intelligence and middleware technology with Siebel
    Business Analytics to offer our customers enterprise-wide
    business intelligence infrastructure and tools. Based on
    Oracle’s hot-pluggable business intelligence
    infrastructure, these products deliver to our customers a full
    spectrum of business intelligence requirements, including
    interactive dashboards, ad hoc query and analysis, proactive
    intelligence and alerts, enterprise reporting, real-time
    predictive intelligence and mobile analytics. In April 2007, we
    acquired Hyperion, a market leader in enterprise performance
    management and business intelligence products. As a result of
    the Hyperion acquisition, we now offer our customers the most
    comprehensive, integrated, end-to-end enterprise performance
    management system available, spanning consolidation, planning,
    operational analytic applications, business intelligence tools,
    reporting, and data integration, all on a unified business
    intelligence platform.


 


    Current editions of the Oracle Business Intelligence Suite
    include the Oracle Business Intelligence Suite Enterprise
    Edition and Oracle Business Intelligence Suite Standard
    Edition. Oracle Business Intelligence Suite Enterprise
    Edition is open to any enterprise data source and optimized for
    Oracle or non-Oracle databases, allowing customers to integrate
    data from all their enterprise applications, including third
    party and customer applications. Oracle Business Intelligence
    Suite Standard Edition is optimized to work with Oracle
    data and applications.


 



    Developer
    Suite
    


 


    Oracle Developer Suite is an integrated suite of development
    tools designed to facilitate rapid development of internet
    database applications and web services. The Oracle Developer
    Suite contains application development and business intelligence
    tools and is built on internet standards such as Java, J2EE, XML
    and HTML.


 


    The Oracle Developer Suite includes Oracle JDeveloper, a Java
    development environment for modeling, building, debugging and
    testing enterprise-class J2EE applications and web
    services. In addition, the suite contains Oracle Designer, a
    tool that allows developers to model business processes and
    automatically generate enterprise database applications, and
    Oracle Forms Developer, a development tool for building
    database applications that can be deployed unchanged in both
    internet and client/server based environments.


 


    The Oracle Developer Suite also includes Oracle Warehouse
    Builder software that consolidates fragmented data and metadata
    pulled from packaged applications, custom applications and
    legacy applications. Oracle Warehouse Builder enables developers
    to graphically design the multidimensional database schema and
    to automatically generate and load data into the data warehouse.


 



    Service-Oriented
    Architecture Suite
    


 


    Oracle Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) Suite is a complete
    set of service infrastructure components for creating,
    deploying, and managing SOAs, including Oracle Developer, Oracle
    BPEL Process Manager, Oracle Web



    
    4



Table of Contents




    Services Manager, Oracle Business Rules Engine, Oracle
    Business Activity Monitoring, and Oracle Enterprise Service Bus.
    Oracle SOA Suite enables services to be created, managed and
    orchestrated into composite applications and reconfigurable
    business processes, reducing development time and costs and
    increasing flexibility and response time. Oracle SOA Suite is
    hot-pluggable, enabling customers to easily extend and evolve
    their architectures instead of replacing existing investments.


 



    Enterprise
    Content Management Suite
    


 


    Oracle Enterprise Content Management suite provides a
    comprehensive set of capabilities to create, publish, share,
    archive and retain documents, manage business process flows
    involving these documents as well as manage information access
    rights to these documents. It supports an extensive set of
    document and image formats.


 



    Applications
    Software 


 


    Our applications strategy is designed to provide customers with
    a complete industry business process automation footprint,
    supported by a robust, standards-based technology platform.
    Central to that strategy is our commitment to offer our
    customers that purchase software license updates and support
    contracts a choice as to when they wish to upgrade to any of our
    existing or future technology offerings. Until our customers
    upgrade, we protect their investments in their applications by
    providing them lifetime support, product enhancements and
    upgrades. New technologies such as Oracle Fusion Middleware,
    Oracle Business Intelligence Suite, and Oracle WebCenter Suite
    are designed to help our customers extend the benefits of their
    investment in Oracle Applications, to reduce their investment
    risk, and to support their evolution to the next generation of
    enterprise software that best fits their needs.


 


    Our applications combine business functionality with innovative
    technologies such as role-based analytics, secure search,
    identity management, self-service, and workflow to deliver
    business intelligence and insights, adaptive industry processes,
    and a superior ownership experience. Our applications enable
    efficient management of all core business functions, including
    customer relationship management (CRM), enterprise performance
    management (EPM), enterprise resource planning (ERP) and
    industry-specific applications. Oracle applications are offered
    as integrated suites or available on a component basis, and all
    are built on open architectures and are designed for flexible
    configuration and open, multi-vendor integration. Our
    applications are available in multiple languages, and support a
    broad range of location specific requirements, enabling
    companies to support both global and local business practices
    and legal requirements.


 



    Customer
    Relationship Management (CRM)
    


 


    We offer a complete set of CRM applications that manage all of
    the business processes and associated systems that touch a
    customer, including: billing and delivery; sales solutions that
    provide a single repository for customer and supply chain
    information; and service solutions that increase customer
    satisfaction by providing visibility into customer billing and
    order information.


 



    Enterprise
    Performance Management (EPM)
    


 


    We offer a full spectrum of open, industry-specific analytic
    applications with capabilities such as enterprise performance
    management, interactive dashboarding, and embedded analytic
    functionality for delivering insight across the enterprise. Our
    Siebel business analytics solution is tailored to 20 industries,
    giving customers the ability to monitor, analyze, and act upon
    intelligence while providing end-to-end visibility into company
    operations and financial performance. With our acquisition of
    Hyperion in April 2007, we added complementary products to
    Oracle’s business intelligence offerings, including a
    leading open enterprise planning system, financial consolidation
    products, and a multi-source OLAP server. Our acquisition of
    Hyperion enables us to offer our customers an integrated,
    end-to-end EPM system that spans planning, consolidation,
    operational analytic applications, business intelligence tools,
    reporting, and data integration, all on a unified business
    intelligence platform.


 



    Enterprise
    Resource Planning (ERP)
    


 


    Companies use our ERP applications to automate and integrate a
    variety of their key global business processes including
    manufacturing, order entry, accounts receivable and payable,
    general ledger, purchasing, warehousing,



    
    5



Table of Contents




    transportation and human resources. Our ERP applications combine
    business functionality with innovative technologies, such as
    workflow and self-service applications, to enable companies to
    lower the cost of their business operations by providing their
    customers, suppliers and employees with self-service internet
    access to both transaction processing and critical business
    information. Our ERP applications are available in multiple
    languages and currencies, enabling companies to support both
    global and local business practices and legal requirements.


 



    Industry
    Applications
    


 


    Our applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of
    industry-specific solutions. As part of our strategy, we strive
    to ensure that our applications portfolio addresses the major
    industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in key
    industries. With our acquisition of Siebel, we gained expertise
    in the vertical markets in which Siebel offered industry
    solutions. We have also expanded our offerings in a number of
    other key industries we view as strategic to our future growth,
    most notably in retail with our acquisitions of Retek, Inc. and
    several other companies; in banking and financial institutions
    with our acquisition of i-flex solutions limited; and in
    telecommunications with our acquisitions of Portal Software,
    Inc. and MetaSolv, Inc. These acquired industry applications are
    in addition to industry applications we developed for
    healthcare, life sciences, manufacturing, education,
    professional services, public sector and utilities.


 


    New software license revenues from applications software
    represented 29%, 27% and 19% of new software license revenues in
    fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.


 



    Applications
    Unlimited
    


 


    In fiscal 2006, we announced we would continue to invest in
    enhancements to our current Oracle
    E-Business
    Suite, PeopleSoft Enterprise, JD Edwards EnterpriseOne, JD
    Edwards World and Siebel applications products beyond the
    delivery of Oracle Fusion Applications (described below). In
    January 2007, we delivered five new releases of these existing
    product lines, incorporating new products and customer-driven
    enhancements in areas such as global support, localization,
    middleware, and analytics. With the Applications Unlimited
    program, customers will not be required to migrate to Oracle
    Fusion Applications and may choose to stay with their current
    product lines with dedicated development and support teams.


 



    Fusion
    Applications
    


 


    Oracle Fusion Applications, currently in development, represent
    the next generation of Oracle Applications, based on a
    service-oriented platform, built on open industry standards,
    extendable by customers and partners and interoperable with
    third party and existing installations. Fusion applications are
    being designed to leverage the best functionality and combine
    the best features, flows and usability traits of our legacy and
    acquired application products into one product line. We believe
    the resulting suite of applications will deliver a superior
    ownership experience through improved usability, adaptive
    business process automation, built-in business intelligence and
    industry-specific capabilities.


 



    Software
    License Updates and Product Support


 


    We seek to protect and enhance our customers’ current
    investments in Oracle technology and applications by offering
    lifetime support, product enhancements and upgrades. Software
    license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified
    software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches
    released during the term of the support period. Product support
    includes internet and telephone access to technical support
    personnel located in our global support centers, as well as
    internet access to technical content. Software license updates
    and product support are generally priced as a percentage of the
    new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers
    purchase software license updates and product support when they
    acquire new software licenses. In addition, substantially all of
    our customers renew their software license updates and product
    support contracts annually.


 



    Unbreakable
    Linux Support


 


    During fiscal 2007, we introduced a program to support the Linux
    open source operating system for our customers’ IT
    platforms. Oracle Unbreakable Linux, a support program that
    provides enterprises with industry-leading global



    
    6



Table of Contents




    support for Linux, addresses customer demand for true
    enterprise-quality Linux support. The Oracle Unbreakable Linux
    support program delivers fully tested, high-quality,
    comprehensive and integrated support solutions to our customers
    using the Linux operating system. With Oracle solutions on
    Linux, our customers benefit from high performance, reliability
    and data security at a fraction of the cost of proprietary
    platforms. Oracle Unbreakable Linux also allows us to offer
    end-to-end support for our customers’ entire software
    “stack,” including enterprise applications,
    middleware, database and operating system.


 


    Our software license updates and product support revenues
    represented 46% of total revenues in both fiscal 2007 and 2006
    and 45% of total revenues in fiscal 2005.


 



    Services
    Business


 



    Consulting


 


    Oracle Consulting assists our customers in successfully
    deploying our applications and technology products. Our
    consulting services include business strategy and analysis;
    business process optimization; product implementation,
    enhancement, and upgrades; and ongoing managed services. These
    services help our customers to achieve measurable business
    results, manage their total cost of ownership, and reduce their
    deployment risk.


 


    Oracle Consulting deploys professionals globally utilizing our
    blended delivery capabilities, including use of onsite
    consultants and personnel from our offshore delivery centers and
    applications solutions centers to leverage economies of scale
    for our customers. Consulting revenues represented 16% of total
    revenues in fiscal 2007 and 15% of total revenues in both fiscal
    2006 and fiscal 2005.


 



    On
    Demand


 


    On Demand includes Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and Advanced
    Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured
    software and hardware management, and maintenance services for
    customers that deploy our database, middleware and applications
    software at our data center facilities or at a site of our
    customer’s choosing. We recently expanded our Oracle On
    Demand offerings to include our PeopleSoft, Siebel Business
    Intelligence and retail applications. CRM On Demand is a service
    offering that provides our customers with our Siebel CRM
    Software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we
    manage. Advanced Customer Services consists of solution support
    centers, business critical assistance, technical account
    management, expert services, configuration and performance
    analysis, personalized support and annual
    on-site
    technical services. On Demand revenues represented 3% of total
    revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005.


 



    Education


 


    We provide training to customers, partners and employees as part
    of our mission of accelerating the adoption of our technology
    around the world. We currently offer thousands of courses
    covering all of Oracle’s product offerings. Our training is
    provided primarily through public and private instructor-led
    classroom events, but is also made available through a variety
    of online courses and self paced media training on CD-ROMs. In
    addition, we also offer a certification program certifying
    database administrators, developers and implementers. Oracle
    University also offers User Adoption Services designed to
    provide comprehensive training services to help customers get
    the most out of their investment in Oracle. Education revenues
    represented 2% of total revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005.


 



    Marketing
    and Sales


 



    Sales
    Distribution Channels


 


    We directly market and sell our products and services primarily
    through our subsidiary sales and service organizations. In the
    United States our sales and service employees are based in our
    headquarters and in field offices throughout the United States.
    Outside the United States, our international subsidiaries
    license and support our products in their local countries as
    well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate
    through a direct sales subsidiary.



    
    7



Table of Contents




    We also market our products worldwide through indirect channels.
    The companies that comprise our indirect channel network are
    members of the Oracle PartnerNetwork. The Oracle PartnerNetwork
    is a global program that manages our business relationships with
    a large, broad- based network of companies, including
    independent software vendors, system integrators and resellers
    who deliver innovative solutions and services based upon our
    products. By offering our partners’ access to our premier
    products, educational information, technical services, marketing
    and sales support, the OPN program extends our market reach by
    providing our partners with the resources they need to be
    successful in delivering solutions to customers globally.


 



    International
    Markets


 


    We sell our products and provide services worldwide. Our
    geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical
    expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our
    operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific
    economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage
    of new markets for products. A summary of our domestic and
    international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in
    Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Cyclicality
    and Seasonality


 


    General economic conditions have an impact on our business and
    financial results. The markets in which we sell our products and
    services have, at times, experienced weak economic conditions
    that have negatively affected revenues. Our quarterly results
    reflect distinct seasonality in the sale of our products and
    services, as our revenues are typically highest in our fourth
    fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. See
    “Quarterly Results of Operations” in Item 7 for a
    more complete description of the cyclicality and seasonality of
    our revenues and expenses.


 



    Customers


 


    Our customer base consists of a significant number of businesses
    of many sizes and industries, government agencies, educational
    institutions and resellers. No single customer accounted for 10%
    or more of revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005.


 



    Competition


 


    The enterprise software industry is intensely competitive and
    evolving rapidly. We compete in various segments of this
    industry including database software, middleware (business
    intelligence, application integration, portal server, J2EE
    application server, development tools and identity management),
    collaboration, development tools, enterprise applications,
    consulting/systems integration and operating systems, among
    others. Total cost of ownership, performance, functionality,
    ease of use, standards-compliance, product reliability, security
    and quality of technical support are key competitive factors
    that face us in each of the areas in which we compete. Our
    customers are also demanding less complexity and lower cost in
    the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing
    maintenance of their enterprise software, which has led
    increasingly to our product offerings (database, middleware and
    applications) being viewed as a “stack” of software
    designed to work together. Our product sales (and the relative
    strength of our products versus our competitors) are also
    affected by the broader “platform” competition between
    industry standard Java (J2EE) and Microsoft Corporation’s
    .NET programming environments and by operating system
    competition between Windows Server, Unix (Sun Solaris, HP-UX and
    IBM AIX) and Linux. Open source alternatives to commercial
    software, such as MySQL AB in database, Red Hat, Inc. (JBoss) in
    middleware, and SugarCRM Inc. in applications, are also
    impacting the competitive environment. These products are
    typically offered free of charge and are readily available over
    the internet. Finally, “on demand” offerings, such as
    those from salesforce.com, continue to alter the competitive
    landscape.


 


    In the sale of database software and related tools, scalability,
    reliability, availability and security are key competitive
    differentiators for us. Our competitors include International
    Business Machines Corporation (IBM), Microsoft, Sybase, Inc.,
    NCR Corporation’s Teradata division, SAS Institute, Inc.,
    Informatica Corporation, and the open source databases, MySQL
    and PostgreSQL, among others. Our ability to continually
    innovate and differentiate our database offering has enabled us
    to maintain our leading position in database software over our
    competitors.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    In the sale of middleware products, our offerings include
    business intelligence, application integration, business process
    management (BPM), service oriented architecture, portal, J2EE
    application server, development tools and identity management
    software. Our ability to offer a full range of rich
    functionality in a standards-based, open architecture has been a
    key competitive differentiator. Our competitors include IBM,
    Microsoft, BEA Systems, Inc., SAP AG, Sun Microsystems Inc.,
    Sybase and open source vendors such as Red Hat (JBoss), Apache
    Geronimo and ObjectWeb, as well as other competitors in each
    element of our packaged functions. Business intelligence
    competitors include Actuate Corporation, Business Objects S.A.,
    Cognos Incorporated, MicroStrategy, Inc., SAS Institute, TIBCO
    Software, Inc. (Spotfire), open source vendors Netezza
    Corporation, and others. Application server competitors include
    Borland Software Corporation, Fujitsu Software Corporation,
    Hitachi Software Engineering Co., Ltd., Adobe Systems
    Incorporated and others. Enterprise Application Integration
    competitors include Software AG (webMethods), TIBCO, IONA
    Technologies PLC, Sonic Software Corporation, Sun Microsystems
    and others. BPM competitors include Lombardi Software, Inc.,
    Savvion, Inc., Pegasystems Inc. and others. Enterprise portal
    vendors include Vignette Corporation, Novell, Inc., Fujitsu, and
    others. Identity management vendors include IBM, CA, Inc., Sun
    Microsystems and Hewlett-Packard Company, among others. Open
    source vendors Red Hat and Novell are also increasingly bundling
    middleware functionality with their respective Linux
    distributions. Our middleware solutions have experienced rapid
    growth in recent years relative to our competitors. In the sale
    of collaboration products, we compete primarily with Microsoft
    (Exchange/Outlook), IBM (Domino/Notes), Novell (Groupwise) and
    Cisco Systems, Inc. (WebEx). In addition, we compete in the
    related content management markets with EMC Corporation
    (Documentum), IBM (FileNet), Percussion Software, Inc. and
    Vignette, among others.


 


    In the sale of development tools, ease of use,
    standards-compliance and the level of abstraction (automated
    code generation) are key competitive differentiators. We compete
    against IBM (WebSphere Studio), Microsoft 8 (VisualStudio.NET),
    Sun Microsystems (Sun Studio), Sybase (PowerBuilder) and others,
    including Eclipse Foundation, Inc. (Eclipse), an open source
    vendor. The success of our development tools is closely related
    to the relative popularity of our platform (database and
    middleware) compared to our competitors, as well as the larger
    competition between Java and Microsoft’s .NET.


 


    The sale of applications software, in particular, is changing
    rapidly due to the development and deployment of service
    oriented architectures and web services, application integration
    middleware as well as “software as a service”
    offerings, such as those from salesforce.com and RightNow
    Technologies Inc. in CRM applications. As a result of our
    acquisitions of PeopleSoft and Siebel, we presently offer
    several product lines, which are suited for different needs of
    customers in different industries. We compete against SAP,
    Lawson Software, Inc., Infor Global Solutions GmbH (SSA Global
    Technologies, Extensity), Microsoft Dynamics (Great Plains,
    Solomon, Axapta, Navision), Sage, Inc. and many other
    application providers. These include numerous point solution
    providers such as Epicor Software Corporation (accounting),
    SunGard Data Systems Inc. (treasury), Kronos Incorporated (time
    and attendance), Taleo Corporation (recruitment), Callidus
    Software Inc. (compensation), Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
    (HR, payroll and business process outsourcing), Ariba, Inc.
    (procurement), i2 Technologies, Inc. (supply chain
    management), IBM (MRO Software) (enterprise asset management),
    DSCI Corporation (logistics), Broadvision, Inc. (marketing),
    Kana Software, Inc. (analytics), salesforce.com (sales force
    automation) and Amdocs Limited (customer service). In addition,
    we compete with numerous specialized applications providers
    focused in specific vertical industries, such as financial
    services, retail and telecommunications. SAP is a major
    competitor in every industry vertical. Specialized industry
    vertical solutions such as retail and banking are also
    influenced heavily by the presence of customized solutions and
    in-house development.


 


    With SOA, our packaged applications also compete with custom
    solutions either developed in-house or by large systems
    integrators such as Accenture Ltd. or IBM Global Services. Our
    pre-packaged applications also compete against business process
    outsourcers including ADP, Fidelity Investments, Ceridian
    Corporation, Hewitt-Cyborg Limited and others. Our application
    products are architected around a single database model, which
    we believe is a key differentiator between our most significant
    competitors and us.


 


    In the sale of operating systems, we introduced a support and
    service offering for Red Hat’s open source Linux operating
    system in fiscal 2007. This puts us in direct competition with
    Red Hat, Novell, Canonical Ltd. (Ubuntu) and others in the sale
    of support for the Linux operating system; with IBM, Sun, H-P
    and others in the sale of Unix operating systems; and with
    Microsoft in the sale of Windows server operating systems.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    In the sale of consulting and systems integration services, we
    both partner with and compete against Accenture, Electronic Data
    Systems Corporation, IBM Global Services, Bearing Point, Inc.,
    CapGemini Group and many others.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We develop the majority of our products internally. In addition,
    we have acquired technology through business acquisitions. We
    also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain
    circumstances. Internal development allows us to maintain
    technical control over the design and development of our
    products. We have a number of United States and foreign patents
    and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our
    products and technology. While we believe that our patents have
    value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our
    principal business segments.


 


    Research and development expenditures were $2.2 billion,
    $1.9 billion and $1.5 billion, or 12%, 13% and 13% of
    total revenues, in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As
    a percentage of new software license revenues, research and
    development expenditures were 37%, 38% and 37% in fiscal 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively. Rapid technological advances in
    hardware and software development, evolving standards in
    computer hardware and software technology, changing customer
    needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements
    characterize the software markets in which we compete. We plan
    on continuing to dedicate a significant amount of resources to
    research and development efforts to maintain and improve our
    current product offerings including our database, middleware and
    applications software.


 



    Employees


 


    As of May 31, 2007, we employed 74,674 full-time
    employees, including 16,902 in sales and marketing, 6,775 in
    license updates and product support, 25,068 in services, 18,130
    in research and development and 7,799 in general and
    administrative positions. Of these employees, 25,990 were
    located in the United States and 48,684 were employed
    internationally. None of our employees in the United States is
    represented by a labor union; however, in certain international
    subsidiaries workers councils represent our employees.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a)
    and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    are available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations web
    site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
    furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
    information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this
    Annual Report.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Executive
    Officers and Significant Employees of the Registrant


 


    Our executive officers and significant employees are listed
    below.


 




     	
     	
     	




    Name



 



    Office(s)




 





    Lawrence J. Ellison
    



 


    Chief Executive Officer and
    Director
    





    Jeffrey O. Henley
    



 


    Chairman of the Board of Directors
    





    Safra A. Catz
    



 


    President, Chief Financial Officer
    and Director
    





    Charles E. Phillips, Jr. 
    



 


    President and Director
    





    Keith G. Block
    



 


    Executive Vice President, North
    America Sales and Consulting
    





    Sergio Giacoletto
    



 


    Executive Vice President, Europe,
    Middle East and Africa Sales and Consulting
    





    Juergen Rottler
    



 


    Executive Vice President, Oracle
    Support and Oracle On Demand
    





    Charles A. Rozwat
    



 


    Executive Vice President, Server
    Technologies
    





    Derek H. Williams
    



 


    Executive Vice President, Asia
    Pacific Sales and Consulting
    





    John Wookey
    



 


    Senior Vice President,
    Applications Development
    





    Daniel Cooperman
    



 


    Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary
    





    William Corey West
    



 


    Vice President, Corporate
    Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
    








 


    Mr. Ellison, 62, has been Chief Executive Officer and a
    Director since he founded Oracle in June 1977. He served as
    Chairman of the Board from May 1995 to January 2004.


 


    Mr. Henley, 62, has served as the Chairman of the Board
    since January 2004 and as a director since June 1995. He served
    as an Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from
    March 1991 to July 2004. He also serves as a director of
    CallWave, Inc.


 


    Ms. Catz, 45, has been Chief Financial Officer since
    November 2005 and a President since January 2004. She has served
    as a Director since October 2001. She was Interim Chief
    Financial Officer from April 2005 until July 2005. She served as
    an Executive Vice President from November 1999 to January 2004
    and Senior Vice President from April 1999 to October 1999.


 


    Mr. Phillips, 48, has been a President and has served as a
    Director since January 2004. He served as Executive Vice
    President, Strategy, Partnerships, and Business Development,
    from May 2003 to January 2004. Prior to joining us,
    Mr. Phillips was with Morgan Stanley & Co.
    Incorporated, a global investment bank, where he was a Managing
    Director from November 1995 to May 2003 and a Principal from
    December 1994 to November 1995. From 1986 to 1994,
    Mr. Phillips worked at various investment banking firms on
    Wall Street. Prior to that, Mr. Phillips served as a
    Captain in the United States Marine Corps as an information
    technology officer. Mr. Phillips also serves as a director
    of Morgan Stanley and Viacom Inc.


 


    Mr. Block, 46, has been Executive Vice President, North
    America Sales and Consulting since September 2002 and Executive
    Vice President, North America Consulting since February 2002. He
    served as Senior Vice President of North America Commercial
    Consulting and Global Service Lines from June 1999 until January
    2002. He served as Senior Vice President of the Commercial
    Consulting Practice from April 1999 until May 1999.
    Mr. Block was Group Vice President, East Consulting from
    June 1997 until March 1999. Prior to joining us in 1986,
    Mr. Block was a Senior Consultant at Booz, Allen and
    Hamilton. Mr. Giacoletto, 57, has been Executive Vice
    President, Europe, Middle East and Africa Sales and Consulting
    since June 2000 and Senior Vice President, Business Solutions
    since November 1998. He was Vice President, Alliances and
    Technology from March 1997 to November 1998. Before joining us,
    he had been President of AT&T Solutions for Europe since
    August 1994. Previously, he spent 20 years with Digital
    Equipment Corporation in various positions in European marketing
    and services.



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Mr. Rottler, 40, has been Executive Vice President, Oracle
    Support and Oracle On Demand since September 2004. Prior to
    joining us, he served as Senior Vice President, Public Sector,
    Customer Solutions Group at Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), from
    December 2003 to September 2004, where he was responsible for
    HP’s worldwide Public Sector, Health and Education
    business. Mr. Rottler was Vice President, HP Services
    Worldwide Sales and Marketing from May 2003 to December 2003,
    Vice President, HP Services Worldwide Marketing, Strategy and
    Alliances from May 2002 to May 2003 and Vice President and
    General Manager, HP Services North America from April 2000 to
    May 2002.


 


    Mr. Rozwat, 59, has been Executive Vice President, Server
    Technologies since November 1999 and served as Senior Vice
    President, Database Server from December 1996 to October 1999.
    He served as Vice President of Development from December 1994 to
    November 1996. Prior to joining us, he spent 17 years in
    various positions at Digital Equipment Corporation.


 


    Mr. Williams, 62, has been Executive Vice President, Asia
    Pacific Sales and Consulting since October 2000 and Senior Vice
    President, Asia Pacific from July 1993 to October 2000. He
    served as Vice President, Asia Pacific from April 1991 to July
    1993. Mr. Williams joined Oracle United Kingdom in October
    1988 and served as Regional Director, Strategic Accounts from
    October 1988 to April 1991.


 


    Mr. Wookey, 48, has been Senior Vice President,
    Applications Development since April 2000. Mr. Wookey
    served as Senior Vice President, Financial Applications Products
    from April 1999 to January 2000 and Vice President, Financial
    Applications Products from June 1995 to April 1999. Prior to
    joining us, he spent eight years as Vice President of
    Development at Ross Systems, Inc.


 


    Mr. Cooperman, 56, has been Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary since February 1997. Prior to joining us,
    he had been associated with the law firm of McCutchen, Doyle,
    Brown & Enersen (which is now Bingham McCutchen LLP)
    since October 1977, and had served as a partner since June 1983.
    From September 1995 until February 1997, Mr. Cooperman was
    Chair of the law firm’s Business and Transactions Group and
    from April 1989 through September 1995, he served as the
    Managing Partner of the law firm’s San Jose office.


 


    Mr. West, 45, has been Vice President, Corporate Controller
    and Chief Accounting Officer since April 2007. He served as
    Intuit Inc.’s Director of Accounting from August 2005 to
    March 2007, as The Gap, Inc.’s Assistant Controller from
    April 2005 to August 2005, and as Vice President, Finance, at
    Cadence Design Systems, Inc.’s product business from June
    2001 to April 2005. From January 2001 to June 2001, he was Vice
    President, Finance and Corporate Controller at Adecco, Inc. and
    from October 1998 to November 2000 he served in various
    positions with Resource Phoenix.com, most recently as its
    President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. West spent
    14 years, from December 1984 to October 1998, with Arthur
    Andersen LLP, most recently as a partner.



    
    12



Table of Contents



 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological
    environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are
    driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The
    following discussion, as well as our “Critical Accounting
    Policies and Estimates” discussion in Item 7,
    highlights some of these risks.


 


    Economic, political and market conditions can adversely
    affect our revenue growth and
    profitability.  Our business is influenced by
    a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have
    no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general economic and business conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    the overall demand for enterprise software and services;



 


     
        • 

    
    governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government
    spending priorities; and



 


     
        • 

    
    general political developments.





 


    A general weakening of the global economy, or a curtailment in
    government or corporate spending, could delay and decrease
    customer purchases. In addition, the war on terrorism, the war
    in Iraq and the potential for other hostilities in various parts
    of the world, potential public health crises, as well as natural
    disasters, continue to contribute to a climate of economic and
    political uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue
    growth and results of operations. These factors generally have
    the strongest effect on our sales of software licenses, and to a
    lesser extent, also affect our renewal rates for software
    license updates and product support.


 


    We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to
    inaccurate sales forecasts or other
    factors.  Our revenues, and particularly our
    new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and as
    a result our quarterly operating results can fluctuate
    substantially. We use a “pipeline” system, a common
    industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business.
    Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and
    estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the
    dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated
    periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline
    estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular
    quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the
    “conversion rate” of the pipeline into contracts can
    be very difficult to estimate. A contraction in the conversion
    rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or
    budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results
    of operations. In particular, a slowdown in information
    technology spending or economic conditions generally can reduce
    the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing
    decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. The
    conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of
    our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the
    hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede
    our ability to negotiate and execute these contracts in a timely
    manner. In addition, for newly acquired companies, we have
    limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into
    sales or revenues for one or two quarters following the
    acquisition and their conversion rate post-acquisition may be
    quite different from their historical conversion rate. Because a
    substantial portion of our new software license revenue
    contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter, and our
    cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue
    shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on
    our profitability. A delay in even a small number of large new
    software license transactions could cause our quarterly new
    software licenses revenues to fall significantly short of our
    predictions.


 


    Our success depends upon our ability to develop new
    products and services, integrate acquired products and services
    and enhance our existing products and
    services.  Rapid technological advances and
    evolving standards in computer hardware, software development
    and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly
    sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product
    introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise
    software market in which we compete. If we are unable to develop
    new products and services, or to enhance and improve our
    products and support services in a timely manner or to position
    and/or price
    our products and services to meet market demand, customers may
    not buy new software licenses or renew software license updates
    and product support. In addition, information technology
    standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting
    forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly
    evolving. We cannot provide any assurance that the standards on
    which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete
    effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    We are developing a next generation applications platform that
    is planned to combine the best features, flows and usability
    traits of our legacy and acquired applications. We have also
    announced that we intend to extend the life of many of our
    acquired applications and will continue to provide long-term
    support for our acquired products, both of which require us to
    dedicate resources. If we do not develop and release these new
    or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time
    frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of a new,
    enhanced or acquired product line or service, if we do not
    timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if
    we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired
    application lines or services, our business may be adversely
    affected.


 


    Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize
    the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the
    time of any transaction.  In the past three
    fiscal years, we have invested over $25 billion, in the
    aggregate, to acquire a number of companies, products, services
    and technologies. An active acquisition program is an important
    element of our overall corporate strategy and we expect to
    continue to make similar acquisitions in the future. Risks we
    may face in connection with our acquisition program include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s
    attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or
    integration activities;



 


     
        • 

    
    an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we
    expected, or we may pay more than the acquired company or assets
    are worth;



 


     
        • 

    
    our due diligence process may fail to identify all of the
    problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an
    acquired company or technology, including issues with the
    company’s intellectual property, product quality or product
    architecture, revenue recognition or other accounting practices
    or employee, customer or partner issues;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues if a
    larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew
    software license updates and product support, if we are unable
    to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if
    contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to
    recognize revenues on a timely basis;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may assume pre-existing contractual relationships of acquired
    companies that we would not have otherwise entered into, and
    exiting or modifying such relationships may be costly to us or
    disruptive to customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may face litigation or other claims in connection with, or
    may inherit claims or litigation risk as a result of, an
    acquisition, including claims from terminated employees,
    customers or other third parties;



 


     
        • 

    
    our relationship with current and new employees, customers,
    partners and distributors could be impaired;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or
    products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform
    standards, controls, procedures and policies;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may have multiple and overlapping product lines as a result
    of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported
    differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support
    and development of acquired products;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may assume pre-existing liabilities, whether known or
    unknown, of acquired companies which could be material;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental
    authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely
    basis, if it all, which could, among other things, prevent us
    from completing a transaction;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial
    acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to
    complete the acquisition in a timely manner;



 


     
        • 

    
    our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other
    potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases and
    retirement of outstanding indebtedness;






    
    14



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and
    debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for
    an acquisition; result of unforeseen difficulties in our
    integration activities;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may have legal and tax exposures or lose anticipated tax
    benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in our
    integration activities;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may
    otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or
    other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar
    bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an
    acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans
    in certain jurisdictions; and



 


     
        • 

    
    to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity
    securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing
    stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease.





 


    The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger
    acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions.


 


    We may not be able to protect our intellectual property
    rights.  We rely on copyright, trademark,
    patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures,
    controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual
    property rights. Despite our efforts, these protections may be
    limited. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse
    engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use
    our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be
    invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or
    future patent applications, whether or not being currently
    challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we
    seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not
    provide the same level of protection of our intellectual
    property rights as do the laws and courts of the United States.
    If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against
    unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may
    not remain competitive.


 


    Third parties may claim infringement or misuse of
    intellectual property rights and/ or breach of license agreement
    provisions.  We periodically receive notices
    from others claiming infringement, or other misuse of their
    intellectual property rights
    and/or
    breach of our agreements with them. We expect the number of such
    claims will increase as the number of products and competitors
    in our industry segments grows, the functionality of products
    overlap, the use and support of third-party code (including open
    source code) becomes more prevalent in the software industry,
    and the volume of issued software patents continues to increase.
    Responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    be time-consuming, costly
    and/or
    result in litigation;



 


     
        • 

    
    divert management’s time and attention from developing our
    business;



 


     
        • 

    
    require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and
    licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable;



 


     
        • 

    
    require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our
    products;



 


     
        • 

    
    require us to release source code to third parties, possibly
    under open source license terms;



 


     
        • 

    
    require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our
    customers; or



 


     
        • 

    
    otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations,
    financial condition or cash flows.





 


    A patent infringement case is discussed under Note 21 in
    our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    We may need to change our pricing models to compete
    successfully.  The intensely competitive
    markets in which we compete can put pressure on us to reduce our
    prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain
    products or services, we may need to lower prices or offer other
    favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such
    changes would likely reduce margins and could adversely affect
    operating results. Our software license updates and product
    support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our new
    license fees. Our competitors may offer a lower percentage
    pricing on product updates and support, which could put pressure
    on us to further discount our new license prices. Any
    broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could
    cause new software license and services revenues to decline or
    be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers
    adjust to the new pricing



    
    15



Table of Contents




    policies. Some of our competitors may bundle software products
    for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or
    provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These
    practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices
    that we can charge for our products. If we do not adapt our
    pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our
    products, our new software license revenues could decrease.
    Additionally, increased distribution of applications through
    application service providers may reduce the average price for
    our products or adversely affect other sales of our products,
    reducing new software license revenues unless we can offset
    price reductions with volume increases or lower spending. The
    increase in open source software distribution may also cause us
    to change our pricing models.


 


    We may be unable to compete effectively in a range of
    markets within the highly competitive software industry.
    Many vendors develop and market databases, internet
    application server products, application development tools,
    business applications, collaboration products and business
    intelligence products that compete with our offerings. In
    addition, several companies offer business process outsourcing
    (BPO) as a competitive alternative to buying software and
    customer interest in BPO solutions is increasing. Some of these
    competitors have greater financial or technical resources than
    we do. Our competitors that offer business applications and
    application server products may influence a customer’s
    purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to
    persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. We
    could lose market share if our competitors introduce new
    competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive
    products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other
    companies. Vendors that offer BPO solutions may persuade our
    customers not to purchase our products. We may also face
    increasing competition from open source software initiatives, in
    which competitors may provide software and intellectual property
    free. Existing or new competitors could gain market share in any
    of our markets at our expense.


 


    Our periodic sales force restructurings can be
    disruptive.  We continue to rely heavily on
    our direct sales force. We have in the past restructured or made
    other adjustments to our sales force in response to management
    changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and
    other internal and external considerations. In the past, sales
    force restructurings have generally resulted in a temporary lack
    of focus and reduced productivity; these effects could recur in
    connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and
    our revenues could be negatively affected.


 


    Disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our
    future operating results.  Our indirect
    channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system
    integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers,
    internet service providers, network integrators and independent
    software vendors. Our relationships with these channel
    participants are important elements of our marketing and sales
    efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if
    our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our
    relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if
    any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with
    or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial
    condition of our channel participants were to weaken. There can
    be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining,
    expanding or developing our relationships with channel
    participants. If we are not successful, we may lose sales
    opportunities, customers and market share.


 


    Charges to earnings resulting from past acquisitions may
    adversely affect our operating results.  Under
    purchase accounting, we allocate the total purchase price to an
    acquired company’s net tangible assets, intangible assets
    and in-process research and development based on their fair
    values as of the date of the acquisition and record the excess
    of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill.
    Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon
    assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently
    uncertain. Going forward, the following factors could result in
    material charges that would adversely affect our results:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    impairment of goodwill or intangible assets;



 


     
        • 

    
    identification of assumed contingent liabilities subsequent to
    the finalization of the purchase price allocation; and



 


     
        • 

    
    charges to income to eliminate certain Oracle pre-merger
    activities that duplicate those of the acquired company or to
    reduce our cost structure.





 


    Charges to earnings associated with acquisitions include
    amortization of intangible assets, in-process research and
    development as well as other acquisition related charges,
    restructuring and stock-based compensation associated



    
    16



Table of Contents




    with assumed stock awards. Charges to earnings in any given
    period could differ substantially from other periods based on
    the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of
    integration activities. See Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations—Supplemental Disclosure Related to Acquisition
    Accounting and Stock-Based Compensation” for additional
    information about charges to earnings associated with our recent
    acquisitions.


 


    We expect to continue to incur additional costs associated with
    combining the operations of our previously acquired companies,
    which may be substantial. Additional costs may include costs of
    employee redeployment, relocation and retention, including
    salary increases or bonuses, accelerated amortization of
    deferred equity compensation and severance payments,
    reorganization or closure of facilities, taxes and termination
    of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services.
    Some of these costs may have to be accounted for as expenses
    that would decrease our net income and earnings per share for
    the periods in which those adjustments are made.


 


    Our international sales and operations subject us to
    additional risks that can adversely affect our operating
    results.  We derive a substantial portion of
    our revenues, and have significant operations, outside of the
    United States. Our international operations include software
    development, sales, customer support and shared administrative
    service centers. We are subject to a variety of risks, including
    those related to general economic conditions in each country or
    region, regulatory changes, political unrest, terrorism and the
    potential for other hostilities and public health risks,
    particularly in areas in which we have significant operations.
    We face challenges in managing an organization operating in
    various countries, which can entail longer payment cycles and
    difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, overlapping tax
    regimes, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, difficulties
    in transferring funds from certain countries and reduced
    protection for intellectual property rights in some countries.
    We must comply with a variety of international laws and
    regulations, including trade restrictions, local labor
    ordinances, changes in tariff rates and import and export
    licensing requirements. Our success depends, in part, on our
    ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties.


 


    We are a majority shareholder of i-flex solutions limited, a
    publicly traded Indian software company focused on the banking
    industry. As the majority shareholder of an international
    entity, we are faced with several additional risks, including
    being subject to local securities regulations and being unable
    to exert full control or obtain financial and other information
    on a timely basis.


 


    We may experience foreign currency gains and
    losses.  We conduct a portion of our business
    in currencies other than the United States dollar. Our revenues
    and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar
    strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively
    affected when the dollar weakens. Changes in the value of major
    foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, Japanese Yen and
    British Pound relative to the United States dollar can
    significantly affect revenues and our operating results.


 


    Our foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily
    related to sublicense fees and other agreements among us and our
    subsidiaries and distributors, are charged against earnings in
    the period incurred. We enter into foreign exchange forward
    contracts to hedge certain transaction and translation exposures
    in major currencies, but we will continue to experience foreign
    currency gains and losses in certain instances where it is not
    possible or cost effective to hedge foreign currencies.


 


    Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand may not be
    successful.  We offer Oracle On Demand
    outsourcing services for our applications and database
    technology, delivered either at our data center facilities or at
    a site of our customer’s choosing. We also offer CRM On
    Demand, which is a service offering that provides our customers
    with our Siebel CRM software functionality delivered via a
    hosted solution that we manage. These business models continue
    to evolve and we may not be able to compete effectively,
    generate significant revenues or develop them into profitable
    businesses. We incur expenses associated with the
    infrastructures and marketing of our Oracle On Demand and CRM On
    Demand businesses in advance of our ability to recognize the
    revenues associated with our subscription-based contracts. These
    businesses are subject to a variety of risks including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demand for these services may not meet our expectations;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to operate these businesses at an acceptable
    profit level;






    
    17



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we manage critical customer applications, data and other
    confidential information through Oracle On Demand and CRM On
    Demand; accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant
    damage claims and risk to future business prospects in the event
    of system failures or inadequate disaster recovery or
    misappropriation of customer confidential information;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data
    privacy, data security and export compliance, as well as
    workforce reduction claims as a result of customers transferring
    their information technology functions to us;



 


     
        • 

    
    the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers
    are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security
    and use of offshore resources; changes in these laws could
    affect our ability to provide services from or to some locations
    and could increase both the costs and risks associated with
    providing the services;



 


     
        • 

    
    demand for these services may be affected by customer and media
    concerns about security risks
    and/or use
    of outsourced services providers more generally; and



 


     
        • 

    
    our offerings may require large fixed costs such as for data
    centers, computers, network infrastructure and security and we
    may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset these
    costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these
    offerings.





 


    We may be unable to hire enough qualified employees or we
    may lose key employees.  We rely on the
    continued service of our senior management, including our Chief
    Executive Officer, members of our executive team and other key
    employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In the
    software industry, there is substantial and continuous
    competition for highly skilled business, product development,
    technical and other personnel. In addition, acquisitions could
    cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at
    Oracle. We may experience increased compensation costs that are
    not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices. We
    may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in
    retaining and motivating existing personnel. With rare
    exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or
    non-competition agreements with our employees. Members of our
    senior management team have left Oracle over the years for a
    variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not
    be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our
    operations.


 


    We continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring
    personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is
    available at lower costs. When we make adjustments to our
    workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce
    reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce
    structure. We may also experience increased competition for
    employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization
    continues which may affect our employee retention efforts
    and/or
    increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive
    compensation program.


 


    Part of our total compensation program includes stock options.
    Stock options are an important tool in attracting and retaining
    employees in our industry. If our stock price performs poorly it
    may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees.
    In addition, because we now expense all stock-based
    compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and
    other compensation practices. Some of the changes we are
    considering include the reduction in the number of employees
    granted options, a reduction in the number of options granted
    and a change to alternative forms of stock-based compensation.
    Any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by
    competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate
    existing personnel and recruit new personnel.


 


    We might experience significant errors or security flaws
    in our products and services.  Despite testing
    prior to their release, software products frequently contain
    errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or
    when new versions are released. The detection and correction of
    any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in
    our software products could affect the ability of our products
    to work with other hardware or software products, could delay
    the development or release of new products or new versions of
    products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our
    products. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new
    products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. In
    addition, we run our own business operations, Oracle On Demand,
    and other outsourcing, support and consulting services, on our
    products and networks and any security flaws, if exploited,
    could affect our ability to conduct business operations. End
    users, who rely on our products and services for applications
    that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater
    sensitivity to product errors and security



    
    18



Table of Contents




    vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally.
    Software product errors and security flaws in our products or
    services could expose us to product liability, performance
    and/or
    warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could
    impact our future sales of products and services. In addition,
    we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches
    of our services, which could adversely impact future business
    prospects for those services.


 


    We may not receive significant revenues from our current
    research and development efforts for several years, if at
    all.  Developing and localizing software is
    expensive and the investment in product development often
    involves a long payback cycle. We have made and expect to
    continue to make significant investments in software research
    and development and related product opportunities. Accelerated
    product introductions and short product life cycles require high
    levels of expenditures for research and development that could
    adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue
    increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a
    significant amount of resources to our research and development
    efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not
    expect to receive significant revenues from these investments
    for several years if at all.


 


    Our sales to government clients subject us to risks
    including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions
    and penalties.  We derive revenues from
    contracts with the United States government, state and local
    governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate
    most of these contracts at any time, without cause.


 


    There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies,
    both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Our
    federal government contracts are subject to the approval of
    appropriations being made by the United States Congress to fund
    the expenditures under these contracts. Similarly, our contracts
    at the state and local levels are subject to government funding
    authorizations.


 


    Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to
    audits and investigations which could result in various civil
    and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including
    termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received,
    forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and
    suspensions or debarment from future government business.


 


    Business disruptions could affect our operating
    results.  A significant portion of our
    research and development activities and certain other critical
    business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas.
    We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure
    of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and
    providing services, including some of our On Demand offerings. A
    major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results
    in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business
    or information technology systems could severely affect our
    ability to conduct normal business operations and as a result
    our future operating results could be materially and adversely
    affected.


 


    Adverse litigation results could affect our
    business.  We are subject to various legal
    proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive, and
    disruptive to our operations and results cannot be predicted
    with certainty. An adverse decision could result in monetary
    damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business,
    operating results or financial condition. Additional information
    regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is
    discussed under Note 21 in our Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.


 


    PeopleSoft’s Customer Assurance Program may expose us
    to substantial liabilities if triggered.  In
    June 2003, in response to our tender offer, PeopleSoft
    implemented what it referred to as the “customer assurance
    program” or “CAP”. The CAP incorporated a
    provision in PeopleSoft’s standard licensing arrangement
    that purports to contractually burden Oracle, as a result of its
    acquisition of PeopleSoft, with a contingent obligation to make
    payments to PeopleSoft customers should Oracle fail to take
    certain business actions for a fixed period of time subsequent
    to the acquisition. The payment obligation, which typically
    expires four years from the date of the contract, is fixed at an
    amount generally between two and five times the license and
    first year support fees paid to PeopleSoft in the applicable
    license transaction. This purported obligation was not reflected
    as a liability on PeopleSoft’s balance sheet as PeopleSoft
    concluded that it could be triggered only following the
    consummation of an acquisition. PeopleSoft used six different
    standard versions of the CAP over the
    18-month
    period commencing June 2003. PeopleSoft ceased using the CAP on
    December 29, 2004, the date on which we acquired a
    controlling interest in PeopleSoft. We have concluded that, as
    of the date of the PeopleSoft acquisition, the penalty
    provisions under the CAP represented a contingent liability of
    Oracle. The aggregate potential CAP obligation as of
    May 31,



    
    19



Table of Contents




    2007 was $3.2 billion. Unless the CAP provisions are
    removed from these licensing arrangements, we do not expect the
    aggregate potential CAP obligation to decline substantially
    until fiscal year 2008 when a significant number of these
    provisions begin to expire. The last CAP obligation will expire
    on December 31, 2008. We have not recorded a liability
    related to the CAP, as we do not believe it is probable that our
    post-acquisition activities related to the PeopleSoft product
    line will trigger an obligation to make any payment pursuant to
    the CAP.


 


    In addition, while no assurance can be given as to the ultimate
    outcome of litigation, we believe we would also have substantial
    defenses with respect to the legality and enforceability of the
    CAP contract provisions in response to any claims seeking
    payment from Oracle under the CAP terms. While we have taken
    extensive steps to assure customers that we intend to continue
    developing and supporting the PeopleSoft and JD Edwards product
    lines and as of May 31, 2007 we have not received any
    claims for CAP payments, PeopleSoft customers may assert claims
    for CAP payments.


 


    We may have exposure to additional tax
    liabilities.  As a multinational corporation,
    we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based
    taxes, in both the United States and various foreign
    jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining
    our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax
    liabilities.


 


    In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many
    intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate
    tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by
    tax authorities. Our intercompany transfer pricing is currently
    being reviewed by the IRS and by foreign tax jurisdictions and
    will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. We
    previously negotiated three unilateral Advance Pricing
    Agreements with the IRS that cover many of our intercompany
    transfer pricing issues and preclude the IRS from making a
    transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these
    agreements. However, these agreements, which are effective for
    fiscal years through May 31, 2006, do not cover all
    elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities
    outside the United States. We have finalized one bilateral
    Advance Pricing Agreement and currently are negotiating an
    additional bilateral agreement to cover the period from
    June 1, 2001 through May 31, 2008. There can be no
    guarantee that such negotiations will result in an agreement.


 


    Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we
    cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or
    tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our
    historical income tax provisions and accruals.


 


    We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales,
    use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services
    taxes, in both the United States and various foreign
    jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities
    with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to
    additional non-income tax liabilities. Our acquisition
    activities have increased our non-income tax exposures.


 


    There are risks associated with our outstanding
    indebtedness.  As of May 31, 2007, we had
    an aggregate of $6.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness
    that will mature between 2009 and 2016 and we may incur
    additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay
    interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is
    dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations and
    the other factors discussed in this section. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks
    successfully. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our
    outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value and
    liquidity of both our debt and equity securities.


 


    Our stock price could become more volatile and your
    investment could lose value.  All of the
    factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price.
    The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new
    products, product enhancements or technological advances by our
    competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions,
    major transactions, or management changes could also affect our
    stock price. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the
    press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or
    earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in
    investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our
    stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our
    performance. A significant drop in our stock price could also
    expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits,
    which could result in substantial costs and divert
    management’s attention and resources, which could adversely
    affect our business.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B