Item 1A. Risk Factors. When used in this report, the words
    “expects,” “anticipates,”
    “intends,” “plans,” “believes,”
    “seeks,” “estimates” and similar expressions
    are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
    You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking
    statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of
    this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly
    release any revisions to the forward-looking statements after
    the date of this document. You should carefully review the risk
    factors described in other documents we file from time to time
    with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including
    the Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q
    to be filed by us in our 2010 fiscal year, which runs from
    June 1, 2009 to May 31, 2010.


 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    We are the world’s largest enterprise software company. We
    develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database
    and middleware software as well as applications software
    designed to help our customers manage and grow their business
    operations.


 


    Our goal is to offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and
    integrated software solutions that improve transactional
    efficiencies, adapt to an organization’s unique needs and
    allow better ways to access and manage information and automate
    business processes at a lower total cost of ownership. We seek
    to be an industry leader in each of the specific product
    categories in which we compete and to expand into new and
    emerging markets.


 


    We believe our internal, or organic, growth and continued
    innovation with respect to our core database, middleware and
    applications technologies provide the foundation for our
    long-term strategic plan. In fiscal 2009, we invested
    $2.8 billion in research and development to enhance our
    existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new
    products, features and services.


 


    An active acquisition program is another important element of
    our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested
    billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary
    companies, products, services and technologies. We believe our
    acquisition program supports our long-term strategic direction,
    strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base,
    provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our
    revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. We
    expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and
    technologies.


 


    On April 19, 2009, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of
    Merger with Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun), a provider of
    enterprise computing systems, software and services, under which
    we have agreed to acquire all outstanding shares of Sun for
    $9.50 per share in cash. The estimated total purchase price for
    Sun is approximately $7.4 billion. The transaction is
    subject to Sun stockholder approval, regulatory clearances and
    other customary closing conditions.


 


    Oracle Corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a Delaware
    corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun
    in June 1977.


 



    Software
    and Services


 


    We are organized into two businesses, software and services,
    which are further divided into five operating segments. Our
    software business is comprised of two operating segments:
    (1) new software licenses and (2) software license
    updates and product support. Our services business is comprised
    of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) On
    Demand and (3) education. Our software and services
    businesses represented 81% and 19% of our total revenues,
    respectively, in fiscal 2009, 80% and 20% of our total revenues,
    respectively, in fiscal 2008 and 79% and 21% of our



    
    1



Table of Contents




    total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2007. See Note 15
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    information related to our operating segments.


 



    Software
    Business 


 



    New
    Software Licenses


 


    The new software licenses operating segment of our software
    business includes the licensing of database and middleware
    software, which consists of Oracle Databases and Oracle Fusion
    Middleware, as well as applications software. Our technology and
    business solutions are based on an internet model comprised of
    interconnected databases, application servers, as well as mobile
    devices. This architecture enables users to access business data
    and applications through a web browser interface, and is
    designed to provide customers with the most efficient and cost
    effective method of managing business information and
    applications.


 


    In an internet model, database servers manage and protect a
    customer’s underlying business information, while
    application servers run the business applications that automate
    a myriad of business functions. Our architecture provides high
    quality business information and can be adapted to the specific
    needs of any industry or application. Oracle technology operates
    on both single server and clustered server configurations, which
    we refer to as “grid” software, and supports a choice
    of operating systems including Linux, Windows and UNIX. Our
    applications software is designed to help customers reduce the
    cost and complexity of their IT infrastructures by delivering
    industry solutions via an open, integrated and standards-based
    architecture that supports customer choice and reduces customer
    risk by automating business functions.


 


    New software license revenues include fees earned from granting
    customers licenses to use our software products and exclude
    revenues derived from software license updates and product
    support. The standard end user software license agreement for
    our products provides for an initial fee to use the product in
    perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users
    or other metrics. We also have other types of software license
    agreements restricted by the number of employees or the license
    term. New software license revenues represented 31%, 34% and 33%
    of total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.


 



    Database
    and Middleware Software


 


    Our database and middleware software offerings provide a
    cost-effective, high-performance platform for running and
    managing business applications for mid-size businesses and large
    global enterprises. With an increasing focus by enterprises on
    reducing their total cost of IT infrastructure, our software is
    designed to accommodate demanding, non-stop business
    environments, using low cost server, storage and application
    grids that can incrementally scale as required. The ability to
    assign computing resources as required simplifies our
    customers’ IT capacity, planning and procurement to support
    all of their business applications. With an Oracle grid
    infrastructure, our customers can lower their investment in
    servers and storage, reduce their risk of data loss and IT
    infrastructure downtime and efficiently utilize available IT
    resources to meet business users’ quality of service
    expectations. New software license revenues from database and
    middleware products represented 72%, 68% and 71% of our new
    software license revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.


 



    Databases


 


    As the world’s most popular database, Oracle Database
    enables the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all
    forms of data, including business application and analytics
    data, and unstructured data in the form of XML files, office
    documents, images, video and spatial data. Designed for
    enterprise grid computing, the Oracle Database is available in
    four editions: Express Edition, Standard Edition One, Standard
    Edition and Enterprise Edition. All editions are built using the
    same underlying code, which means that our database software can
    easily scale from small, single processor servers to clusters of
    multi-processor servers.



    
    2



Table of Contents




    A number of optional offerings are available with Oracle
    Database Enterprise Edition to address specific customer
    requirements in the areas of performance and scalability, high
    availability, data security and compliance, data warehousing,
    information management and systems management. Examples of these
    options include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Real Application Clusters, which enables any Oracle
    Database application to share more efficiently the processing
    power and memory capacity of a fault tolerant cluster of servers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Advanced Compression, which enables customers to reduce
    the amount of disk space required to store all their business
    information and improve query performance;




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Partitioning, which breaks down large database tables
    into smaller segments for faster query performance and easier
    management of data throughout its lifecycle; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle In-Memory Database Cache, which improves application
    performance by caching or storing critical parts of Oracle
    Database in the main memory of the application tier.





 


    In addition to the four editions of Oracle Database, we also
    offer a selection of specialized databases:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Oracle TimesTen In-Memory Database, which is a memory-optimized
    relational database that delivers low latency and high
    throughput for applications requiring real-time performance in
    industries such as communications, financial services and
    defense;




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Berkeley DB, which is a family of open source,
    embeddable, non-relational databases that allows developers to
    incorporate a fast, scalable and reliable database engine within
    their applications and devices; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Oracle Database Lite, which is a comprehensive solution for
    developing, deploying and managing applications for mobile and
    embedded environments. It consists of a small footprint
    relational database that runs on many devices and platforms, a
    mobile server that synchronizes data between the mobile devices
    and Oracle Database, and mobile application development tools.





 


    We also offer a selection of products that are complementary to
    our database offerings. These include Oracle Exadata, Oracle
    Enterprise Manager and Oracle Audit Vault.


 



    Oracle
    Exadata
    


 


    Oracle Exadata is a family of high performance storage software
    and hardware products that is designed to improve data warehouse
    query performance. Built using smart storage software from
    Oracle and industry-standard hardware from Hewlett-Packard
    Company (HP), it uses a parallel architecture to increase data
    bandwidth between database servers and storage. In addition, it
    enables query processing closer to the data, resulting in faster
    query processing and less data movement through high bandwidth
    connections. The Oracle Exadata Storage Server is based on HP
    servers with Oracle Exadata software pre-installed. It is
    designed to be an industry-standard storage server, which offers
    linear scalability and mission-critical reliability, in addition
    to fast query processing. Oracle Exadata Storage Servers are
    also the building block for the Oracle Database Machine that is
    designed for large, multi-terabyte data warehouses. The Oracle
    Database Machine packages together software, servers, and
    storage that can scale to support data warehouses and business
    intelligence applications.


 



    Oracle
    Enterprise Manager
    


 


    Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to deliver top-down
    applications and software infrastructure management. Our
    customers use Oracle Enterprise Manager to monitor and manage
    their applications and underlying software infrastructure,
    including both Oracle and non-Oracle infrastructure products.
    Oracle Enterprise Manager can be used to manage packaged
    applications, such as our Siebel, PeopleSoft, Oracle
    E-Business
    Suite or custom applications including Service-Oriented
    Architecture applications. In addition to managing Oracle
    software infrastructure products including the Oracle Database,
    Oracle Fusion Middleware and Oracle WebLogic Server, Oracle
    Enterprise Manager also supports other third-party
    infrastructure products.


 


    Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to monitor service levels
    and performance, automate tasks, manage configuration
    information, and provide change management in a unified way
    across groups of computers or grids.



    
    3



Table of Contents




    Oracle Enterprise Manager’s provisioning automates the
    discovery, tracking and scheduling of software patches and
    allows IT administrators to apply patches without taking their
    system down. Additionally, IT administrators can manage systems
    from anywhere through an HTML browser or through wireless mobile
    devices.


 



    Oracle Audit
    Vault
    


 


    Oracle Audit Vault is designed to reduce the cost and complexity
    of compliance reporting and detection of unauthorized activities
    by automating the collection and consolidation of enterprise
    audit data. Oracle Database provides one of the most advanced
    auditing capabilities of any database management system. With
    Oracle Audit Vault, security and database administrators can
    manage audit policies across their enterprise and automatically
    collect audit data from Oracle and non-Oracle databases into a
    centralized, tamper resistant repository. This secure repository
    is built on Oracle’s scalable architecture to allow
    retention and aggregation of terabytes of audit data for
    analysis and reporting. Audit Vault analyzes audit data in
    real-time based upon enterprise defined policies, issues alerts
    for unauthorized activities, and provides built-in reports for
    demonstrating the IT controls required to comply with internal
    control assessments, including provisions of the
    U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other data privacy and
    protection regulations.


 



    Middleware


 


    Oracle Fusion Middleware is a broad family of application
    infrastructure products that forms a reliable and scalable
    foundation on which customers can build, deploy, secure, access
    and integrate business applications and automate their business
    processes. Oracle Fusion Middleware suites and products can be
    used in conjunction with custom, packaged and composite
    applications. Oracle Fusion Middleware is available in various
    products and suites, including the below functional areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Application Server and Application Grid;




 



     
        • 

    
    Business Intelligence;




 



     
        • 

    
    Identity and Access Management;




 



     
        • 

    
    Content Management;




 



     
        • 

    
    Portal and User Interaction;




 



     
        • 

    
    Service-Oriented Architecture and Business Process Management;




 



     
        • 

    
    Data Integration; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Development Tools





 


    Oracle Fusion Middleware is designed to protect customers’
    IT investments and work with both Oracle and non-Oracle
    database, middleware and applications products through its
    “hot-pluggable” architecture (which enables customers
    to easily install and use Oracle Fusion Middleware products
    within their existing IT environments) and adherence to industry
    standards such as Java EE (formerly J2EE) and Business Process
    Execution Language (BPEL), among others.


 


    By using Oracle Fusion Middleware, our customers increase their
    capacity to adapt to business changes rapidly, reduce their
    risks related to security and compliance, increase user
    productivity and drive better business decisions. Specifically,
    Oracle Fusion Middleware enables customers to easily integrate
    heterogeneous business applications, automate business
    processes, scale applications to meet customer demand, simplify
    security and compliance, manage lifecycles of documents and get
    actionable, targeted business intelligence, while continuing to
    utilize their existing IT systems. In addition, Oracle Fusion
    Middleware supports multiple development languages and tools,
    which allows developers to build and deploy web services, web
    sites, portals and web-based applications. Oracle’s Fusion
    Middleware is used to support Oracle applications, other
    enterprise applications, independent software vendors that build
    their own custom applications and business processes that span
    multiple application environments.



    
    4



Table of Contents





    Application
    Server and Application Grid
    


 


    The foundation of Oracle Fusion Middleware is Oracle WebLogic
    Server. Designed for grid computing, Oracle WebLogic Server
    incorporates clustering and caching technology, which increases
    application reliability, performance, security and scalability.
    Our ongoing development of existing Oracle Fusion Middleware
    products, combined with our acquisition of BEA Systems, Inc. in
    fiscal 2008, enables us to provide our customers with additional
    application grid capabilities, including Oracle Coherence for
    rapid access to information, Oracle JRockit to create Java
    virtual machines and the scalable messaging and transaction
    processing platform products of Oracle Tuxedo.


 



    Business
    Intelligence
    


 


    Oracle Business Intelligence (BI) provides visibility into how
    customers’ businesses are performing and helps them plan
    and model to improve that performance. BI is a portfolio of
    technology and applications that provides an integrated
    end-to-end
    system called Enterprise Performance Management (EPM) that
    unites our BI foundation and data warehousing products with our
    BI and EPM applications (described further below) to offer our
    customers an enterprise-wide business intelligence platform.


 


    Our BI foundation products include Oracle BI
    Suite Enterprise Edition Plus, Oracle BI Standard Edition
    One, Oracle Essbase and Oracle BI Publisher. Our BI foundation
    products deliver customers a comprehensive set of business
    intelligence tools, including interactive dashboards, ad hoc
    query and analysis, proactive detection and alerts, advanced
    reporting and publishing, real-time predictive intelligence,
    mobile analytics and desktop gadgets.


 


    Our data integration and warehousing products enable the
    extraction, transformation and loading of quality data in order
    for that data to be accurately searched and analyzed.


 



    Identity and
    Access Management
    


 


    Oracle Identity and Access Management products and suites make
    it easier for our customers to manage multiple user identities,
    provision users in multiple enterprise applications and systems
    and manage access privileges for customers, employees and
    partners. Our customers use Oracle Identity and Access
    Management offerings to secure their information from potential
    threats and increase compliance levels, while lowering the total
    cost of their security and compliance initiatives.


 



    Content
    Management
    


 


    Unstructured information, which is data that is not easily
    readable or has not been stored so that it can be used
    efficiently, makes up a large portion of all the information
    residing in most businesses and public sector entities. Oracle
    Content Management solutions provide a comprehensive set of
    capabilities to create, capture, publish, share and collaborate
    on, archive, retain, manage business process flows and manage
    information access rights to documents and other unstructured
    content file types. Oracle Content Management solutions support
    an extensive set of document and image formats. Specific
    benefits include the ability to use external facing websites as
    strategic marketing assets and rapid communication channels, to
    automate paper-based processes and to enforce document retention
    and security policies.


 



    Portal and
    User Interaction
    


 


    Oracle WebCenter Suite enables personalized web portals and
    task-oriented web applications to be developed and deployed, all
    with single sign-on access and security. These features provide
    users with a single interface through which they can access
    information from any number of enterprise applications, systems,
    information sources and processes. Oracle WebCenter also
    includes integrated Enterprise 2.0 capabilities that enable
    customers to work together in teams via the internet and
    capitalize on “collective intelligence” within their
    enterprise and with their partners and customers. The addition
    of Oracle WebCenter Services in fiscal 2009 includes the ability
    to incorporate these Enterprise 2.0 capabilities into existing
    portal environments, including those built with Oracle Portal,
    Oracle WebLogic Portal and Oracle WebCenter Interaction
    (formerly AquaLogic User Interaction).



    
    5



Table of Contents





    Service-Oriented
    Architecture Suite and Business Process Management
    


 


    Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) is an IT strategy that
    creates a modular, re-usable approach to applications
    development and reduces the need for costly custom development.
    Oracle SOA Suite is a complete set of service infrastructure
    components for creating, deploying, and managing SOAs, including
    Oracle JDeveloper, Oracle BPEL Process Manager, Oracle Web
    Services Manager, Oracle Business Rules, Oracle Business
    Activity Monitoring, and Oracle Service Bus. The combination of
    Oracle Business Process Management and Oracle SOA Suite enables
    business and IT professionals to collaborate, implement,
    automate and change business processes in a comprehensive
    fashion, which accelerates development and transition time and
    reduces costly quality assurance cycles. Oracle SOA Suite is
    “hot-pluggable”, enabling customers to easily extend
    and evolve their architectures instead of replacing existing
    investments. Oracle SOA Governance maintains the security and
    integrity of our customers’ SOA deployments.


 



    Data
    Integration
    


 


    Through Oracle Data Integration Suite, we offer
    best-of-breed
    and unified data integration technologies that enable customers
    to build, deploy and manage enterprise business data. Our Data
    Integration foundation allows enterprise data architects to
    unify, manage, replicate, migrate and distribute data into
    enterprise applications and orchestrated business processes.
    With our open and “hot-pluggable” data integration
    components, organizations can continue to use and evolve their
    IT infrastructure instead of replacing it. Oracle Data
    Integration Suite can extract data from one system and load it
    into another (such as a data warehouse) and then rapidly
    transform the data into a new format. It also includes
    technology to address data quality and data profiling.


 



    Developer
    Tools
    


 


    Oracle JDeveloper is an integrated software environment designed
    to facilitate rapid development of Java applications, portlets,
    web services, process models and Rich Internet Applications
    (RIA) such as Flash and AJAX, among others. Oracle JDeveloper
    provides a comprehensive Java development environment for
    modeling, building, debugging and testing
    enterprise-class Java EE applications and web services. It
    is also integrated with the Oracle Application Development
    Framework (ADF), which provides a framework for building
    applications, including a set of components that enable
    developers to build RIA based on Java user interface standards
    and deploy the applications to take advantage of modern RIA
    technologies.


 



    Applications
    Software


 


    Our applications software strategy is designed to help customers
    reduce the cost and complexity of their IT infrastructures, by
    delivering industry solutions that are complete, open, and
    integrated. Through a focused strategy of investments in organic
    research and development and strategic acquisitions, we provide
    industry-specific solutions for customers in over 20 industries,
    from retail and communications to financial services and the
    public sector. Our solutions are delivered on an open,
    standards-based architecture to support customer choice, reduce
    customer risk and enable customers to differentiate their
    businesses using our technologies. New software license revenues
    from applications software represented 28%, 32% and 29% of new
    software license revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.


 


    Central to our applications strategy is our Applications
    Unlimited program, which is our commitment to offer customers
    that purchase software license updates and product support
    contracts a choice as to when they wish to upgrade to the next
    generation of the products they own. Until our customers reach a
    decision to upgrade to the next generation of the products they
    own, we protect their investments in their applications by
    offering them the ability to purchase software license updates
    and product support contracts for their existing products.
    Solutions such as Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle Business
    Intelligence Suite, Oracle WebCenter, and Oracle User
    Productivity Kit are designed to help customers extend the
    benefits of their IT investments in our applications, to reduce
    their investment risk, and to support their evolution to the
    next generation of enterprise software that best fits their
    needs.


 


    We also protect our customers’ investments in Oracle
    applications by delivering new product releases that incorporate
    customer-specific and industry-specific innovations across
    product lines. Since announcing our Applications Unlimited
    program in fiscal 2005, we have delivered a number of new
    product releases and



    
    6



Table of Contents




    enhancements. In fiscal 2009, we continued our product
    investment with new versions of Oracle
    E-Business
    Suite, JD Edwards EnterpriseOne, JD Edwards World and Siebel
    Customer Relationship Management, including CRM On Demand.


 


    Our applications software products combine business
    functionality with innovative technologies such as role-based
    analytics, secure search, identity management, self-service and
    workflow to deliver adaptive industry processes, business
    intelligence and insights, and optimal end-user productivity.
    Our applications software products enable efficient management
    of all core business functions, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Enterprise resource planning (ERP),




 



     
        • 

    
    Customer relationship management (CRM),




 



     
        • 

    
    Enterprise performance management (EPM),




 



     
        • 

    
    Enterprise project portfolio management (EPPM),




 



     
        • 

    
    Product lifecycle management (PLM), and




 



     
        • 

    
    Industry-specific applications.





 


    Our applications software products are offered as integrated
    suites or available on a component basis, and all are built on
    open architectures that are designed for flexible configuration
    and open, multi-vendor integration. Our applications are
    available in multiple languages, and support a broad range of
    location specific requirements, enabling companies to support
    both global and local business practices and legal requirements.


 


    Oracle Application Integration Architecture provides an open,
    standards-based framework for creating adaptable,
    cross-application business processes. For customers looking to
    quickly deploy integrations between Oracle applications, Oracle
    Application Integration Architecture also offers packaged
    integrations, allowing for rapid implementation of
    mission-critical business applications.


 



    Enterprise
    Resource Planning (ERP)
    


 


    Companies use our ERP applications to automate and integrate a
    variety of their key global business processes, including:
    manufacturing, order entry, accounts receivable and payable,
    general ledger, purchasing, warehousing, transportation and
    human resources. Our ERP applications combine business
    functionality with innovative technologies such as workflow and
    self-service applications in order to enable companies to lower
    the cost of their business operations by providing their
    customers, suppliers and employees with self-service internet
    access to both transaction processing and critical business
    information.


 



    Customer
    Relationship Management (CRM)
    


 


    We offer a complete set of CRM applications that manage all of
    the business processes and associated systems that touch a
    customer, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Billing and delivery;




 



     
        • 

    
    Sales solutions that provide a single repository for customer
    and supply chain information; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Service solutions that increase customer satisfaction by
    providing visibility into customer billing and order information.





 



    Enterprise
    Performance Management (EPM)
    


 


    We offer a full spectrum of EPM applications that are open,
    industry-specific analytic applications with capabilities such
    as interactive dashboarding and embedded analytic functionality
    for delivering insight across the enterprise. Our business
    analytics solution is tailored to 20 industries, giving
    customers the ability to monitor, analyze and act upon business
    intelligence while providing
    end-to-end
    visibility into a customer’s operations and financial
    performance. Our performance management applications, combined
    with our BI analytics, BI foundation and data warehousing
    products, enable us to offer our customers an integrated,
    end-to-end
    EPM system that spans



    
    7



Table of Contents




    planning, consolidation, operational analytic applications,
    business intelligence tools, reporting and data integration, all
    on a unified business intelligence platform.


 



    Enterprise
    Project Portfolio Management (EPPM)
    


 


    With our acquisition of Primavera Software, Inc. in the second
    quarter of fiscal 2009, we added EPPM software solutions for
    project-intensive industries such as engineering and
    construction, aerospace and defense, utilities, oil and gas,
    manufacturing, and professional services. Our EPPM solutions
    help companies propose, prioritize and select project
    investments and plan, manage and control the most complex
    projects and project portfolios.


 



    Industry
    Applications
    


 


    Our applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of
    industry-specific solutions. As a part of our strategy, we
    strive to ensure that our applications portfolio addresses the
    major industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in
    key industries. We continue to expand our offerings in a number
    of other key industries we view as strategic to our future
    growth, including retail, banking and financial services,
    communications, utilities, health sciences, insurance,
    manufacturing, education, professional services, and the public
    sector. In fiscal 2009, we added expertise in the social
    services industry through our acquisition of Haley Limited, a
    leading provider of policy modeling and automation software for
    legislative and regulated industries such as public sector,
    financial services, and insurance.


 



    Software
    License Updates and Product Support


 


    We seek to protect and enhance our customers’ current
    investments in Oracle technology and applications by offering
    proactive and personalized support services, including our
    Lifetime Support policy, product enhancements and upgrades.
    Software license updates provide customers with rights to
    unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases
    and patches released during the term of the support period.
    Product support includes internet and telephone access to
    technical support personnel located in our global support
    centers, as well as internet access to technical content through
    My Oracle Support. Software license updates and product support
    are generally priced as a percentage of the new software license
    fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase software
    license updates and product support when they acquire new
    software licenses. In addition, substantially all of our
    customers renew their software license updates and product
    support contracts annually. We also offer Oracle Unbreakable
    Linux Support, which provides enterprise level support for the
    Linux operating system and Oracle VM server virtualization
    software support.


 


    Our software license updates and product support revenues
    represented 50% of total revenues in fiscal 2009, and 46% of
    total revenues in both fiscal 2008 and 2007.


 



    Services
    Business


 



    Consulting


 


    Oracle Consulting assists our customers in successfully
    deploying our applications and technology products. Our
    consulting services include: business/IT strategy alignment;
    business process simplification; solution integration; and
    product implementation, enhancements, and upgrades. These
    services help our customers achieve measurable business results,
    manage their total cost of ownership and reduce the risk
    associated with their product deployment.


 


    Oracle Consulting employs consulting professionals globally to
    engage our customers directly, as well as to provide specialized
    expertise to our global systems integrator partners. Oracle
    Consulting utilizes a global blended delivery model to achieve
    economies of scale for our customers. This global delivery model
    consists of onsite consultants within the customer’s local
    geography as well as consultants in our global delivery and
    solution centers. Consulting revenues represented 14%, 15% and
    16% of total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.


 



    On
    Demand


 


    On Demand includes our Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer
    Services offerings. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured
    software and hardware management, and maintenance services for
    customers that deploy



    
    8



Table of Contents




    over the internet our database, middleware and applications
    software delivered at our data center facilities, select partner
    data centers or physically
    on-site at
    customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services consists of
    solution lifecycle management services, database and application
    management services, industry-specific solution support centers,
    and remote and
    on-site
    expert services. On Demand revenues represented 3% of total
    revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007.


 



    Education


 


    We provide training to customers, partners and employees as a
    part of our mission of accelerating the adoption of our
    technology around the world. We currently offer thousands of
    courses covering all of our product offerings. Our training is
    provided primarily through public and private instructor-led
    classroom events, but is also made available through a variety
    of online courses and self paced media training on CD-ROMs. Most
    recently, Oracle University launched live virtual class
    offerings that allow students anywhere in the world to connect
    to a live instructor-led class. In addition, we also offer a
    certification program certifying database administrators,
    developers and implementers. Oracle University also offers user
    adoption services designed to provide comprehensive training
    services to help customers get the most out of their investment
    in Oracle. Education revenues represented 2% of total revenues
    in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007.


 



    Marketing
    and Sales


 



    Sales
    Distribution Channels


 


    We directly market and sell our products and services primarily
    through our subsidiary sales and service organizations. In the
    United States, our sales and service employees are based in our
    headquarters and in field offices throughout the country.
    Outside the United States, our international subsidiaries
    license and support our products in their local countries as
    well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate
    through a direct sales subsidiary.


 


    We also market our products worldwide through indirect channels.
    The companies that comprise our indirect channel network are
    members of the Oracle PartnerNetwork. The Oracle PartnerNetwork
    is a global program that manages our business relationships with
    a large, broad-based network of companies, including independent
    software vendors, system integrators and resellers who deliver
    innovative solutions and services based upon our products. By
    offering our partners access to our premier products,
    educational information, technical services, marketing and sales
    support, the Oracle PartnerNetwork program extends our market
    reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to
    be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally.


 



    International
    Markets


 


    We sell our products and provide services globally. Our
    geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical
    expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our
    operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific
    economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage
    of new markets for our products. A summary of our domestic and
    international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in
    Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Seasonality
    and Cyclicality


 


    Our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale
    of our products and services. Our revenues and operating margins
    are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in
    our first fiscal quarter. General economic conditions also have
    an impact on our business and financial results. The markets in
    which we sell our products and services have, at times,
    experienced weak economic conditions that have negatively
    affected our revenues. See “Selected Quarterly Financial
    Data” in Item 7 of this Annual Report for a more
    complete description of the seasonality and cyclicality of our
    revenues, expenses and margins.



    
    9



Table of Contents





    Customers


 


    Our customer base consists of a significant number of businesses
    of many sizes and industries, government agencies, educational
    institutions and resellers. No single customer accounted for 10%
    or more of our total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007.


 



    Competition


 


    The enterprise software industry is highly fragmented, intensely
    competitive and evolving rapidly. We compete in various segments
    of this industry including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    database software (including the sale of our Exadata database
    machine, which is hardware sold with preconfigured Oracle
    database software and is more fully described above);




 



     
        • 

    
    middleware (including application server, business intelligence,
    data integration, portal server and identity management);




 



     
        • 

    
    enterprise applications;




 



     
        • 

    
    content management and collaboration;




 



     
        • 

    
    development tools;




 



     
        • 

    
    enterprise management software;




 



     
        • 

    
    Software-as-a-Service;




 



     
        • 

    
    hosted and On Demand solutions;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating systems (by virtue of our distribution of Enterprise
    Linux);




 



     
        • 

    
    virtualization software; and




 



     
        • 

    
    consulting/systems integration.





 


    Key competitive factors in each of the segments that we compete
    include: total cost of ownership, performance, scalability,
    functionality, ease of use, compliance with open standards,
    product reliability, Service-Oriented Architecture, security and
    quality of technical support. Our customers are also demanding
    less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation,
    sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their
    enterprise software, which has led increasingly to our product
    offerings (particularly our database, middleware and
    applications) being viewed as a “stack” of software
    designed to work together in a standards-compliant environment.


 


    Our product sales (and the relative strength of our products
    versus our competitors’ products) are also directly and
    indirectly affected by the following, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the broader “platform” competition between industry
    standard Java EE (formerly, J2EE) programming platform by Sun
    Microsystems, Inc. (Sun) and the .NET programming environment of
    Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft);




 



     
        • 

    
    operating system competition among, primarily, Microsoft’s
    Windows Server, Unix (including Sun’s Solaris, HP-UX from
    Hewlett Packard Company (HP) and AIX from International Business
    Machines Corporation (IBM)) and Linux;




 



     
        • 

    
    open source alternatives to commercial software, which are
    typically offered free of charge, subject to certain
    restrictions, and are readily available over the internet. Open
    source vendors will typically charge fees for commercial
    versions or unrestricted licenses of these products and for
    technical support of these products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offerings, which also continue to
    alter the competitive landscape.






    
    10



Table of Contents



 


    The following lists of competitors are necessarily incomplete
    due to the nature of the enterprise software industry, where the
    competitive landscape is constantly evolving as firms emerge,
    expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as customer
    demands and competitive pressures otherwise change:


 


    In the sale of database software, scalability, reliability,
    availability and security are key competitive differentiators
    for us. Our competitors include IBM, Microsoft, Sybase, Inc.
    (Sybase), NCR Corporation’s Teradata division, SAS
    Institute, Inc., Netezza Corporation, Progress Software
    Corporation (Progress Software) and open source databases such
    as Sun’s MySQL, Ingres and PostgreSQL, among others. Our
    ability to continually innovate and differentiate our database
    product offerings has enabled us to maintain our leading
    position in database software over our competitors.


 


    In the sale of middleware products, our offerings include
    application server and application grid, business intelligence,
    identity and access management, portal and user interaction,
    Service-Oriented Architecture and business process management,
    and data integration. Our ability to offer a full range of rich
    functionality in a standards-based, open architecture has been a
    key competitive differentiator which has contributed to rapid
    growth of our middleware solutions in recent years relative to
    our competitors. Our middleware competitors include IBM,
    Microsoft, SAP AG, Sun, Progress Software, Fujitsu Software
    Corporation, Hitachi Software Engineering Co., Ltd., open source
    vendors such as Red Hat, Inc. (JBoss), Apache Geronimo, Liferay,
    Inc., SpringSource, Inc., MuleSource, Inc. and JasperSoft
    Corporation, as well as several other competitors in each
    element of our packaged functions such as TIBCO Software, Inc.,
    Software AG, SOA Software, Inc., Savvion, Inc., MicroStrategy,
    Inc., CA, Inc. (CA), Siemens AG, Courion Corporation, EMC
    Corporation (RSA), Informatica Corporation, Novell, Inc.
    (Novell), Lombardi Software, Inc. and Pegasystems, Inc., among
    others.


 


    Competition in the sale of applications software, in particular,
    is multifaceted and subject to rapid change. We currently offer
    several application product lines that are designed to address
    functions applicable to customers across many industries (e.g.,
    enterprise resource planning (ERP) or customer relationship
    management (CRM)), as well as applications specific to
    operations in particular industry verticals, such as retail,
    financial services, communications, tax and utilities, health
    sciences, public sector and others. One of the main competitive
    differentiators in applications software is our ability to
    combine “best-of-breed” software, suite software and
    our application integration architecture, without adding
    complexity for the end user.


 


    Our applications offerings (including our On Demand/Hosted and
    SaaS offerings) typically compete with commercial software
    vendors’ pre-packaged applications, applications offered as
    On Demand, SaaS, or hosted offerings, open source applications,
    applications developed in-house by customers, applications that
    were custom developed by other software vendors or systems
    integrators, applications consisting of a variety of discrete
    pieces of functionality from multiple providers that have been
    customized and implemented by systems integrators or consultants
    (such as IBM Global Services and Accenture Ltd.) and business
    process outsourcers (such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
    (ADP), Fidelity Investments, Ceridian Corporation, Hewitt
    Associates, Inc., Accero Software (formerly Cyborg Systems
    Limited) and others). The variety of competing offerings is even
    more pronounced in industry verticals where complete industry
    solutions either do not exist or are addressed by combining
    offerings of multiple software offerings. As a result, our
    applications compete against offerings from the vendors listed
    above as well as SAP AG, IBM (through Maximo, MRO Software,
    Ascential Software, Cognos), Microsoft (through Dynamics GP,
    Dynamics NAV, Dynamics AX, Dynamics CRM, Dynamics Snap, Dynamics
    SL), Lawson Software, Inc., Infor Global Solutions (with
    numerous independent product lines coming from acquisitions
    including Agilisys, Baan, infor GmbH, SSA Global Technologies,
    Extensity and Datastream), Ariba, Inc., IFS AB, JDA Software
    Group, Inc., I2 Technologies, Inc., Manhattan Associates, Inc.
    The Sage Group plc, salesforce.com, Inc., Taleo Corporation,
    SuccessFactors, Inc., as well as many other application
    providers and point solution providers.


 


    In the sale of content management and collaboration products, we
    compete with Microsoft, IBM (through Domino/Notes/FileNet), EMC
    Corporation (Documentum), Open Text Corporation, Autonomy
    Corporation plc (Interwoven), HP (through Tower Software), SAP
    AG and Vignette Corporation, as well as open source vendors such
    as Alfresco Software, Inc., among others.


 


    In the sale of development tools, ease of use,
    standards-compliance and the level of abstraction (automated
    code generation) are key competitive differentiators. In this
    area, we compete against IBM (through WebSphere Studio),
    Microsoft (through VisualStudio.NET), Sun (through Sun Studio),
    Sybase (through PowerBuilder) and others,



    
    11



Table of Contents




    including Eclipse Foundation, Inc. (Eclipse), an open source
    vendor. The success of our development tools is closely related
    to the relative popularity of our other offerings (database and
    middleware and applications) compared to our competitors as well
    as the larger platform competition between Sun’s Java and
    Microsoft’s .NET.


 


    In the sale of enterprise management software, we compete with
    BMC Software, Inc., Quest Software, Inc., IBM Tivoli, HP,
    CA, Compuware Corporation, Embarcadero Technologies, Inc., and
    open source vendors such as Hyperic, Inc.


 


    In the sale of operating systems, we introduced a support and
    service offering for Red Hat’s open source Linux operating
    system in fiscal 2007. This placed us in competition with others
    who offer support for the Linux operating system, including Red
    Hat, Novell, Inc. and Canonical Ltd. (through Ubuntu); as well
    as with the Unix operating systems of IBM, Sun, HP and others
    and the Windows Server operating systems of Microsoft.


 


    In the sale of virtualization products, our offerings compete
    with those of VMware, Inc., IBM, Microsoft, Sun and Citrix
    Systems, Inc., among others, including other vendors of open
    source virtualization products.


 


    In the sale of consulting and systems integration services, we
    both partner with and compete against Accenture Ltd., HP, IBM
    Global Services, Bearing Point, Inc., Capgemini Group, and many
    others (both large and small).


 


    In the sale of many of our products, we also compete with
    products and features developed internally by customers and
    their IT staff.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We develop the substantial majority of our products internally.
    In addition, we have acquired technology through business
    acquisitions. We also purchase or license intellectual property
    rights in certain circumstances. Internal development allows us
    to maintain technical control over the design and development of
    our products. We have a number of United States and foreign
    patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects
    of our products and technology. While we believe that our
    patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to
    any of our principal business segments.


 


    Research and development expenditures were $2.8 billion,
    $2.7 billion and $2.2 billion, in fiscal 2009, 2008
    and 2007, respectively, or 12% of total revenues in each of the
    aforementioned fiscal years. As a percentage of new software
    license revenues, research and development expenditures were
    39%, 36% and 37% in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Rapid technological advances in hardware and software
    development, evolving standards in computer hardware and
    software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new
    product introductions and enhancements characterize the software
    markets in which we compete. We plan on continuing to dedicate a
    significant amount of resources to research and development
    efforts to maintain and improve our current product offerings
    including our database, middleware and applications software
    products.


 



    Employees


 


    As of May 31, 2009, we employed approximately
    86,000 full-time employees, including 20,000 in sales and
    marketing, 8,000 in software license updates and product
    support, 28,000 in services, 22,000 in research and development
    and 8,000 in general and administrative positions. Of these
    employees, approximately 28,000 were located in the United
    States and 58,000 were employed internationally. None of our
    employees in the United States is represented by a labor union;
    however, in certain international subsidiaries workers’
    councils represent our employees.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a)
    and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    are available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations web
    site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
    furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
    The information posted on our web site is not incorporated into
    this Annual Report.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Our executive officers are listed below.


 




     	
     	
     	




    Name


 


    Office(s)



 





    Lawrence J. Ellison



 


    Chief Executive Officer and Director





    Jeffrey O. Henley



 


    Chairman of the Board of Directors





    Safra A. Catz



 


    President and Director





    Charles E. Phillips, Jr. 



 


    President and Director





    Keith G. Block



 


    Executive Vice President, North America Sales and Consulting





    Jeff Epstein



 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





    Loic Le Guisquet



 


    Executive Vice President, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)
    Sales and Consulting





    Luiz Meisler



 


    Executive Vice President, Latin America Sales and Consulting





    Juergen Rottler



 


    Executive Vice President, Oracle Customer Services





    Charles A. Rozwat



 


    Executive Vice President, Product Development





    Derek H. Williams



 


    Executive Vice President, Japan Sales and Consulting





    Dorian E. Daley



 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary





    William Corey West



 


    Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting
    Officer








 


    Mr. Ellison, 64, has been Chief Executive Officer and a
    Director since he founded Oracle in June 1977. He served as
    Chairman of the Board from May 1995 to January 2004.


 


    Mr. Henley, 64, has served as the Chairman of the Board
    since January 2004 and as a Director since June 1995. He served
    as an Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from
    March 1991 to July 2004. He also serves as a director of
    Callwave, Inc.


 


    Ms. Catz, 47, has been a President since January 2004 and
    has served as a Director since October 2001. She was Chief
    Financial Officer from November 2005 until September 2008 and
    Interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2005 until July
    2005. She served as an Executive Vice President from November
    1999 to January 2004 and Senior Vice President from April 1999
    to October 1999. She also serves as a director of HSBC Holdings
    plc.


 


    Mr. Phillips, 50, has been a President and has served as a
    Director since January 2004. He served as Executive Vice
    President, Strategy, Partnerships, and Business Development,
    from May 2003 to January 2004. He also serves as a director of
    Morgan Stanley and Viacom, Inc.


 


    Mr. Block, 48, has been Executive Vice President, North
    America Sales and Consulting since September 2002 and Executive
    Vice President, North America Consulting since February 2002. He
    served as Senior Vice President of North America Commercial
    Consulting and Global Service Lines from June 1999 until January
    2002. He served as Senior Vice President of the Commercial
    Consulting Practice from April 1999 until May 1999.
    Mr. Block was Group Vice President, East Consulting from
    June 1997 until March 1999.


 


    Mr. Epstein, 52, has been Executive Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer since September 2008. Prior to joining
    us, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer of Oberon Media, Inc., a privately held internet game
    technology provider and publisher from April 2007 to June 2008.
    From June 2005 until its sale in March 2007, Mr. Epstein
    was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
    ADVO, Inc., a direct mail media company. Mr. Epstein was a
    member of the Board of Directors of Revonet, Inc., a
    business-to-business marketing and database company, from
    January 2004 to December 2005, Chairman of the Board from
    December 2004 to December 2005 and the Acting President and
    Chief Executive Officer from June 2004 through December 2004.
    Mr. Epstein also serves as a director of priceline.com
    Incorporated.


 


    Mr. Le Guisquet, 47, has been Executive Vice President,
    Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) Sales and Consulting since
    December 2008. He served as Senior Vice President, Western
    Central Europe Applications from June 2006 until November 2008.
    He served as Senior Vice President, Oracle Customer Relationship
    Management EMEA from January 2006 until June 2006. He served as
    Senior Vice President, EMEA Consulting from August 2003 until
    January 2006. He also held various other EMEA regional executive
    positions with us since January 1990.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    Mr. Meisler, 56, has been Executive Vice President, Latin
    America Sales and Consulting since July 2008. He served as
    Senior Vice President, Latin America Sales and Consulting from
    December 2001 to July 2008; as Vice President, Latin America
    Sales and Consulting from June 2001 to December 2001; and as
    Managing Director of Oracle Brazil from January 2000 to May
    2001. He served as Vice President, Latin America Consulting from
    June 1999 to January 2000 and as Vice President, Oracle Brazil
    Consulting from March 1998 to May 1999.


 


    Mr. Rottler, 42, has been Executive Vice President, Oracle
    Customer Services since September 2006. He was Executive Vice
    President, Oracle Support and Oracle On Demand, from January
    2005 to September 2006 and was Executive Vice President, Oracle
    On Demand, from September 2004 to January 2005. Prior to joining
    us, he served as Senior Vice President, Public Sector, Customer
    Solutions Group at Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), from December
    2003 to September 2004, where he was responsible for HP’s
    worldwide Public Sector, Health and Education business. He also
    held various other global and regional executive positions in
    HP’s Services and Software business units since 1997.


 


    Mr. Rozwat, 61, has been Executive Vice President, Product
    Development, since October 2007. He served as Executive Vice
    President, Server Technologies from November 1999 to October
    2007 and served as Senior Vice President, Database Server from
    December 1996 to October 1999. He served as Vice President of
    Development from December 1994 to November 1996.


 


    Mr. Williams, 64, has been Executive Vice President, Japan
    Sales and Consulting since June 2008 and was Executive Vice
    President, Asia Pacific Sales and Consulting from October 2000
    to May 2008. He served as Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific
    from July 1993 to October 2000 and as Vice President, Asia
    Pacific from April 1991 to July 1993. He joined Oracle United
    Kingdom in October 1988 and served as Regional Director,
    Strategic Accounts from October 1988 to April 1991.


 


    Ms. Daley, 50, has been Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary since October 2007. She served as Vice
    President, Legal, Associate General Counsel and Assistant
    Secretary from June 2004 to October 2007, as Associate General
    Counsel and Assistant Secretary from October 2001 to June 2004,
    and as Associate General Counsel from February 2001 to October
    2001. She joined Oracle’s Legal Department in 1992.


 


    Mr. West, 47, has been Senior Vice President, Corporate
    Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2008
    and was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief
    Accounting Officer from April 2007 to February 2008. Prior to
    joining us, he served as Intuit Inc.’s Director of
    Accounting from August 2005 to March 2007, as The Gap,
    Inc.’s Assistant Controller from April 2005 to August 2005,
    and as Vice President, Finance, at Cadence Design Systems,
    Inc.’s product business from June 2001 to April 2005. He
    also spent 14 years with Arthur Andersen LLP, most recently
    as a partner.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological
    environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are
    driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The
    following discussion, as well as our “Critical Accounting
    Policies and Estimates” discussion in Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations (Item 7), highlights some of these risks.


 


    The effects of the current recession and the recent global
    economic crisis may impact our business, results of operations,
    financial condition or stock price.  The
    current recession and recent global economic crisis have caused
    a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of
    liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and
    extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets.
    These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our
    business, operating results or financial condition in a number
    of ways which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price.


 


    For example, current or potential customers may reduce their IT
    spending or be unable to fund software or services purchases,
    which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of
    our products and services or not to pay us or to delay paying us
    for previously purchased products and services.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    In some financial markets, institutions may decrease or
    discontinue their purchase of the long-term customer financing
    contracts that we have traditionally sold on a non-recourse
    basis. As a result, we may hold more of these contracts
    ourselves or require more customers to purchase our products and
    services on a cash basis.


 


    In addition, financial institution weakness or failures may
    cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult
    either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain
    financing for our operations, investing activities or financing
    activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions
    and the timing and amount of any future dividend declarations or
    repurchases of our common stock or our debt).


 


    Finally, our investment portfolio, which includes short-term
    debt securities, is generally subject to general credit,
    liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may
    be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. If the
    banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets
    continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment
    portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our
    investments could be adversely affected.


 


    Economic, political and market conditions can adversely
    affect our business, results of operations and financial
    condition, including our revenue growth and
    profitability.  Our business is influenced by
    a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have
    no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general economic and business conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the overall demand for enterprise software and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government
    spending priorities; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general political developments.





 


    A general weakening of, or declining corporate confidence in,
    the global economy, or a curtailment in government or corporate
    spending could delay or decrease customer purchases. In
    addition, terrorist attacks around the world, the wars in
    Afghanistan and Iraq and the potential for other hostilities in
    various parts of the world, potential public health crises and
    natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of
    economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect
    our results of operations and financial condition, including our
    revenue growth and profitability. These factors generally have
    the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses and
    related services and, to a lesser extent, also affect our
    renewal rates for software license updates and product support.


 


    We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to
    inaccurate sales forecasts or other
    factors.  Our revenues, and particularly our
    new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and,
    as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate
    substantially. We use a “pipeline” system, a common
    industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business.
    Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and
    estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the
    dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated
    periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline
    estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular
    quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the
    “conversion rate” or “closure rate” of the
    pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. A
    contraction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself,
    could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely
    affect our business or results of operations. In particular, a
    slowdown in IT spending or economic conditions generally can
    unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as
    purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or
    cancelled. The conversion rate can also be affected by the
    tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a
    fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms,
    which can also impede our ability to negotiate and execute these
    contracts in a timely manner. In addition, for newly acquired
    companies, we have limited ability to predict how their
    pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for one or two
    quarters following the acquisition, and their conversion rate
    post-acquisition may be quite different from their historical
    conversion rate.


 


    A substantial portion of our new software license revenue
    contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a
    significant percentage of these are large orders. Because our
    cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue
    shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on
    our profitability. The number of large new software license
    transactions also increases the risk of fluctuation in our
    quarterly results because a delay in even a small



    
    15



Table of Contents




    number of these transactions could cause our quarterly new
    software license revenues to fall significantly short of our
    predictions.


 


    Our success depends upon our ability to develop new
    products and services, integrate acquired products and services
    and enhance our existing products and
    services.  Rapid technological advances and
    evolving standards in computer hardware, software development
    and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly
    sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product
    introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise
    software market in which we compete. If we are unable to develop
    new products and services, or to enhance and improve our
    products and support services in a timely manner or to position
    and/or price
    our products and services to meet market demand, customers may
    not buy new software licenses or purchase or renew software
    license updates and product support contracts. Renewals of these
    support contracts are an important factor in the growing
    software license update and product support segment of our
    business. In addition, IT standards from both consortia and
    formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace
    standards are rapidly evolving. We cannot provide any assurance
    that the standards on which we choose to develop new products
    will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities
    in emerging areas.


 


    We are currently building Oracle Fusion Applications, which are
    being designed to unify best-of-business capabilities from all
    Oracle applications in a complete suite. We have also announced
    that we intend to extend the life of many of our acquired
    products and will continue to provide long-term support for many
    of our acquired products, both of which require us to dedicate
    resources. If we do not develop and release these new or
    enhanced products and services within the anticipated time
    frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of a new,
    enhanced or acquired product line or service, if we do not
    timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if
    we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired
    product lines or services, our business may be adversely
    affected.


 


    Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize
    the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the
    time of a transaction.  In recent years, we
    have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of
    companies, products, services and technologies. An active
    acquisition program is an important element of our overall
    corporate strategy, and we expect to continue to make similar
    acquisitions in the future, including our currently pending
    acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Risks we may face in
    connection with our acquisition program include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s
    attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or
    integration activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we
    expected, we may pay more than the acquired company or assets
    are ultimately worth or we may not integrate an acquired company
    or technology as successfully as we expected, which could
    adversely affect our business or operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may have difficulties (i) managing an acquired
    company’s technologies or lines of business or
    (ii) entering new markets, in each case where we have no or
    limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have
    stronger market positions;




 



     
        • 

    
    our operating results or financial condition may be adversely
    impacted by liabilities that we assume from an acquired company
    or technology or by other circumstances related to an
    acquisition, including claims related to an acquired business or
    technology from government agencies, terminated employees,
    customers, former stockholders or other third parties;
    pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company
    that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination
    or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our
    business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting
    treatment as a result of an acquired company’s practices;
    and intellectual property disputes;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain
    liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to
    acquiring a company or technology, which could result in
    unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable
    accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss
    of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our
    business, operating results or financial condition;






    
    16



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from
    an acquisition if a larger than predicted number of customers
    decline to renew software license updates and product support
    contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our
    customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do
    not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may
    otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or
    other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar
    bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an
    acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans
    in certain jurisdictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or
    products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform
    standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may have multiple and overlapping product lines as a result
    of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported
    differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support
    and development of acquired products;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental
    authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely
    basis, if it all, which could, among other things, delay or
    prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our
    ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of
    an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current
    business and operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other
    potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases,
    dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and
    debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for
    an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a
    substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary
    funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on
    favorable terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may experience additional
    and/or
    unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our
    acquisitions pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles (GAAP), including our adoption of FASB Statement
    No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations, in
    fiscal 2010, which could materially affect our consolidated
    financial statements; and




 



     
        • 

    
    to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity
    securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing
    stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease.





 


    The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger
    acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions.


 


    Our international sales and operations subject us to
    additional risks that can adversely affect our operating
    results.  We derive a substantial portion of
    our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of
    the United States. Our international operations include software
    development, sales, customer support, consulting, On Demand and
    shared administrative service centers.


 


    Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations
    that apply to our international operations increases our cost of
    doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and
    regulations include U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt
    payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements,
    labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations,
    import and trade restrictions, and export requirements.
    Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines,
    criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees,
    and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such
    violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer
    our products and services in one or more countries, could delay
    or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially
    damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion
    efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our
    business and our operating results. Our success depends, in
    part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these
    difficulties. We monitor our international operations and
    investigate allegations of improprieties relating to
    transactions and the way in which such transactions are



    
    17



Table of Contents




    recorded. Where circumstances warrant, we provide information
    and report our findings to government authorities, but no
    assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such
    authorities.


 


    We are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges
    in managing an organization operating in various countries,
    including those related to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general economic conditions in each country or region;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory changes;




 



     
        • 

    
    political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other
    hostilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have
    significant operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts
    receivable;




 



     
        • 

    
    overlapping tax regimes;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries
    to the United States at favorable tax rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in transferring funds from certain
    countries; and




 



     
        • 

    
    reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some
    countries.





 


    As the majority shareholder of Oracle Financial Services
    Software Limited (formerly i-flex solutions limited), a publicly
    traded Indian software company focused on the banking industry,
    we are faced with several additional risks, including being
    subject to local securities regulations and being unable to
    exert full control or obtain financial and other information on
    a timely basis.


 


    We may experience foreign currency gains and
    losses.  We conduct a significant number of
    transactions in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
    Changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly
    the Euro, Japanese Yen and British Pound relative to the
    U.S. Dollar can significantly affect revenues and our
    operating results. Our revenues and operating results are
    adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other
    currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens.
    Our revenues and operating results in fiscal 2009 have been
    unfavorably affected by the recent strengthening
    U.S. Dollar relative to other major foreign currencies.


 


    Our foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily
    related to sublicense fees and other agreements among us and our
    subsidiaries and distributors, are charged against earnings in
    the period incurred. We enter into foreign exchange forward
    contracts to hedge certain transaction and translation exposures
    in major currencies, but we will continue to experience foreign
    currency gains and losses in certain instances where it is not
    possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency
    exposures.


 


    We may not be able to protect our intellectual property
    rights.  We rely on copyright, trademark,
    patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures,
    controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual
    property rights. Despite our efforts, these protections may be
    limited. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse
    engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use
    our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be
    invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or
    future patent applications, whether or not being currently
    challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we
    seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not
    provide the same level of protection of our intellectual
    property rights as do the laws and courts of the United States.
    If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against
    unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may
    not remain competitive.


 


    Third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim
    infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights
    and/or
    breach of license agreement provisions.  We
    periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed
    against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of
    their intellectual property rights
    and/or
    breach of our agreements with them. We expect the number of such
    claims will increase as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we continue to acquire companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    the number of products and competitors in our industry segments
    grows;






    
    18



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the functionality of products overlap;




 



     
        • 

    
    the use and support of third-party code (including open source
    code) becomes more prevalent in the software industry; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the volume of issued software patents continues to increase.





 


    Responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    be time consuming, costly and result in litigation;




 



     
        • 

    
    divert management’s time and attention from developing our
    business;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and
    licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to release source code to third parties, possibly
    under open source license terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our
    customers; or




 



     
        • 

    
    otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations,
    financial condition or cash flows.





 


    Specific patent infringement cases are discussed under
    Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough
    qualified employees.  We rely on the continued
    service of our senior management, including our Chief Executive
    Officer and founder, members of our executive team and other key
    employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In the
    software industry, there is substantial and continuous
    competition for highly skilled business, product development,
    technical and other personnel. In addition, acquisitions could
    cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at
    Oracle. We may also experience increased compensation costs that
    are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices.
    We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in
    retaining and motivating existing personnel. With rare
    exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or
    non-competition agreements with our employees. Members of our
    senior management team have left Oracle over the years for a
    variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not
    be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our
    operations.


 


    We continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring
    personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is
    available at lower costs. When we make adjustments to our
    workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce
    reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce
    structure. We may also experience increased competition for
    employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization
    continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts
    and/or
    increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive
    compensation program. Part of our total compensation program
    includes stock options which are an important tool in attracting
    and retaining employees in our industry. If our stock price
    performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain
    or attract employees. In addition, because we expense all
    stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our
    stock-based and other compensation practices. Some of the
    changes we consider from time to time include a reduction in the
    number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number
    of options granted per employee and a change to alternative
    forms of stock-based compensation. Any changes in our
    compensation practices or changes made by competitors could
    affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and
    recruit new personnel.


 


    We may need to change our pricing models to compete
    successfully.  The intense competition we face
    in the sales of our products and services and general economic
    and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our
    prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain
    products or services or develop products that the marketplace
    considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer
    other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such
    changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating
    results. Our software license updates and product support fees
    are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software
    license fees. Our competitors may offer lower percentage pricing
    on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us
    to further discount our new license prices.



    
    19



Table of Contents




    Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could
    cause new software license and services revenues to decline or
    be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers
    adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may
    bundle software products for promotional purposes or as a
    long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and
    product implementations. These practices could, over time,
    significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for
    certain of our products. If we do not adapt our pricing models
    to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in
    customer demand, our new software license revenues could
    decrease. Additionally, increased distribution of applications
    through application service providers, including
    software-as-a-service (SaaS) providers, may reduce the average
    price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our
    products, reducing new software license revenues unless we can
    offset price reductions with volume increases. The increase in
    open source software distribution may also cause us to change
    our pricing models.


 


    We may be unable to compete effectively within the highly
    competitive software industry.  Many vendors
    develop and market databases, internet application server
    products, application development tools, business applications,
    collaboration products and business intelligence products that
    compete with our offerings. In addition, several companies offer
    business process outsourcing (BPO) and SaaS as competitive
    alternatives to buying software, and customer interest in BPO
    and SaaS solutions is increasing. Some of these competitors have
    greater financial or technical resources than we do. Our
    competitors that offer business applications and middleware
    products may influence a customer’s purchasing decision for
    the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential
    customers not to acquire our products. We could lose customers
    if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new
    functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or
    form strategic alliances with other companies. Vendors that
    offer BPO or SaaS solutions may persuade our customers not to
    purchase our products. We may also face increasing competition
    from open source software initiatives, in which competitors may
    provide software and intellectual property for free. Existing or
    new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at
    our expense.


 


    Disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our
    future operating results.  Our indirect
    channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system
    integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers,
    internet service providers, network integrators and independent
    software vendors. Our relationships with these channel
    participants are important elements of our marketing and sales
    efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if
    our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our
    relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if
    any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with
    or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial
    condition of our channel participants were to weaken. There can
    be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining,
    expanding or developing our relationships with channel
    participants. If we are not successful, we may lose sales
    opportunities, customers and revenues.


 


    Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may
    adversely affect our operating results.  In
    fiscal 2010, we will adopt FASB Statement No. 141 (revised
    2007), Business Combinations and FASB Staff Position
    (FSP) FAS 141(R)-1 Accounting for Assets Acquired and
    Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combinations That Arise from
    Contingencies. Accounting for our acquisitions pursuant to
    Statement 141(R) is significantly different than how we have
    historically accounted for our acquisitions under existing
    accounting principles and these differences could materially
    impact our results of operations or financial position. The more
    significant differences include how we account for restructuring
    liabilities associated with an acquisition, costs incurred to
    effect the acquisition, changes in estimates of income tax
    valuation allowances and liabilities for uncertain tax positions
    associated with an acquisition, and how we reflect goodwill
    adjustments in comparative financial statements, among others. A
    more thorough discussion of our accounting for these and other
    items is presented in the “Critical Accounting Policies and
    Estimates” section of Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Item 7).


 


    For any business combination that is consummated pursuant to
    Statement 141(R), we will recognize the identifiable assets
    acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling
    interest in acquired companies generally at their acquisition
    date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill.
    Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess
    amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally
    measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date
    amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities
    assumed. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions
    believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain.
    After we



    
    20



Table of Contents




    complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in
    material charges and adversely affect our operating results and
    may adversely affect our cash flows:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we
    acquire, such as employee retention, redeployment or relocation
    expenses;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairment of goodwill or intangible assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    amortization of intangible assets acquired;




 



     
        • 

    
    a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired;




 



     
        • 

    
    identification of assumed contingent liabilities after the
    measurement period (generally up to one year from the
    acquisition date) has ended;




 



     
        • 

    
    charges to our operating results to eliminate certain
    duplicative pre-merger activities, to restructure our operations
    or to reduce our cost structure;




 



     
        • 

    
    charges to our operating results due to changes in deferred tax
    asset valuation allowances and liabilities related to uncertain
    tax positions after the measurement period has ended;




 



     
        • 

    
    charges to our operating results resulting from expenses
    incurred to effect the acquisition; and




 



     
        • 

    
    charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain
    stock awards assumed in an acquisition.





 


    Substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as
    expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per
    share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. Charges
    to our operating results in any given period could differ
    substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of
    our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities.


 


    Our periodic workforce restructurings can be
    disruptive.  We have in the past restructured
    or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct
    sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management
    changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and
    other internal and external considerations. In the past, sales
    force and other restructurings have generally resulted in a
    temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. These effects
    could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other
    restructurings and our revenues could be negatively affected.


 


    We might experience significant errors or security flaws
    in our products and services.  Despite testing
    prior to their release, software products frequently contain
    errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or
    when new versions are released. The detection and correction of
    any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in
    our software products could affect the ability of our products
    to work with other hardware or software products, could delay
    the development or release of new products or new versions of
    products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our
    products. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new
    products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. In
    addition, we run our own business operations, Oracle On Demand
    and other outsourcing services, support and consulting services,
    on our products and networks and any security flaws, if
    exploited, could affect our ability to conduct internal business
    operations. End users, who rely on our products and services for
    applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a
    greater sensitivity to product errors and security
    vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally.
    Software product errors and security flaws in our products or
    services could expose us to product liability, performance
    and/or
    warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could
    impact our future sales of products and services. In addition,
    we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches
    of our services, which could adversely impact future business
    prospects for those services.


 


    We may not receive significant revenues from our current
    research and development efforts for several years, if at
    all.  Developing and localizing software is
    expensive and the investment in product development often
    involves a long return on investment cycle. We have made and
    expect to continue to make significant investments in software
    research and development and related product opportunities.
    Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles
    require high levels of expenditures for research and development
    that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset
    by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to
    dedicate a significant



    
    21



Table of Contents




    amount of resources to our research and development efforts to
    maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to
    receive significant revenues from these investments for several
    years, if at all.


 


    Our sales to government clients subject us to risks
    including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions
    and penalties.  We derive revenues from
    contracts with the United States government, state and local
    governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate
    most of these contracts at any time, without cause.


 


    There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies,
    both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Our
    federal government contracts are subject to the approval of
    appropriations being made by the United States Congress to
    fund the expenditures under these contracts. Similarly, our
    contracts at the state and local levels are subject to
    government funding authorizations.


 


    Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to
    audits and investigations which could result in various civil
    and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including
    termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received,
    forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and
    suspensions or debarment from future government business.


 


    Business disruptions could affect our operating
    results.  A significant portion of our
    research and development activities and certain other critical
    business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas.
    We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure
    of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and
    providing services, including some of our On Demand offerings. A
    major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results
    in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business
    or information technology systems could severely affect our
    ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result,
    our future operating results could be materially and adversely
    affected.


 


    There are risks associated with our outstanding
    indebtedness.  As of May 31, 2009, we had
    an aggregate of $10.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness
    that will mature between 2010 and 2038, and we may incur
    additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay
    interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is
    dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations,
    generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the
    other factors discussed in this section. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks
    successfully.


 


    We may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt
    as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to
    refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may
    not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt.
    Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at
    the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon
    refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that
    refinanced indebtedness would increase. Should we incur future
    increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of
    our foreign tax credits to reduce our U.S. federal income
    tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our
    provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. In addition,
    changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating
    could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity
    securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on
    outstanding or future debt. These risks could adversely affect
    our financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Adverse litigation results could affect our
    business.  We are subject to various legal
    proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive
    to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with
    certainty. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages
    or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating
    results or financial condition. Additional information regarding
    certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under
    Note 17 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    We may have exposure to additional tax
    liabilities.  As a multinational corporation,
    we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based
    taxes, in both the United States and various foreign
    jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining
    our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax
    liabilities.


 


    Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly
    adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals
    for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as the
    recent proposal by President Obama’s Administration, if
    enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our
    effective tax rate.


 


    In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many
    intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate
    tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by
    tax authorities. Our intercompany transfer



    
    22



Table of Contents




    pricing is currently being reviewed by the IRS and by foreign
    tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional
    audits in the future. We previously negotiated three unilateral
    Advance Pricing Agreements with the IRS that cover many of our
    intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the IRS from
    making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these
    agreements. These agreements are effective for fiscal years
    through May 31, 2006. We have submitted to the IRS a
    request for renewal of this Advance Pricing Agreement for the
    years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31, 2011.
    However, these agreements do not cover all elements of our
    transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities outside the
    United States. We have finalized one bilateral Advance Pricing
    Agreement, which was effective for the years ending May 31,
    2002 through May 31, 2006 and we have submitted a renewal
    for the years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31,
    2011. There can be no guarantee that such negotiations will
    result in an agreement. During the fiscal year ended
    May 31, 2009, we concluded an additional bilateral
    agreement to cover the period from June 1, 2001 through
    January 25, 2008.


 


    Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there
    is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or
    tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our
    historical income tax provisions and accruals.


 


    We are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll,
    sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and
    services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign
    jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities
    with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have
    exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. Our
    acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax
    exposures.


 


    Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand may not be
    successful.  We offer Oracle On Demand
    outsourcing services for our applications and database
    technology, delivered at our data center facilities, select
    partner data centers or customer facilities. We also offer CRM
    On Demand, which is a service offering that provides our
    customers with our CRM software functionality delivered via a
    hosted solution that we manage. These business models continue
    to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively,
    generate significant revenues, develop them into profitable
    businesses or maintain their profitability. We incur expenses
    associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our Oracle
    On Demand and CRM On Demand businesses in advance of our ability
    to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. These
    businesses are subject to a variety of additional risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we manage critical customer applications, data and other
    confidential information through Oracle On Demand and CRM On
    Demand; accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant
    damage claims and risk to Oracle’s brand and future
    business prospects in the event of system failures, inadequate
    disaster recovery or loss or misappropriation of customer
    confidential information;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data
    privacy, data security and export compliance;




 



     
        • 

    
    the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers
    are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security
    and use of global resources; changes in these laws could affect
    our ability to provide services from or to some locations and
    could increase both the costs and risks associated with
    providing the services;




 



     
        • 

    
    demand for these services may not meet our expectations and may
    be affected by customer and media concerns about security risks,
    international transfers of data, government or other third-party
    access to data,
    and/or use
    of outsourced services providers more generally; and




 



     
        • 

    
    our offerings may require large fixed costs for data centers,
    computers, network infrastructure, security and otherwise, and
    we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset
    these costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these
    offerings.





 


    Our stock price could become more volatile and your
    investment could lose value.  All of the
    factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price.
    The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new
    products, product enhancements or technological advances by our
    competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions,
    major transactions, or management changes could also affect our
    stock price. Changes in the amounts and frequency of share
    repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price.
    Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the
    analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings
    estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or
    analysts’ valuation measures for our stock, our credit
    ratings and market trends



    
    23



Table of Contents




    unrelated to our performance. A significant drop in our stock
    price could also expose us to the risk of securities class
    actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and
    divert management’s attention and resources, which could
    adversely affect our business.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B