Item 1A. 
        
            Risk Factors    

 

Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.  Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, there also may be risks of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based on the information available to us that later may prove to be material.  You should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.  Actual results, therefore, may materially differ from anticipated results described in these forward-looking statements. 

 

The automotive aftermarket business is highly competitive, and we may have to risk our capital to remain competitive. 

 

Both the DIY and professional installer portions of our business are highly competitive, particularly in the more densely populated areas that we serve. Some of our competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources. In addition, some of our competitors are smaller than we are overall but have a greater presence than we do in a particular market.  We may have to expend more resources and risk additional capital to remain competitive.  For a list of our principal competitors, see the ''Competition'' section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 

 

We cannot assure future growth will be achieved. 

 

We believe that our ability to open additional stores at an accelerated rate will be a significant factor in achieving our growth objectives for the future.  Our ability to accomplish our growth objectives is dependent, in part, on matters beyond our control, such as weather conditions, zoning and other issues related to new store site development, the availability of qualified management personnel and general business and economic conditions. We cannot be sure that our growth plans for 2007 and beyond will be achieved.  Failure to achieve our growth objectives may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.  For a discussion of our growth strategies, see the ''Growth and Expansion Strategies'' section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 

 

Risks associated with acquisitions may not lead to expected growth and could result in increased costs and inefficiencies. 

 

We expect to continue to make acquisitions as an element of our growth strategy. Acquisitions involve certain risks that could cause our actual growth to differ from our expectations. For example:

 



    
        
            • 
        
            we may not be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to acquire additional companies at favorable prices or on other favorable terms;  
    
        
            • 
        
            our management’s attention may be distracted; 
        
              
    
        
            • 
        
            we may fail to retain key acquired personnel; 
        
              
    
        
            • 
        
            we may assume unanticipated legal liabilities and other problems; 
        
              
    
        
            • 
        
            we may not be able to successfully integrate the operations (accounting and billing functions, for example) of businesses we acquire to realize economic, operational and other benefits; and  
    
        
            • 
        
            we may fail or be unable to discover liabilities of businesses that we acquire for which we, as a successor owner or operator, may be liable.  
    
        

        

        

        

        

          

 

We are sensitive to regional economic and weather conditions that could reduce our sales.

 

All of our stores are located in the Central, Midwest and Southern United States. In particular, approximately 26% of our stores are located in Texas.  Therefore, our business is sensitive to the economic and weather conditions of these regions.  Unusually inclement weather, such as significant rain, snow, sleet or freezing rain, has historically discouraged our customers from visiting our stores and reduced our sales, particularly to DIY customers.

 

We depend on certain key personnel to successfully manage and grow our business. 

 

Our success has been largely dependent on the efforts of certain key personnel, including David O'Reilly, Ted Wise and Greg Henslee. Our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals. Additionally, the successful implementation and management of our growth and expansion strategies will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to attract such qualified personnel, which could cause us to be less efficient reducing our sales and profitability.  For a further discussion of our 

 

13

 




 

management and personnel, see the ''Business'' section of Item 1 and Item 4a of this Form 10-K and our Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, a portion of which is incorporated herein.

 

The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. 

 

The stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based on general economic and market conditions. The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. Failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 

 

In addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline.  In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such a company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 

 

Sales of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale could adversely affect our share price. 

 

All of the shares of common stock currently held by our affiliates may be sold in reliance upon the exemptive provisions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, subject to certain volume and other conditions imposed by such rule. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of such shares for sale will have on the market price of the common stock prevailing from time to time. We believe sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. 

 



    
        
            Item 1B