Item 1A
              Risk Factors
            
      
    
    Volatile
global and local commodity pricing strongly affects Occidental’s results of
operations.
    Occidental’s
financial results typically correlate closely to the prices it obtains for its
products.
    Changes in
consumption patterns, global and local economic conditions, inventory levels,
production disruptions, the actions of OPEC, currency exchange rates, market
speculation, worldwide drilling and exploration activities, weather, geophysical
and technical limitations and other matters may affect the supply and demand
dynamics of oil and gas, contributing to price volatility.
    Demand
and, consequently, the price obtained for Occidental’s chemical products
correlate strongly to the health of the United States and global economy, as
well as chemical industry expansion and contraction
cycles.  Occidental also depends on feedstocks and energy to produce
chemicals, which are commodities subject to significant price
fluctuations.
     
    Occidental’s
oil and gas business operates in highly competitive environments, which affect,
among other things, its results of operations and its ability to grow production
and replace reserves.
    Growth in
Occidental’s oil and gas production and results of operations depends, in part,
on its ability to profitably acquire, develop or find additional
reserves.  Occidental replaces significant amounts of its reserves
through acquisitions, exploration and large development
projects.  Occidental has many competitors (including national oil
companies), some of which are larger and better funded, may be willing to accept
greater risks or have special competencies.  Competition for reserves
may make it more difficult to find attractive investment opportunities or
require delay of expected reserve replacement efforts.  Cash
conservation considerations during periods of low product prices may delay
production growth and reserve replacement efforts.
     
    Governmental
actions, political instability and labor unrest may affect Occidental’s results
of operations.
    Occidental’s
businesses are subject to the decisions of many governments and political
interests.  As a result, Occidental faces risks of:
     
    
      

             
      
            
              Ø
            
            
              
                new
      or amended laws and regulations, including those related to taxes, royalty
      rates, profit repatriation, permitted production rates, import, export and
      use of equipment, safety, security and environmental protection, all of
      which may increase costs or reduce the demand for Occidental's
      products;
              
            
          
               
             
             
          
             
      
            
              Ø
            
            
              
                reduction
      of entitlements to produce oil and gas; and
              
            
          
               
             
             
          
             
      
            
              Ø
            
            
              
                refusal
      or delay in the extension or grant of exploration, production or
      development contracts.
              
            
          
    
     
    Occidental
may experience adverse consequences, such as risk
of loss or production limitations, because certain of its foreign
operations are located in countries occasionally affected by political
instability, armed conflict, terrorism,
insurgency, civil unrest, security problems, labor unrest, OPEC production
restrictions, equipment import restrictions and sanctions.  Exposure
to such risks may increase if a greater percentage of Occidental’s future oil
and gas production comes from foreign sources.
     
    Occidental’s
oil and gas reserves are based on professional judgments and may be subject to
revision.
    Calculations
of oil and gas reserves depend on estimates concerning reservoir characteristics
and recoverability, as well as capital and operating costs.  If
Occidental were required to make unanticipated significant negative reserve
revisions, its results of operations and stock price could be adversely
affected.
     
    Occidental
may incur significant losses in exploration activities or delays or cost
overruns in development efforts.
    Exploration
is inherently risky.  Exploration and development activities are
subject to misinterpretation of geologic or engineering data, unexpected
geologic conditions or finding reserves of disappointing quality or quantity,
which may result in significant losses.  Occidental bears the risks of project delays and cost
overruns due to equipment failures, approval delays, construction delays,
escalating costs for materials and labor, border disputes and other associated
risks in its development efforts.
     
    Occidental
faces risks associated with its mergers and acquisitions.
    Occidental's
merger and acquisition activities carry risks that it may not fully realize
anticipated benefits.
     
    Concerns
about climate change or energy dependence may affect Occidental’s operations or
results of operations.
    There is
an ongoing scientific effort to assess and quantify the effects of climate
change and the potential human influences on climate.  Related efforts
by various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions to propose or adopt legislation,
regulations or policies, some of which have been adopted, seek to control or
reduce emissions of “greenhouse gases” or consumption of fossil
fuels.  Although the effect of these efforts on Occidental is
uncertain, Occidental faces risks of delays in new or expanded development
projects, increases in taxes, increases in costs to produce and reductions in
the demand for, and restrictions on the use of, its products.
     
    
      
         

      
      
        6
         

      
      
         

      
    
    Occidental’s
businesses may experience catastrophic events.
    The
occurrence of events, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, well blowouts,
fires, explosions, chemical releases, industrial accidents, and other events
that cause operations to cease or be curtailed, may affect Occidental’s
businesses and communities in which it operates.  Third-party
insurance may not provide adequate coverage or Occidental may be self-insured
with respect to the related losses.
     
    Other
risk factors.
    Additional
discussion of risks related to oil and gas reserve estimation processes, price
and demand, litigation, environmental matters, foreign operations, impairments,
derivatives and market risks appears under the
headings: "MD&A — Oil & Gas Segment —Proved
Reserves" and "— Industry Outlook," "Chemical Segment — Industry
Outlook," "Midstream, Marketing and Other Segment — Industry Outlook,"
"Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Matters,"
"Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures," "Foreign Investments," "Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates," and "Derivative Activities and Market
Risk."
     
    
      
        
          
            

                  Item 1B