Item 1A


Risk Factors




Volatile global and local commodity pricing strongly affects Occidental’s results of operations.

Occidental’s financial results typically correlate closely to the prices it obtains for its products.

Changes in consumption patterns, global and local economic conditions, inventory levels, production disruptions, the actions of OPEC, currency exchange rates, market speculation, worldwide drilling and exploration activities, weather, geophysical and technical limitations and other matters may affect the supply and demand dynamics of oil and gas, contributing to price volatility.

Demand and, consequently, the price obtained for Occidental’s chemical products correlate strongly to the health of the United States and global economy, as well as chemical industry expansion and contraction cycles.  Occidental also depends on feedstocks and energy to produce chemicals, which are commodities subject to significant price fluctuations.

 

Occidental’s oil and gas business operates in highly competitive environments, which affect, among other things, its results of operations and its ability to grow production and replace reserves.

Growth in Occidental’s oil and gas production and results of operations depends, in part, on its ability to profitably acquire, develop or find additional reserves.  Occidental replaces significant amounts of its reserves through acquisitions, exploration and large development projects.  Occidental has many competitors (including national oil companies), some of which are: (i) larger and better funded, (ii) may be willing to accept greater risks or (iii) have special competencies.  Competition for reserves may make it more difficult to find attractive investment opportunities or require delay of expected reserve replacement efforts.  During periods of low product prices, any cash conservation efforts may delay production growth and reserve replacement efforts.</di
v>

 

Occidental faces risks associated with its mergers, acquisitions and divestitures.

Occidental's merger, acquisition and divestiture activities carry risks that it may: (i) not fully realize anticipated benefits due to less than expected reserves or production or changed circumstances, such as product prices; (ii) bear unexpected integration costs or experience other integration difficulties; (iii) experience share price declines based on the market's evaluation of the activity; or (iv) assume or retain liabilities that are greater than anticipated.

 

Governmental actions, political instability and labor unrest may affect Occidental’s results of operations.

Occidental’s businesses are subject to the decisions of many governments and political interests.  As a result, Occidental faces risks of:








Ø


new or amended laws and regulations, including those related to labor and employment, taxes, royalty rates, profit repatriation, permitted production rates, drilling, production or manufacturing processes, entitlements, import, export and use of equipment, use of land, water and other natural resources, safety, security and environmental protection, all of which may increase production costs or reduce the demand for Occidental's products; and


  
  


Ø


refusal or delay in the extension or grant of exploration, development or production contracts.







Occidental may experience adverse consequences, such as risk of loss or production limitations, because certain of its foreign operations are located in countries occasionally affected by political instability, armed conflict, terrorism, insurgency, civil unrest, security problems, labor unrest, OPEC production restrictions, equipment import restrictions and sanctions.  Exposure to such risks may increase if a greater percentage of Occidental’s future oil and gas production comes from foreign sources.


There has been recent political instability and civil unrest in Bahrain, Libya and Yemen.  The effect, if any, of these developments on Occidental's operations is unknown at this time, but is not expected to be material.

 


Occidental’s oil and gas reserves are based on professional judgments and may be subject to revision.

Calculations of oil and gas reserves depend on estimates concerning reservoir characteristics and recoverability, including decline rates, as well as capital and operating costs.  If Occidental were required to make unanticipated significant negative reserve revisions, its results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected.

 

Occidental may experience significant losses in exploration activities or delays in development efforts or cost overruns.

Exploration is inherently risky.  Exploration and development activities are subject to delays, misinterpretation of geologic or engineering data, unexpected geologic conditions or finding reserves of disappointing quality or quantity, which may result in significant losses.  Occidental bears the risks of project delays and cost overruns due to equipment failures, approval delays, construction delays, escalating costs or competition for services, materials, supplies or labor, border disputes and other associated risks in its development efforts.

 

Concerns about climate change may affect Occidental’s operations.

There is an ongoing effort to assess and quantify the effects of climate change and the potential human influences on climate.  Various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, including the U.S. federal government and the states of California and New Mexico, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies that seek to control or reduce the production, use or emissions of “greenhouse gases” (GHGs), to control or reduce the production or consumption of fossil fuels, and to increase the use of renewable or alternative energy sources, and such measures are pending in other jurisdictions.   The uncertain outcome and timing of existing and proposed international, national, and state measures intended to reduce GHGs make it difficult to predict their business

 

6



  



  

  



  



impact.  However, Occidental could face risks of delays in development projects, increases in costs and taxes and reductions in the demand for and restrictions on the use of its products as a result of ongoing GHG reduction efforts.

 

Occidental’s businesses may experience catastrophic events.

The occurrence of events, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, well blowouts, fires, explosions, chemical releases and industrial accidents, and other events that cause operations to cease or be curtailed, may negatively affect Occidental’s businesses and communities in which it operates.  Third-party insurance may not provide adequate coverage or Occidental may be self-insured with respect to the related losses.

 

Other risk factors.

Additional discussion of risks related to oil and gas reserve estimation processes, price and demand, litigation, environmental matters, foreign operations, impairments, derivatives and market risks appears under the headings: "MD&A — Oil & Gas Segment —Proved Reserves" and "— Industry Outlook," "Chemical Segment — Industry Outlook," "Midstream, Marketing and Other Segment — Industry Outlook," "Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Matters," "Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures," "Foreign Investments," "Critical Accounting Policies and
 Estimates," and "Derivative Activities and Market Risk."








Item 1B