Item 1A    Risk Factors

Volatile global and local commodity pricing strongly affects Occidental’s results of operations.

Occidental’s financial results correlate closely to the prices it obtains for its products, particularly oil and gas.

Changes in consumption patterns, global and local economic conditions, inventory levels, production disruptions, the actions of OPEC, currency exchange rates, worldwide drilling and exploration activities, technological developments, weather, geophysical and technical limitations and other matters affect the supply and demand dynamics of oil and gas, which, along with the effect of changes in market perceptions, contribute to price unpredictability and volatility.

Demand and, consequently, the price obtained for Occidental’s chemical products correlate strongly to the health of the United States and global economies, as well as chemical industry expansion and contraction cycles.  Occidental also depends on feedstocks and energy to produce chemicals, which are commodities subject to significant price fluctuations.

 

Occidental’s oil and gas business operates in highly competitive environments, which affect, among other things, its results of operations and its ability to grow production and replace reserves.

Results of operations, reserves replacement and growth in oil and gas production depend, in part, on Occidental’s ability to profitably acquire, develop or find additional reserves.  Occidental has many competitors (including national oil companies), some of which are: (i) larger and better funded, (ii) may be willing to accept greater risks or (iii) have special competencies.  Competition for reserves may make it more difficult to find attractive investment opportunities or require delay of reserve replacement efforts.  During periods of low product prices, any cash conservation efforts may delay production growth and reserve replacement efforts.

 

Occidental may experience delays, cost overruns, losses or unrealized expectations in development efforts and exploration activities.

Occidental bears the risks of development delays and cost overruns due to approval delays for drilling and other permits, equipment failures, construction delays, escalating costs or competition for services, materials, supplies or labor, property or border disputes, disappointing reservoir performance and other associated risks that may affect its ability to profitably grow production, replace reserves and achieve its targeted returns.

 

Exploration is inherently risky.  Exploration is subject to delays, misinterpretation of geologic or engineering data, unexpected geologic conditions or finding reserves of disappointing quality or quantity, which may result in significant losses.

 

Governmental actions and political instability may affect Occidental’s results of operations.

Occidental’s businesses are subject to the decisions of many governments and political interests.  As a result, Occidental faces risks of:





Ø


new or amended laws and regulations, or interpretations of such laws and regulations, including those related to labor and employment, taxes, royalty rates, permitted production rates, drilling, manufacturing or production processes (including hydraulic fracturing), entitlements, import, export and use of equipment, use of land, water and other natural resources, safety, security and environmental protection, all of which may increase Occidental’s costs or reduce the demand for its products; and


  
  


Ø


refusal or delay in the extension or grant of exploration, development or production contracts.




Occidental may experience adverse consequences, such as risk of loss or production limitations, because certain of its foreign operations are located in countries occasionally affected by political instability, armed conflict, terrorism, insurgency, civil unrest, security problems, labor unrest, OPEC production restrictions, equipment import restrictions and sanctions.  Exposure to such risks may increase if a greater percentage of Occidental’s future oil and gas production comes from foreign sources.

 

Occidental faces risks associated with its acquisitions and divestitures.

Occidental’s acquisition and divestiture activities carry risks that it may: (i) not fully realize anticipated benefits due to less-than-expected reserves or production or changed circumstances, such as product prices; (ii) bear unexpected integration costs or experience other integration difficulties; (iii) experience share price declines based on the market’s evaluation of the activity; or (iv) assume or retain liabilities that are greater than anticipated.

 

Occidental’s oil and gas reserves are based on professional judgments and may be subject to revision.

Calculations of oil and gas reserves depend on estimates concerning reservoir characteristics and recoverability, including production decline rates and operating performance, as well as capital and operating costs.  If Occidental were required to make unanticipated significant negative reserve revisions, its results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected.

 







6



  



  

  



  



Concerns about climate change may affect Occidental’s operations.

There is an ongoing effort to assess and quantify the effects of climate change and the potential human influences on climate.  The U.S. federal government and the states of California and New Mexico have adopted, and other jurisdictions are considering, legislation, regulations or policies that seek to control or reduce the production, use or emissions of “greenhouse gases” (GHG), to control or reduce the production or consumption of fossil fuels, and to increase the use of renewable or alternative energy sources.  California’s cap-and-trade program is moving into the implementation phase.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has begun to regulate certain GHG emissions from both stationary and mobile sources.  The uncertain outcome and timing of existing and proposed international, national and state measures make it difficult to predict their business impact.  However, Occidental could face risks of delays in development projects, increases in costs and taxes and reductions in the demand for and restrictions on the use of its products as a result of ongoing GHG reduction efforts.

 

Occidental’s businesses may experience catastrophic events.

The occurrence of events, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, well blowouts, fires, explosions, chemical releases, industrial accidents, physical or cyber attacks and other events that cause operations to cease or be curtailed, may negatively affect Occidental’s businesses and the communities in which it operates.  Third-party insurance may not provide adequate coverage or Occidental may be self-insured with respect to the related losses.

 

Other risk factors.

Additional discussion of risks related to oil and gas reserves estimation processes, price and demand, litigation, environmental matters, foreign operations, impairments, derivatives and market risks appears under the headings: "MD&A — Oil & Gas Segment — Proved Reserves" and "— Industry Outlook," "— Chemical Segment — Industry Outlook," "— Midstream, Marketing and Other Segment — Industry Outlook," "— Consolidated Results of Operations," "— Lawsuits, Claims and Other Contingencies," "— Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures," "— Foreign Investments," "— Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates," and "— Derivative Activities and Market Risk."

 

Item 1B