Item 1A and
    elsewhere in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    (“Form 10-K”):


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general market and economic conditions including, among others,
    changes in United States (“U.S.”) employment and wage
    levels, changes in new hiring trends, legislative changes to
    stimulate the economy, changes in short- and long-term interest
    rates, changes in the fair value and the credit rating of
    securities held by us, and accessibility of financing;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in demand for our services and products, ability to
    develop and market new services and products effectively,
    pricing changes and the impact of competition, and the
    availability of skilled workers;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the laws regulating collection and payment of payroll
    taxes, professional employer organizations, and employee
    benefits, including retirement plans, workers’
    compensation, health insurance, state unemployment, and
    section 125 plans;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in workers’ compensation rates and underlying
    claims trends;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of failure to keep pace with technological
    changes and provide timely enhancements to services and products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of failure of our operating facilities, computer
    systems, and communication systems during a catastrophic event;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of third-party service providers failing to
    perform their functions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of penalties and losses resulting from errors
    and omissions in performing services;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible inability of our clients to meet their payroll
    obligations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible failure of internal controls or our inability to
    implement business processing improvements; and




 



     
        • 

    
    potentially unfavorable outcomes related to pending legal
    matters.





 


    Any of these factors could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from our anticipated results. The information
    provided in this
    Form 10-K
    is based upon the facts and circumstances known at this time. We
    undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking
    statements after the date of filing of this
    Form 10-K
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or
    “Commission”) to reflect events or circumstances after
    such date, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 


    We are a leading provider of comprehensive payroll, human
    resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to
    medium-sized businesses. As of May 31, 2009, we serviced
    approximately 554,000 clients and had approximately
    12,500 employees. We maintain our corporate headquarters in
    Rochester, New York, and have more than 100 offices nationwide.



    
    1



Table of Contents




    As of May 31, 2009, we serviced approximately 1,600 clients
    in Germany through four offices.


 


    Our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in 1979. We
    report our results of operations and financial condition as one
    business segment. Our fiscal year ends May 31.


 



    Company
    Strategy


 


    We are focused on achieving strong, long-term financial
    performance by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    providing high-quality, timely, accurate, and affordable
    comprehensive payroll and integrated human resource services;




 



     
        • 

    
    delivering these services utilizing a well-trained and
    responsive work force through a network of local and corporate
    offices servicing more than 100 of the largest markets in the
    U.S.;




 



     
        • 

    
    growing our client base, primarily through the efforts of our
    direct sales force;




 



     
        • 

    
    continually improving client service and maximizing client
    retention;




 



     
        • 

    
    capitalizing on the growth opportunities within our current
    client base and from new clients by increasing utilization of
    our payroll and human resource ancillary services and products;




 



     
        • 

    
    capitalizing on and leveraging our highly developed
    technological and operating infrastructure;




 



     
        • 

    
    investing in our business through expansion of our service and
    product offerings to continually add value for our
    clients; and




 



     
        • 

    
    supplementing our growth through strategic acquisitions when
    appropriate opportunities arise.





 



    Market
    Opportunities


 


    Outsourcing of payroll and human resource functions allows
    small- to medium-sized businesses to minimize the administrative
    burden and compliance risks associated with increasingly complex
    and changing administrative requirements and federal, state, and
    local tax regulations. By utilizing the expertise of outsourcing
    service providers, businesses are better able to efficiently
    meet their compliance requirements and administrative burdens
    while, at the same time, providing competitive benefits for
    their employees. The technical capabilities, knowledge, and
    operational expertise that we have built, along with the broad
    portfolio of ancillary services and products we offer our
    clients, have enabled us to capitalize on the trend to outsource
    these types of services.


 


    Industry data indicates there are approximately
    11.5 million employers in the geographic markets that we
    currently serve within the U.S. Of those employers,
    approximately 99% have fewer than 100 employees and are our
    primary customers and target market. Based on publicly available
    industry data, we estimate that all payroll processors combined
    serve approximately 10% to 15% of the potential businesses in
    the target market, with much of the unpenetrated market being
    composed of businesses with ten or fewer employees. We remain
    focused on servicing small- to medium-sized businesses based
    upon the growth potential that we believe exists in this market
    segment.


 



    Clients


 


    We serve a diverse base of small- to medium-sized clients
    operating in a broad range of industries located throughout the
    U.S. As of May 31, 2009, we serviced approximately
    554,000 clients. We utilize service agreements and arrangements
    with clients that are generally terminable by the client at any
    time or upon relatively short notice. For the year ended
    May 31, 2009 (“fiscal 2009”), client retention
    was approximately 77% of our beginning of the fiscal year client
    base. The most significant factor impacting client retention is
    clients going out of business or no longer having any employees,
    which increased 17% for fiscal 2009. This, along with pricing
    pressure from our largest direct competitor and regional payroll
    providers, kept our client retention rate slightly below
    historical levels. No single client has a material impact on
    total service revenue or results of operations.



    
    2



Table of Contents




    The composition of the market and the client base we serve (in
    the U.S.) by number of employees is as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    Business size
    


 


    Estimated market distribution
    


 


    Paychex, Inc. distribution
    





    (Number of employees)



 



    (11.5 million businesses in Paychex areas served)



 



    of client base




 





    1-4



 


 


    79


    %


 


 


    40


    %





    5-19



 


 


    16


    %


 


 


    42


    %





    20-49



 


 


    3


    %


 


 


    12


    %





    50-99



 


 


    1


    %


 


 


    4


    %





    100+



 


 


    1


    %


 


 


    2


    %








 



    Services
    and Products


 


    We offer a comprehensive portfolio of services and products that
    allow our clients to meet their diverse payroll and human
    resource needs. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    payroll processing;




 



     
        • 

    
    payroll tax administration services;




 



     
        • 

    
    employee payment services;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory compliance services (new-hire reporting and
    garnishment processing);




 



     
        • 

    
    comprehensive human resource outsourcing services;




 



     
        • 

    
    retirement services administration;




 



     
        • 

    
    health and benefits services;




 



     
        • 

    
    workers’ compensation insurance services;




 



     
        • 

    
    time and attendance solutions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other human resource services and products.





 


    By offering ancillary services that leverage the information
    gathered in the base payroll processing service, we are able to
    provide comprehensive outsourcing services that allow employers
    to expand their employee benefits offerings at an affordable
    cost. We mainly earn our revenue through recurring fees for
    services performed. Service revenue is primarily driven by the
    number of clients, checks or transactions per client per pay
    period, and utilization of ancillary services.


 



    Payroll
    Processing


 


    Payroll processing is the foundation of our service portfolio.
    Our payroll service includes the calculation, preparation, and
    delivery of employee payroll checks; production of internal
    accounting records and management reports; preparation of
    federal, state, and local payroll tax returns; and collection
    and remittance of clients’ payroll obligations. Payroll
    processing clients are charged a base fee each period that
    payroll is processed, plus a fee per employee check processed.
    Our payroll services are provided through either our core
    payroll or Major Market Services (“MMS”) and are made
    available to clients via traditional or Internet-based methods.


 


    Paychex Online is our secure Internet site, which offers core
    payroll clients a suite of self-service, interactive services
    and products twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. These
    include Paychex Online
    Payroll®,

    Internet Time Sheet, Paychex Online Reports, and General Ledger
    Reporting Service. Clients can communicate payroll information
    through the Internet Time Sheet or use the Online Payroll
    service, and can access current and historical payroll
    information using Paychex Online Reports. The General Ledger
    Reporting Service transfers payroll information calculated by us
    to the clients’ general ledger accounting software,
    eliminating manual entries and improving the accuracy of
    bookkeeping. Approximately
    one-half of
    our clients are currently utilizing some form of Paychex Online
    payroll service.



    
    3



Table of Contents




    Major Market Services:  MMS primarily
    targets companies that have more complex payroll and benefits
    needs or have outgrown our core payroll service. We currently
    offer this service in all of our significant markets.
    Approximately one-third of new MMS clients are conversions from
    our core payroll service.


 


    We offer a software-as-a-service solution to meet the payroll
    and human resource administrative needs of our MMS clients. Our
    proprietary MMS software,
    Preview®,

    provides a powerful payroll solution and allows smooth
    integration with other Paychex service offerings. Preview can be
    used as an
    on-site,
    PC-based system or via a secure web-hosted environment.


 


    Preview can be integrated with various Internet-based services
    offered to assist clients with their administrative human
    resource and payroll needs, in every step of the employee life
    cycle. Ancillary services particularly offered to our MMS
    clients include Paychex HR Online, BeneTrac, Paychex Time and
    Labor Online, Paychex Expense Manager, and applicant tracking.
    Paychex HR Online, our Internet-based human resource management
    system, offers powerful tools for managing employee benefits,
    personnel information, and critical human resource compliance
    and reporting needs. In addition, its self-service features
    allow for better communication between management and employees.
    BeneTrac, our employee benefits management and administration
    system, provides our MMS clients a simple, accurate, and
    cost-effective solution for streamlined benefits management.
    Paychex Time and Labor Online makes the time and attendance
    process more efficient. This solution can reduce time spent on
    preparing timesheets, minimize redundant data entry, increase
    awareness of critical labor information, and aid in compliance
    with federal time recording requirements. Paychex Expense
    Manager is an integrated payroll and expense management solution
    that allows clients to control discretionary spending while
    giving employees an easy-to-use, secure tool to prepare and
    submit expense reports online. We have also partnered with Taleo
    Corporation for applicant tracking, providing our MMS clients
    with a tool to manage their recruiting process in order to
    better hire and retain talented employees.


 


    In addition, MMS clients can select from a number of á la
    carte payroll and human resource ancillary services or opt for
    our comprehensive human resource and payroll outsourcing
    solution, Paychex
    Premier®

    Human Resources (“Paychex Premier”). This flexibility
    allows our clients to define the solution that best meets their
    particular needs.


 



    Ancillary
    Services and Products


 


    We provide our clients with a portfolio of ancillary services
    and products that have been developed and refined over many
    years. Ancillary services and products provide us with
    additional recurring revenue streams and increased service
    efficiencies as these services and products are integrated with
    our payroll processing services. We offer the following
    ancillary services and products:


 


    Payroll tax administration services:  As
    of May 31, 2009, 93% of our clients utilized our payroll
    tax administration services (including
    Taxpay®),

    which provide accurate preparation and timely filing of
    quarterly and year-end tax returns, as well as the electronic
    transfer of funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies
    (federal, state, and local). Nearly all of our new clients
    purchase our payroll tax administration services. In connection
    with these services, we electronically collect payroll taxes
    from clients’ bank accounts, typically on payday, prepare
    and file the applicable tax returns, and remit taxes to the
    applicable tax or regulatory agencies on the respective due
    dates. These taxes are typically paid between one and
    30 days after receipt of collections from clients, with
    some items extending to 90 days. We handle regulatory
    correspondence, amendments, and penalty and interest disputes,
    and we are subject to cash penalties imposed by tax or
    regulatory agencies for late filings and late or under payment
    of taxes. Clients utilizing the payroll tax administration
    services are charged a base fee and a fee per transaction for
    each period that payroll is processed. In addition to fees paid
    by clients, we earn interest on client funds that are collected
    before due dates and invested until remittance to the applicable
    tax or regulatory agencies.


 


    Employee payment services:  As of
    May 31, 2009, 75% of our clients utilized our employee
    payment services, which provide the employer the option of
    paying their employees by direct deposit, Chase Pay Card
    Plus, a check drawn on a Paychex, Inc. account
    (Readychex®),

    or a check drawn on the employer’s account and
    electronically signed by us. More than 80% of new clients select
    some form of employee payment services. For the first three
    methods, we electronically collect net payroll from the
    clients’ bank account, typically one business day before
    payday, and provide payment to the employee on payday. Our
    flexible payment options provide



    
    4



Table of Contents




    a cost-effective solution that offers the benefit of convenient,
    one-step payroll account reconciliation for employers. Clients
    utilizing employee payment services are charged a base fee for
    each period that payroll is processed and a fee per transaction
    or per employee depending on the service provided. In addition
    to fees paid by clients, we earn interest on client funds that
    are collected before pay dates and invested until remittance to
    clients’ employees.


 


    Regulatory compliance services:  We
    offer new-hire reporting services, which enable clients to
    comply with federal and state requirements to report information
    on newly hired employees. This information aids the government
    in enforcing child support orders and minimizes fraudulent
    unemployment and workers’ compensation insurance claims.
    Our garnishment processing service provides deductions from
    employees’ pay, forwards payments to third-party agencies,
    including those that require electronic payments, and tracks the
    obligations to fulfillment. These services enable employers to
    comply with legal requirements and reduce the risk of penalties.


 


    Comprehensive human resource outsourcing
    services:  Paychex Premier provides businesses
    a full-service approach to the outsourcing of employer and
    employee administrative needs. Paychex Premier offers businesses
    a combined package of services that includes payroll, employer
    compliance, human resource and employee benefits administration,
    risk management outsourcing, and the
    on-site
    availability of a professionally trained human resource
    representative. This comprehensive bundle of services is
    designed to make it easier for businesses to manage their
    payroll and related benefit costs while providing a benefits
    package equal to that of larger companies. Our Professional
    Employer Organization (“PEO”) provides businesses with
    primarily the same services as Paychex Premier, except we serve
    as a co-employer of the clients’ employees, assume the
    risks and rewards of workers’ compensation insurance, and
    provide more sophisticated health care offerings to PEO clients.
    Our PEO service is available primarily for clients domiciled in
    select U.S. states where the utilization of PEOs is more
    prevalent. We offer our PEO service through our subsidiary,
    Paychex Business Solutions, Inc. For comprehensive human
    resource outsourcing services, the client pays a fee per
    employee per processing period. As of May 31, 2009,
    comprehensive human resource outsourcing services were utilized
    by 18,000 clients with approximately 453,000 client employees.


 


    Retirement services administration:  Our
    retirement services product line offers a variety of options to
    clients, including 401(k) plans, 401(k) SIMPLE, SIMPLE IRA,
    401(k) plans with safe harbor provisions, profit sharing, and
    money purchase plans. These services provide plan
    implementation, ongoing compliance with government regulations,
    employee and employer reporting, participant and employer access
    online, electronic funds transfer, and other administrative
    services. In fiscal 2009, we introduced auto enrollment as an
    optional plan feature, which allows employers to automatically
    enroll their employees in their company’s 401(k) plan and
    increase overall plan participation. Clients have the ability to
    choose from a group of pre-defined fund selections or to
    customize their investment options within their plan. Selling
    efforts for these services are focused primarily on our existing
    payroll client base, as the processed payroll information allows
    for data integration necessary to provide these services
    efficiently. We are one of the largest 401(k) recordkeepers for
    small businesses in the U.S. Clients utilizing this service
    are charged a one-time set up fee, a monthly recurring fee, and
    a fee per employee. We earn a fee approximating thirty basis
    points from the external fund managers based on the total asset
    value of client employee 401(k) funds. The asset value of client
    employee 401(k) funds externally managed totaled approximately
    $8.5 billion as of May 31, 2009. Retirement services
    were utilized by approximately 50,000 clients as of May 31,
    2009.


 


    Health and benefits services:  We offer
    health and benefits services through our licensed insurance
    agency, acting as general agent to provide insurance through a
    variety of carriers who are underwriters. Our services include
    shopping for the best plans, providing comparisons of national
    and regional insurers to match features and affordability to the
    client’s needs, informing and enrolling employees, tracking
    additions and terminations, calculating and initiating payroll
    deductions, communicating with the insurance carriers, and
    assisting with renewal of policies. These services simplify the
    insurance process while allowing access to group rates, enabling
    our clients to offer valuable benefits to their employees at an
    affordable cost.


 


    Workers’ compensation insurance
    services:  Most employers are required to
    carry workers’ compensation insurance, which provides
    payments to employees who are unable to work because of
    job-related injuries. We provide workers’ compensation
    insurance services through our licensed insurance agency, acting
    as general agent to provide insurance through a variety of
    insurance carriers who are underwriters. Our Workers’
    Compensation Payment Service uses rate and job classification
    information to enable clients to pay workers’ compensation



    
    5



Table of Contents




    premiums in regular monthly amounts rather than with large
    up-front payments, which stabilizes their cash flow and
    minimizes year-end adjustments. Our Workers’ Compensation
    Report Service provides our clients with comprehensive
    information to allow them to better manage workers’
    compensation insurance costs. As of May 31, 2009,
    approximately 77,000 clients utilized our workers’
    compensation insurance services.


 


    Time and attendance solutions:  We offer
    Time In A
    Box®,

    Paychex Time and Labor Online, and other time and attendance
    solutions, which help employers minimize the time spent
    compiling time sheet information. These computer-based systems
    allow the employer flexibility to handle multiple payroll
    scenarios and result in improved productivity, accuracy, and
    reliability in the payroll process. Certain clients are charged
    a monthly fee for use of hardware, software, and support.
    Clients also have the option to purchase the hardware and
    software with annual maintenance contracts.


 


    Other human resource services and
    products:  We offer the outsourcing of plan
    administration under section 125 of the Internal Revenue
    Code, allowing employees to use pre-tax dollars to pay for
    certain health insurance benefits and health and dependent care
    expenses not covered by insurance. All required implementation,
    administration, compliance, claims processing and reimbursement,
    and coverage tests are provided with these services. We offer
    state unemployment insurance services, which provide clients
    with prompt processing for all claims, appeals, determinations,
    change statements, and requests for separation documents. Other
    Human Resource Services products include employee handbooks,
    management manuals, and personnel and required regulatory forms.
    These products are designed to simplify clients’ office
    processes and enhance their employee benefits programs.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    We market our services primarily through our direct sales force
    based in the metropolitan markets we serve. Our sales
    representatives specialize in payroll or Human Resource
    Services. For the year ending May 31, 2010, our sales force
    is expected to total approximately 2,370 and is expected to be
    comprised of the following categories of sales representatives:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Payroll



 


 


    1,590


 





    Retirement services administration and other human resource
    services



 


 


    350


 





    Comprehensive human resource outsourcing services



 


 


    210


 





    Licensed agents for health and benefits services



 


 


    160


 





    Licensed agents for workers’ compensation insurance



 


 


    60


 




 


 


 


 


 





    Total sales representatives



 


 


    2,370


 




 


 


 


 


 








 


    In addition to our direct selling and marketing efforts, we
    utilize relationships with existing clients, certified public
    accountants (“CPAs”), and banks for new client
    referrals. More than 60% of our new clients (excluding
    acquisitions) come from these referral sources. To further
    enhance our strong relationship with CPAs, we have partnered
    with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
    (“AICPA”) as the preferred payroll provider for its
    AICPA Business Solutions Partner Program. As of May 31,
    2009, more than 30,000 CPA firms nationwide participated in this
    program, which includes our payroll services and retirement
    services administration.


 


    Our website at www.paychex.com, which includes online
    payroll sales presentations and service and product information,
    is a cost-efficient tool that serves as a source of leads and
    new sales while complementing the efforts of our direct sales
    force. This online tool allows us to market to clients in more
    geographically remote areas. Our sales representatives are also
    supported by marketing, advertising, public relations, trade
    shows, and telemarketing programs. We have grown and expect to
    continue to grow our direct sales force in key areas, primarily
    MMS and health and benefits services. In recent years, we have
    increased our emphasis on the selling of ancillary services and
    products to both new clients and our existing client base.


 


    In addition, Advantage Payroll Services Inc.
    (“Advantage”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Paychex,
    Inc., has license agreements with independently owned associate
    offices (“Associates”), which are responsible for
    selling and marketing Advantage payroll services and performing
    certain operational functions, while Paychex, Inc. and



    
    6



Table of Contents




    Advantage provide all centralized back-office payroll processing
    and payroll tax administration services. The marketing and
    selling by the Associates is conducted under their own logos.


 



    Competition


 


    The market for payroll processing and human resource services is
    highly competitive and fragmented. We believe our primary
    national competitor,
    ADP®

    (“Automatic Data Processing, Inc.”), is the largest
    U.S. third-party provider of payroll processing and human
    resource services in terms of revenue. We compete with other
    national, regional, local, and online service providers, all of
    which we believe have significantly smaller client bases than us.


 


    In addition to traditional payroll processing and human resource
    service providers, we compete with in-house payroll and human
    resource systems and departments. Payroll and human resource
    systems and software are sold by many vendors. Our Human
    Resource Services also compete with a variety of providers of
    human resource services, such as retirement services companies,
    insurance companies, and human resources and benefits consulting
    firms.


 


    Competition in the payroll processing and human resource
    services industry is primarily based on service responsiveness,
    product quality and reputation, breadth of service and product
    offering, and price. We believe we are competitive in each of
    these areas.


 



    Software
    Maintenance and Development


 


    The ever-changing mandates of federal, state, and local tax and
    regulatory agencies require us to regularly update the
    proprietary software we utilize to provide payroll and human
    resource services to our clients. We are continually engaged in
    developing enhancements to and maintenance of our various
    software platforms to meet the changing requirements of our
    clients and the marketplace.


 



    Employees


 


    As of May 31, 2009, we employed approximately
    12,500 people. None of our employees were covered by
    collective bargaining agreements.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    We own or license and use a number of trademarks, trade names,
    copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, computer programs and
    software, and other intellectual property rights. Taken as a
    whole, our intellectual property rights are material to the
    conduct of our business. Where it is determined to be
    appropriate, we take measures to protect our intellectual
    property rights, including, but not limited to,
    confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements or policies with
    employees, vendors, and others; license agreements with
    licensees and licensors of intellectual property; and
    registration of certain trademarks. We believe that the
    “Paychex” name, trademark, and logo are of material
    importance to us.


 



    Seasonality


 


    There is no significant seasonality to our business. However,
    during our third fiscal quarter, which ends in February, the
    number of new payroll clients, new retirement services clients,
    and new Paychex Premier and PEO worksite employees tends to be
    higher than during the rest of the fiscal year, primarily
    because a majority of new clients begin using our services in
    the beginning of a calendar year. In addition, calendar year-end
    transaction processing and client funds activity are
    traditionally higher during the third fiscal quarter due to
    clients paying year-end bonuses and requesting additional
    year-end services. Historically, as a result of these factors,
    our total revenue has been slightly higher in the third fiscal
    quarter, with greater sales commission expenses also reported in
    this quarter.


 



    Other


 


    Information about our services and products, stockholder
    information, press releases, and filings with the SEC can be
    found on our website at www.paychex.com. Our
    Form 10-Ks,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and other SEC filings, and any amendments to such reports and
    filings, are made available,



    
    7



Table of Contents




    free of charge, on the Investor Relations section of our website
    as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed
    with, or furnished to, the SEC. Also, copies of our Annual
    Report to Stockholders and Proxy Statement, to be issued in
    connection with our 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, will be
    made available, free of charge, upon written request submitted
    to Paychex, Inc.,
    c/o Corporate
    Secretary, 911 Panorama Trail South, Rochester, New York
    14625-2396.


 



    Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors


 


    Our future results of operations are subject to a number of
    risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could
    cause actual results to differ materially from historical and
    current results and from our projections. Important factors
    known to us that could cause such differences include, but are
    not limited to, those discussed below and those contained in the
    “Safe Harbor” statement at the beginning of
    Part I of this
    Form 10-K.


 


    We may be adversely impacted by volatility in the
    financial and economic environment:  During
    periods of weakening economic conditions, employment levels may
    decrease and interest rates may become more volatile. These
    conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction
    volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of
    business. Current or potential clients may decide to reduce
    their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. In
    addition, new business starts may be affected by an inability to
    obtain credit. The interest we earn on funds held for clients
    may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to
    invest and lower interest rates. In addition, during periods of
    volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments
    may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to
    invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client
    funds. Constriction in the credit markets may impact the
    availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest
    credit ratings. We historically have not borrowed against
    available credit arrangements to meet liquidity needs. However,
    should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of
    large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit
    our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain
    them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. If all of
    these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in
    effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations.


 


    Our interest earned on funds held for clients may be
    impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the
    amount of tax withheld or timing of
    remittance:  We receive interest income from
    investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to
    applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. A
    change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to
    be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable
    tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest
    income.


 


    Our services may be adversely impacted by changes in
    government regulations and policies:  Many of
    our services, particularly payroll tax administration services
    and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed
    according to government regulations that continue to change.
    Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of
    benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide
    employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and
    employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or
    eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially
    decrease our revenue. Added requirements could also increase our
    cost of doing business. Failure by us to modify our services in
    a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a
    material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.


 


    We may not be able to keep pace with changes in
    technology:  To maintain our growth strategy,
    we must adapt and respond to technological advances and
    technological requirements of our clients. Our future success
    will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase
    the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our
    systems that meet our clients’ requirements. We continue to
    make significant investments related to the development of new
    technology. If our systems become outdated, we may be at a
    disadvantage when competing in our industry. There can be no
    assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will
    be successful. If we do not integrate and update our systems in
    a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to
    provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse
    effect to our business and results of operations.


 


    In the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity
    plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and
    adversely interrupt operations:  Our
    operations are dependent on our ability to protect our
    infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural
    disaster, unauthorized security breach, power loss,
    telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events
    that could have a significant disruptive effect on our
    operations. We have a



    
    8



Table of Contents




    business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure
    due to any of these events. If the business continuity plan is
    unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could
    potentially lose client data or experience material adverse
    interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our
    clients.


 


    We may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party
    service providers to perform their
    functions:  As part of providing services to
    clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers.
    These service providers include, but are not limited to,
    couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to
    electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees.
    Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver
    their services in a timely manner could result in material
    interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and
    result in significant penalties or liabilities to us.


 


    We may make errors and omissions in providing services,
    which could result in significant penalties and liabilities for
    us:  Processing, tracking, collecting, and
    remitting client funds to the applicable tax or regulatory
    agencies, client employees, and other third parties are complex
    operations. These tasks could be subject to error and these
    errors could include, but are not limited to, late filing with
    applicable tax or regulatory agencies, underpayment of taxes,
    and failure to comply with applicable banking regulations and
    laws relating to employee benefits administration, which could
    result in significant penalties and liabilities that would
    adversely affect our results of operations. We could also
    transfer funds in error to an incorrect party or for the wrong
    amount, and may be unable to correct the error or recover the
    funds, resulting in a loss to us.


 


    We may experience a loss as the result of our clients
    having insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on
    their behalf to applicable tax or regulatory agencies and
    employees:  As part of the payroll processing
    service, we are authorized by our clients to transfer money from
    their bank accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and
    applicable tax or regulatory agencies. It is possible that we
    would be held liable for such amounts in the event the client
    has insufficient funds to cover them. We have made in the past,
    and may make in the future, payments on our clients’ behalf
    for which we are not reimbursed, resulting in a loss to us.


 


    Our business and reputation may be affected by our ability
    to keep clients’ information
    confidential:  Our business involves the use
    of significant amounts of private and confidential client
    information including employees’ identification numbers,
    bank accounts, and retirement account information. This
    information is critical to the accurate and timely provision of
    services to our clients, and certain information may be
    transmitted via the Internet. There is no guarantee that our
    systems and processes are adequate to protect against all
    security breaches. If our systems are disrupted or fail for any
    reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized
    persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss,
    harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. Such
    events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation,
    regulation investigation and penalties, loss of clients’
    business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there
    could be a material adverse effect on our business and results
    of operations.


 


    We may be exposed to additional risks related to our
    co-employment relationship within our PEO
    business:  Many federal and state laws that
    apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically
    address the obligations and responsibilities of the
    “co-employment” relationship. As a result, there is a
    possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations
    of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or
    omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our
    agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or
    violations. Although our agreements with the clients provide
    that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable
    to its own or its employees’ conduct, we may not be able to
    effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. In
    addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our
    employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the
    “employer” under any of the state or federal laws.


 


    We may not realize the anticipated benefits from
    acquisitions:  From time to time we acquire
    other companies. The effective integration of acquired companies
    may be difficult to achieve. It is also possible that we may not
    realize any or all expected benefits from acquisitions or
    achieve benefits from acquisitions in a timely manner. In
    addition, we may incur significant costs and management’s
    time and attention may be diverted from other parts of our
    business in connection with the integration of acquisitions.
    Failure to effectively integrate future acquisitions could have
    a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    We may have an adverse outcome of legal matters, which
    could harm our business:  We are subject to
    various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course
    of business. These include disputes or potential disputes
    related to breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty,
    employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters. As of
    May 31, 2009, we have a reserve of $20.4 million for
    pending litigation. Refer to Item 3 of this
    Form 10-K
    for additional disclosure regarding legal proceedings. In light
    of the litigation reserve recorded, our management currently
    believes that resolution of outstanding legal matters will not
    have a material adverse effect on our financial position or
    results of our operations. However, legal matters are subject to
    inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that
    their ultimate resolution could have a material adverse effect
    on our financial position and results of operations in the
    period in which any such effect is recorded.


 


    Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market
    risk:  Refer to Item 7A of this
    Form 10-K
    for a discussion on Market Risk Factors.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B