Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K
    (“Form 10-K”):


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general market and economic conditions including, among others,
    changes in United States (“U.S.”) employment and wage
    levels, changes in new hiring trends, legislative changes to
    stimulate the economy, changes in short- and long-term interest
    rates, changes in the fair value and the credit rating of
    securities held by us, and accessibility of financing;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in demand for our services and products, ability to
    develop and market new services and products effectively,
    pricing changes and the impact of competition, and the
    availability of skilled workers;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the laws regulating collection and payment of payroll
    taxes, professional employer organizations, and employee
    benefits, including retirement plans, workers’
    compensation, health insurance, state unemployment, and
    section 125 plans;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in workers’ compensation rates and underlying
    claims trends;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of failure to keep pace with technological
    changes and provide timely enhancements to services and products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of failure of our operating facilities, computer
    systems, and communication systems during a catastrophic event;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of third-party service providers failing to
    perform their functions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible failure of internal controls or our inability to
    implement business processing improvements; and




 



     
        • 

    
    potentially unfavorable outcomes related to pending legal
    matters.





 


    Any of these factors could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from our anticipated results. The information
    provided in this
    Form 10-K
    is based upon the facts and circumstances known at this time. We
    undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking
    statements after the date of filing of this
    Form 10-K
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or
    “Commission”) to reflect events or circumstances after
    such date, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 


    We are a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and
    benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized
    businesses. As of May 31, 2011, we serviced approximately
    564,000 clients and had approximately 12,400 employees. We
    maintain our corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York, and
    have more than 100 offices nationwide.


 


    As of May 31, 2011, we serviced approximately 1,900 clients
    in Germany through four offices.


 


    Our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in 1979. We
    report our results of operations and financial condition as one
    business segment. Our fiscal year ends May 31.




    
    1



Table of Contents






    Company
    Strategy


 


    We are focused on achieving strong, long-term financial
    performance by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    providing high-quality, timely, accurate, and affordable
    comprehensive payroll and integrated human resource services;




 



     
        • 

    
    delivering these services utilizing a well-trained and
    responsive work force through a network of local and corporate
    offices servicing more than 100 of the largest markets in the
    U.S.;




 



     
        • 

    
    growing our client base, primarily through the efforts of our
    direct sales force;




 



     
        • 

    
    continually improving client service to maximize client
    retention;




 



     
        • 

    
    capitalizing on the growth opportunities within our existing
    client base and from new clients by increasing utilization of
    our payroll and human resource ancillary services and products;




 



     
        • 

    
    capitalizing on and leveraging our highly developed technology
    and operating infrastructure;




 



     
        • 

    
    investing in our business through expansion of our service and
    product offerings to continually add value for our
    clients; and




 



     
        • 

    
    supplementing our growth through strategic acquisitions when
    appropriate opportunities arise.





 



    Services
    and Products


 


    We offer a comprehensive portfolio of services and products that
    allow our clients to meet their diverse payroll and human
    resource needs. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    payroll processing;




 



     
        • 

    
    payroll tax administration services;




 



     
        • 

    
    employee payment services;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory compliance services (new-hire reporting and
    garnishment processing);




 



     
        • 

    
    Paychex HR Solutions;




 



     
        • 

    
    retirement services administration;




 



     
        • 

    
    insurance services;




 



     
        • 

    
    eServices; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other human resource services and products.





 


    By offering ancillary services that leverage the information
    gathered in the base payroll processing service, we are able to
    provide comprehensive outsourcing services that allow employers
    to expand their employee benefits offerings at an affordable
    cost. We mainly earn our revenue through recurring fees for
    services performed. Service revenue is primarily driven by the
    number of clients, checks or transactions per client per pay
    period, and utilization of ancillary services.


 



    Payroll


 


    Payroll processing is the foundation of our service portfolio.
    Our payroll service includes the calculation, preparation, and
    delivery of employee payroll checks; production of internal
    accounting records and management reports; preparation of
    federal, state, and local payroll tax returns; and collection
    and remittance of clients’ payroll obligations. Our payroll
    services are provided through either our core payroll or Major
    Market Services (“MMS”) and are made available to
    clients via traditional or Internet-based methods.


 


    Paychex Online is our secure Internet site, which offers core
    payroll clients a suite of self-service, interactive services
    and products twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. These
    include Paychex Online
    Payroll®,

    Internet Time Sheet, Paychex Online Reports, and General Ledger
    Reporting Service. Using these services, clients can





    
    2



Table of Contents





    communicate payroll information, access current and historical
    payroll information, and transfer payroll information calculated
    by us to their general ledger accounting software, eliminating
    manual entries and improving the accuracy of bookkeeping. More
    than one-half of our clients are currently utilizing some form
    of Paychex Online payroll service.


 


    During the fiscal year ended May 31, 2011 (“fiscal
    2011”), we acquired SurePayroll, Inc.
    (“SurePayroll”), a provider of software-as-a-service
    payroll processing for small businesses. This acquisition
    expands our product offering for small business clients to
    self-service and mobile applications.


 


    Major Market Services:  MMS primarily
    targets companies that have more sophisticated payroll and
    benefits needs. We currently offer this service in all of our
    significant markets. Our proprietary MMS software,
    Preview®,

    provides a powerful payroll solution and allows smooth
    integration with other Paychex service offerings. Preview can be
    used as an
    on-site,
    PC-based system or via a secure web-hosted environment.


 


    We offer a software-as-a-service solution to meet the payroll
    and human resource administrative needs of our MMS clients. This
    allows Preview to be integrated with various Internet-based
    services offered to assist clients with their administrative
    human resource and payroll needs through every step of the
    employee life cycle. Ancillary services particularly beneficial
    to our MMS clients include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Paychex HR Online, our Internet-based human resource management
    system, offers powerful tools for managing employee benefits,
    personnel information, and critical human resource compliance
    and reporting needs. In addition, its self-service features
    allow for better communication between management and employees.




 



     
        • 

    
    BeneTrac, our employee benefits management and administration
    system, provides our MMS clients a simple, accurate, and
    cost-effective solution for streamlined benefits management.




 



     
        • 

    
    Paychex Time and Labor Online makes the time and attendance
    process more efficient. This solution can reduce time spent on
    preparing timesheets, minimize redundant data entry, increase
    awareness of critical labor information, and aid in compliance
    with federal time recording requirements.




 



     
        • 

    
    Paychex Expense Manager is an integrated payroll and expense
    management solution that allows clients to control discretionary
    spending while giving employees an easy-to-use, secure tool to
    prepare and submit expense reports online.




 



     
        • 

    
    Applicant tracking, offered through our partnership with Taleo
    Corporation, provides our MMS clients with a tool to manage
    their recruiting process in order to better hire and retain
    talented employees.





 


    MMS clients can select Paychex One-Source Solutions, which
    seamlessly integrates Preview, Paychex Time and Labor Online,
    and Paychex HR Online applications through a single, web-based
    client portal. MMS clients also have the option to select from a
    number of á la carte payroll and human resource ancillary
    services or opt for our comprehensive human resource and payroll
    outsourcing solution, Paychex HR Solutions. This flexibility
    allows our clients to define the solution that best meets their
    particular needs.


 


    Payroll tax administration services:  As
    of May 31, 2011, 95% of our clients utilized our payroll
    tax administration services (including
    Taxpay®),

    which provide accurate preparation and timely filing of
    quarterly and year-end tax returns, as well as the electronic
    transfer of funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies
    (federal, state, and local). In connection with these services,
    we electronically collect payroll taxes from clients’ bank
    accounts, typically on payday, prepare and file the applicable
    tax returns, and remit taxes to the applicable tax or regulatory
    agencies on the respective due dates. These taxes are typically
    paid between one and 30 days after receipt of collections
    from clients, with some items extending to 90 days. We
    handle regulatory correspondence, amendments, and penalty and
    interest disputes, and we are subject to cash penalties imposed
    by tax or regulatory agencies for late filings and late or under
    payment of taxes.


 


    Employee payment services:  As of
    May 31, 2011, 79% of our clients utilized our employee
    payment services, which provide the employer the option of
    paying their employees by direct deposit, payroll debit card, a
    check drawn on a Paychex account
    (Readychex®),

    or a check drawn on the employer’s account and
    electronically signed by us. For the first three methods, we
    electronically collect net payroll from the clients’ bank
    accounts, typically one business day before payday, and provide
    payment to the employees on payday. Our flexible payment





    
    3



Table of Contents





    options provide a cost-effective solution that offers the
    benefit of convenient, one-step payroll account reconciliation
    for employers.


 


    Regulatory compliance services:  We
    offer new-hire reporting services, which enable clients to
    comply with federal and state requirements to report information
    on newly hired employees. This information aids the government
    in enforcing child support orders and minimizes fraudulent
    unemployment and workers’ compensation insurance claims.
    Our garnishment processing service provides deductions from
    employees’ pay, forwards payments to third-party agencies,
    including those that require electronic payments, and tracks the
    obligations to fulfillment. These services enable employers to
    comply with legal requirements and reduce the risk of penalties.


 



    Human
    Resource Services


 


    Paychex HR Solutions:  We offer
    comprehensive human resource outsourcing solutions that provide
    businesses a full-service approach to the outsourcing of
    employer and employee administrative needs. Our Paychex HR
    Solutions offering is available as an administrative services
    organization (“ASO”), previously known as Paychex
    Premier®

    Human Resources, and a professional employer organization
    (“PEO”). Both options offer businesses a combined
    package of services that includes payroll, employer compliance,
    human resource and employee benefits administration, risk
    management outsourcing, and the
    on-site
    availability of a professionally trained human resource
    representative. These comprehensive bundles of services are
    designed to make it easier for businesses to manage their
    payroll and related benefit costs while providing a benefits
    package equal to that of larger companies. Our PEO differs from
    the ASO in that we serve as a co-employer of the clients’
    employees, assume the risks and rewards of workers’
    compensation insurance, and provide health care coverage to PEO
    client employees. PEO services continue to be sold through our
    registered and licensed subsidiary, Paychex Business Solutions,
    Inc. The integration of the sales and service models of the ASO
    and PEO under Paychex HR Solutions has reduced redundancies and
    created more flexible options for business owners to find the
    solution that best meets their needs. In fiscal 2011, we
    introduced Paychex HR Essentials, which is an ASO product that
    provides support to our clients over the phone or online to help
    manage employee-related topics. As of May 31, 2011, Paychex
    HR Solutions were utilized by 21,000 clients with approximately
    567,000 client employees.


 


    Retirement services administration:  Our
    retirement services product line offers a variety of options to
    clients, including 401(k) plans, 401(k) SIMPLE, SIMPLE IRA,
    401(k) plans with safe harbor provisions, profit sharing, and
    money purchase plans. These services provide plan
    implementation, ongoing compliance with government regulations,
    employee and employer reporting, participant and employer online
    access, electronic funds transfer, and other administrative
    services. Auto enrollment is an optional plan feature allowing
    employers to automatically enroll employees in their
    company’s 401(k) plan and increase overall plan
    participation. Clients have the ability to choose from a group
    of pre-defined fund selections or to customize their investment
    options within their plan. Selling efforts for these services
    are focused primarily on our existing payroll client base, as
    the processed payroll information allows for data integration
    necessary to provide these services efficiently. We are one of
    the largest 401(k) recordkeepers for small businesses in the
    U.S. We earn an average fee of slightly less than
    twenty-five basis points from the external fund managers based
    on the total asset value of client employee 401(k) funds. In May
    2011, we acquired ePlan Services, Inc., a provider of
    recordkeeping and administrative solutions to the defined
    contribution marketplace. This acquisition allows us to expand
    our retirement services to financial advisers. As of
    May 31, 2011, retirement services were utilized by
    approximately 57,000 clients and the asset value of client
    employee 401(k) funds externally managed totaled approximately
    $15.3 billion.


 


    Insurance services:  Our licensed
    insurance agency, Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc. (“Paychex
    Insurance Agency”), provides insurance through a variety of
    carriers. Insurance offerings include property and casualty
    coverage such as workers’ compensation; business-owner
    policies; commercial auto; and health and benefits coverage
    including health, dental, vision, and life. Our insurance
    services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find
    plans with the features and affordability to meet the
    client’s needs. With access to numerous top national and
    regional carriers, our professional insurance agents enjoy a
    wide selection of plans from which to best match the insurance
    needs of small business. Clients also have the option to
    integrate with Paychex payroll processing for easy, accurate
    plan administration. Paychex Insurance Agency has a website,
    www.paychexinsurance.com, with information and
    interactive tools to help educate visitors on insurance and aid
    in making business insurance decisions. As of May 31, 2011,
    approximately 100,000 clients have appointed Paychex Insurance
    Agency as their agent for servicing their business insurance
    needs.




    
    4



Table of Contents





    eServices:  We offer online human
    resource administration software products for employee benefits
    management and administration and time and attendance solutions.
    Paychex HR Online offers powerful tools for managing employee
    benefits, personnel information, and human resource compliance
    and reporting. Time and Labor Online helps minimize the time
    spent compiling time sheet information. It allows the employer
    to handle multiple payroll scenarios and results in improved
    productivity, accuracy, and reliability in the payroll process.


 


    Other human resource services and
    products:  We offer the outsourcing of plan
    administration under section 125 of the Internal Revenue
    Code, allowing employees to use pre-tax dollars to pay for
    certain health insurance benefits and health and dependent care
    expenses not covered by insurance. All required implementation,
    administration, compliance, claims processing and reimbursement,
    and coverage tests are provided with these services. We offer
    state unemployment insurance services, which provide clients
    with prompt processing for all claims, appeals, determinations,
    change statements, and requests for separation documents. Other
    Human Resource Services products include employee handbooks,
    management manuals, and personnel and required regulatory forms.
    These products are designed to simplify clients’ office
    processes and enhance their employee benefits programs.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    We market our services primarily through our direct sales force
    based in the metropolitan markets we serve, with sales
    representatives specializing within our portfolio of services.
    For the year ending May 31, 2012 (“fiscal 2012”),
    our sales force is expected to total approximately 2,400
    representatives. Our sales representatives are also supported by
    marketing, advertising, public relations, trade shows, and
    telemarketing programs. We have grown and expect to continue to
    grow our direct sales force. In recent years, we have increased
    our emphasis on the selling of ancillary services and products
    to both new clients and our existing client base.


 


    In addition to our direct selling and marketing efforts, we
    utilize relationships with existing clients, certified public
    accountants (“CPAs”), and banks for new client
    referrals. More than 60% of our new core payroll clients
    (excluding acquisitions) come from these referral sources. To
    further enhance our strong relationship with CPAs, we have
    partnered with the American Institute of Certified Public
    Accountants (“AICPA”) as the preferred payroll
    provider for its AICPA Business Solutions Partner Program since
    2003. This long-standing strategic alliance has been extended to
    September 2016.


 


    Our website at www.paychex.com, which includes online
    payroll sales presentations and service and product information,
    is a cost-efficient tool that serves as a source of leads and
    new sales while complementing the efforts of our direct sales
    force. This online tool allows us to market to clients in more
    geographically remote areas. In addition, our insurance services
    website at www.paychexinsurance.com provides information
    to help small businesses navigate the insurance industry, and
    generates leads by allowing interested parties to get in contact
    with one of our professional insurance agents.


 


    In addition, Advantage Payroll Services Inc.
    (“Advantage”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Paychex,
    Inc., has license agreements with independently owned associate
    offices (“Associates”), which are responsible for
    selling and marketing Advantage payroll services and performing
    certain operational functions, while Paychex and Advantage
    provide all centralized back-office payroll processing and
    payroll tax administration services. The marketing and selling
    by the Associates is conducted under their own logos.


 



    Markets
    and Competition


 


    Industry data indicates there are approximately ten million
    employers in the geographic markets that we currently serve
    within the U.S. Of those employers, approximately 99% have
    fewer than 100 employees and are our primary customers and
    target market. We remain focused on servicing small- to
    medium-sized businesses based upon the growth potential that we
    believe exists in this market segment.


 


    We serve a diverse base of small- to medium-sized clients
    operating in a broad range of industries located throughout the
    U.S. As of May 31, 2011, we serviced approximately
    564,000 clients. We utilize service agreements and arrangements
    with clients that are generally terminable by the client at any
    time or upon relatively short notice. For fiscal 2011, client
    retention was approximately 79% of our beginning client base, up
    two percentage points from the fiscal year ended May 31,
    2010 (“fiscal 2010”). Clients lost in fiscal 2011
    decreased 9% compared to fiscal





    
    5



Table of Contents





    2010, largely due to fewer clients going out of business or
    having no employees. No single client has a material impact on
    total service revenue or results of operations.


 


    The composition of the U.S. market and the client base we
    serve by number of employees is as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Business size
    


 


    Estimated
    


 


    Paychex, Inc. distribution
    




    (Number of employees)


 


    market
    distribution(1)



 


    of client base



 






    1-4



 

 


    80%

 


 

 


    42%

 





    5-19



 

 


    15%

 


 

 


    40%

 





    20-49



 

 


    3%

 


 

 


    12%

 





    50-99



 

 


    1%

 


 

 


    4%

 





    100+



 

 


    1%

 


 

 


    2%

 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Based on currently available market data from Dun &
    Bradstreet.




 


    The market for payroll processing and human resource services is
    highly competitive and fragmented. Our primary national
    competitor,
    ADP®

    (“Automatic Data Processing, Inc.”), is the largest
    U.S. third-party provider of payroll processing and human
    resource services in terms of revenue. We compete with other
    national, regional, local, and online service providers, all of
    which we believe have significantly smaller client bases than us.


 


    In addition to traditional payroll processing and human resource
    service providers, we compete with in-house payroll and human
    resource systems and departments. Payroll and human resource
    systems and software are sold by many vendors. Our Human
    Resource Services also compete with a variety of providers of
    human resource services, such as retirement services companies,
    insurance companies, and human resources and benefits consulting
    firms.


 


    Competition in the payroll processing and human resource
    services industry is primarily based on service responsiveness,
    product quality and reputation, breadth of service and product
    offering, and price. We believe we are competitive in each of
    these areas.


 



    Software
    Maintenance and Development


 


    The ever-changing mandates of federal, state, and local tax and
    regulatory agencies require us to regularly update the
    proprietary software we utilize to provide payroll and human
    resource services to our clients. We are continually engaged in
    developing enhancements to and the maintenance of our various
    software platforms to meet the changing requirements of our
    clients and the marketplace.


 


    In fiscal 2010, we completed implementation of an enhanced
    platform for our core processing capability, which allows us to
    leverage efficiencies in our processes and continue to provide
    excellent customer service. Over the next few years, we will
    expand this platform to additional service offerings.


 



    Employees


 


    As of May 31, 2011, we employed approximately
    12,400 people. None of our employees were covered by
    collective bargaining agreements.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    We own or license and use a number of trademarks, trade names,
    copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, computer programs and
    software, and other intellectual property rights. Taken as a
    whole, our intellectual property rights are material to the
    conduct of our business. Where it is determined to be
    appropriate, we take measures to protect our intellectual
    property rights, including, but not limited to,
    confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements or policies with
    employees, vendors, and others; license agreements with
    licensees and licensors of intellectual property; and
    registration of certain trademarks. We believe that the
    “Paychex” name, trademark, and logo are of material
    importance to us.




    
    6



Table of Contents






    Seasonality


 


    There is no significant seasonality to our business. However,
    during our third fiscal quarter, which ends in February, the
    number of new payroll clients, new retirement services clients,
    and new Paychex HR Solutions worksite employees tends to be
    higher than during the rest of the fiscal year, primarily
    because a majority of new clients begin using our services in
    the beginning of a calendar year. In addition, calendar year-end
    transaction processing and client funds activity are
    traditionally higher during our third fiscal quarter due to
    clients paying year-end bonuses and requesting additional
    year-end services. Historically, as a result of these factors,
    our total revenue has been slightly higher in our third fiscal
    quarter, with greater sales commission expenses also reported in
    this quarter.


 



    Other


 


    We are subject to the informational requirements of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange
    Act”). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy
    statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports may
    be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding
    the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by
    calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a
    website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy
    statements, and other information.


 


    Information about our services and products, stockholder
    information, press releases, and filings with the SEC can be
    found on our website at www.paychex.com. Our
    Form 10-Ks,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and other SEC filings, and any amendments to such reports and
    filings, are made available, free of charge, on the Investor
    Relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practical
    after such material is filed with, or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act to, the SEC. Also,
    copies of our Annual Report to Stockholders and Proxy Statement,
    to be issued in connection with our 2011 Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders, will be made available, free of charge, upon
    written request submitted to Paychex, Inc.,
    c/o Corporate
    Secretary, 911 Panorama Trail South, Rochester, New York
    14625-2396.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Our future results of operations are subject to a number of
    risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could
    cause actual results to differ materially from historical and
    current results and from our projections. Important factors
    known to us that could cause such differences include, but are
    not limited to, those discussed below and those contained in the
    “Safe Harbor” statement at the beginning of
    Part I of this
    Form 10-K.


 


    Our services may be adversely impacted by changes in
    government regulations and policies:  Many of
    our services, particularly payroll tax administration services
    and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed
    according to government regulations that continually change.
    Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of
    benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide
    employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and
    employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or
    eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially
    decrease our revenue. Added requirements could also increase our
    cost of doing business. Failure to educate and assist our
    clients regarding new or revised legislation that impacts them
    could have an adverse impact on our reputation. Failure by us to
    modify our services in a timely fashion in response to
    regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our
    business and results of operations.


 


    Our interest earned on funds held for clients may be
    impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the
    amount of tax withheld or timing of
    remittance:  We receive interest income from
    investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to
    applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. A
    change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to
    be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable
    tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest
    income.


 


    We may not be able to keep pace with changes in
    technology:  To maintain our growth strategy,
    we must adapt and respond to technological advances and
    technological requirements of our clients. Our future success
    will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase
    the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our
    systems that meet our clients’ requirements. We continue to
    make significant investments related to the





    
    7



Table of Contents





    development of new technology. If our systems become outdated,
    we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry.
    There can be no assurance that our efforts to update and
    integrate systems will be successful. If we do not integrate and
    update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in
    technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be
    a material adverse effect to our business and results of
    operations.


 


    Our business and reputation may be affected by our ability
    to keep clients’ information
    confidential:  Our business involves the use
    of significant amounts of private and confidential client
    information including employees’ identification numbers,
    bank accounts, and retirement account information. This
    information is critical to the accurate and timely provision of
    services to our clients, and certain information may be
    transmitted via the Internet. There is no guarantee that our
    systems and processes are adequate to protect against all
    security breaches. If our systems are disrupted or fail for any
    reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized
    persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss,
    harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. Such
    events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation,
    regulation investigation and penalties, loss of clients’
    business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there
    could be a material adverse effect on our business and results
    of operations.


 


    We may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party
    service providers to perform their
    functions:  As part of providing services to
    clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers.
    These service providers include, but are not limited to,
    couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to
    electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees.
    Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver
    their services in a timely manner could result in material
    interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and
    result in significant penalties or liabilities to us.


 


    We may be exposed to additional risks related to our
    co-employment relationship within our PEO
    business:  Many federal and state laws that
    apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically
    address the obligations and responsibilities of the
    “co-employment” relationship. As a result, there is a
    possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations
    of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or
    omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our
    agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or
    violations. Although our agreements with the clients provide
    that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable
    to its own or its employees’ conduct, we may not be able to
    effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. In
    addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our
    employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the
    “employer” under any applicable state or federal laws.


 


    We may be adversely impacted by volatility in the
    financial and economic environment:  During
    periods of weak economic conditions, employment levels tend to
    decrease and interest rates may become more volatile. These
    conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction
    volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of
    business. Current or potential clients may decide to reduce
    their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. In
    addition, new business starts may be affected by an inability to
    obtain credit. The interest we earn on funds held for clients
    may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to
    invest and lower interest rates. In addition, during periods of
    volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments
    may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to
    invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client
    funds. Constriction in the credit markets may impact the
    availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest
    credit ratings. We historically have not borrowed against
    available credit arrangements to meet liquidity needs. However,
    should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of
    large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit
    our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain
    them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. If all of
    these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in
    effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations.


 


    In the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity
    plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and
    adversely interrupt operations:  Our
    operations are dependent on our ability to protect our
    infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural
    disaster, severe weather including events resulting from climate
    change, unauthorized security breach, power loss,
    telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events
    that could have a significant disruptive effect on our
    operations. We have a business continuity plan in place in the
    event of system failure due to any of these events. Our business
    continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of
    severe weather, including floods and snowstorms, and has been
    successful. However, these past successes are not





    
    8



Table of Contents





    an indicator of success in the future. If the business
    continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario,
    we could potentially lose client data or experience material
    adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services
    to our clients.


 


    We may have an adverse outcome of legal matters, which
    could harm our business:  We are subject to
    various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course
    of business. These include disputes or potential disputes
    related to breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty,
    employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters. Refer
    to Item 3 of this
    Form 10-K
    for additional disclosure regarding legal proceedings. Legal
    matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists
    the possibility that their ultimate resolution could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial position and results of
    operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded.


 


    Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market
    risk:  Refer to Item 7A of this
    Form 10-K
    for a discussion on Market Risk Factors.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B