.Risk FactorsOur future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results, and from our projections. The risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our business and are important to understanding our business. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect, possibly to a material extent, our business, cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. In addition, you should refer to the description of forward-looking statements at the beginning of Part I of this Form 10-K.Our services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies:    Many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continually change. Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. Added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. Failure to educate and assist our clients regarding new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse impact on our reputation. Failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our clients and our business could be adversely impacted by health care reform:    The Act was enacted in March 2010 and entails sweeping health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 through 2018. Many provisions of the Act require the issuance of additional guidance from the U.S. Departments of Labor and Health & Human Services, the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), and the States.8The complexity of federal and state regulations facing employers has continued to increase, over time, including the enactment of the Act. As a service provider, we have a responsibility to our clients to help them understand their increased obligations under such regulations. Failure to provide clients with appropriate information or solutions to effectively manage their health care benefits and related costs could have an adverse impact on our reputation and a negative impact on our client base.  There is no guarantee that solutions we have developed to help clients navigate health care legislation will be readily accepted by clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our insurance services business.  Insurance services revenue is at risk for lower commission revenue from underwriters if clients move away from traditional insurance policies utilized in the past or as a result of pressure on commission rates,  driven by restrictions on insurers as to use of premiums.  Refer to the discussion on the next page regarding changes in health insurance and workers' compensation insurance rates and underlying claims trends for discussion of health care reform as it impacts our PEO.We may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our products and services:    To maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients’ requirements. We continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. If our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. There can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. If we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations.Our business and reputation may be affected by security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure, which could compromise Company and personal customer information:    We rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to support a variety of business processes.  If we experience a problem with the functioning of key systems or a security breach of our systems, the resulting disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also collect, use, and retain large amounts of personal information about our clients and their employees that is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients.  This information includes bank account numbers, credit card numbers, tax return information, social security numbers, health care information, retirement account information, payroll information, and Paychex system passwords.  In addition, we also collect and maintain personal information on our employees in the ordinary course of our business.  As many of our services are web-based and mobile-application-based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers has been increasing.  Vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. We have security systems and information technology infrastructure in place designed to detect and protect against unauthorized access to such information.  However, there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. Third parties, including vendors that provide services for our operations, could also be a source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. If our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, both the Company and our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by disruptions or security breaches in the future. Such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulatory investigation and penalties, loss of clients’ business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.In the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations:    Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, severe weather including events resulting from climate change, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. We have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. Our business continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of severe weather, including hurricanes, floods, and snowstorms, and has been successful. However, these past successes are not an indicator of success in the future. If the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients.We may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions:    As part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. These service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us.9We may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our PEO business:    Many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the “co-employment” relationship. As a result, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. Although our agreements with clients provide that they will indemnify us for any liability attributable to their own or their employees’ conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. In addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the “employer” under any applicable state or federal laws.We may be adversely impacted by changes in health insurance and workers’ compensation rates and underlying claims trends:    Within our PEO business, we maintain health and workers’ compensation insurance covering worksite employees. The insurance costs are impacted by claims experience and are a significant portion of our PEO costs. If we experience a sudden or unexpected increase in claims activity, our costs could increase. In addition, in the event of expiration or cancellation of existing contracts, we may not be able to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms. Also, as a co-employer in the PEO, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities associated with health care reform, which may result in increased costs.  Increases in costs not incorporated into service fees timely or fully, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Incorporating cost increases into service fees could also impact our ability to attract and retain clients.Our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance:    We receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. A change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies could adversely impact this interest income.We may be adversely impacted by volatility in the financial and economic environment:    During periods of weak economic conditions, employment levels tend to decrease and interest rates may become more volatile. These conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. Current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. In addition, new business formation may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. The interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. In addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. Constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. Historically, we have rarely borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet liquidity needs. However, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. If all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk:    Refer to Item 7A of this Form 10-K for a discussion on Market Risk Factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Item 1B