ITEM 1A. – RISK
FACTORS

In
addition to other information and risk disclosures contained in this Form 10-K,
the risk factors discussed in this section should be considered in evaluating
our business. We work to manage and mitigate these risks proactively, including
through our use of an enterprise risk management program. In our management of
these risks, we also evaluate the potential for additional opportunities to
mitigate these risks. Nevertheless, the following risks, some of which may be
beyond our control, could materially impact our brand and reputation or results
of operations or could cause future results to differ materially from our
current expectations:

Our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected by
changes in postal regulations and processes.

The
majority of our revenue is directly or indirectly subject to regulation and
oversight by postal authorities worldwide. We depend on a healthy postal sector
in the geographic markets where we do business, which could be influenced
positively or negatively by legislative or regulatory changes in those
countries. Our profitability and revenue in a particular country could be
affected by adverse changes in postal regulations, the business processes and
practices of individual posts, the decision of a post to enter into particular
markets in direct competition with us, and the impact of any of these changes
on postal competitors that do not use our products or services. These changes
could affect product specifications, service offerings, customer behavior and
the overall mailing industry.

An accelerated decline in the use of physical mail could adversely
affect our business.

Changes
in our customers’ communication behavior, including changes in communications
technologies, could adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Accelerated
decline in physical mail could also result from government actions such as
executive orders, legislation or regulations that mandate electronic
substitution, prohibit certain types of mailings, increase the difficulty of
using information or materials in the mail, or impose higher taxes or fees on
mailing or postal services. While we have introduced various product and
service offerings as alternatives to physical mail, we face competition from
existing and emerging products and services that offer alternative means of
communication, such as email and electronic document transmission technologies.
An accelerated increase in the acceptance of electronic delivery technologies
or other displacement of physical mail could adversely affect our business.

Reduced confidence in the mail system could impact our mail
volume.

Unexpected events such as the transmission of biological or chemical
agents, or acts of terrorism could have a negative effect on customer
confidence in a postal system and as a result adversely impact mail volume. An
unexpected and significant interruption in the use of the mail could adversely
affect our business.

We depend on third-party suppliers and our business could be
adversely affected if we fail to manage suppliers effectively.

We
depend on third-party suppliers for a variety of services, components, supplies
and a portion of our product manufacturing. In certain instances, we rely on
single sourced or limited sourced suppliers around the world because the
relationship is advantageous due to quality, price, or there are no alternative
sources. If production or service was interrupted and we were not able to find
alternate suppliers, we could experience disruptions in manufacturing and
operations including product shortages, higher freight costs, and
re-engineering costs. This could result in our inability to meet customer
demand, damage our reputation and customer relationships and adversely affect
our business.

5



Market
deteriorations and credit downgrades could adversely affect our cost of funds
and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital
markets. 

We
provide financing services to our customers for equipment, postage, and
supplies. Our ability to provide these services is largely dependent upon our
continued access to the U.S. capital markets. An additional source of liquidity
for the company consists of deposits held in our wholly-owned industrial loan
corporation, Pitney Bowes Bank (the Bank). A significant credit ratings
downgrade, material capital market disruptions, significant withdrawals by
depositors at the Bank, or adverse changes to our industrial loan charter could
impact our ability to maintain adequate liquidity, and impact our ability to
provide competitive offerings to our customers. 

A portion of our total borrowings has been issued in the commercial
paper markets. Although we continue to have unencumbered access to the
commercial paper markets, there can be no assurance that such markets will
continue to be a reliable source of short-term financing for us. If market
conditions deteriorate, there may be no assurance that other funding sources
would be available or sufficient.

We may not realize anticipated benefits from
our Strategic Transformation.

In
2009, we announced that we were embarking on an initiative called Strategic
Transformation, a program focusing on how we improve the way we go to market
and how we interact with our customers while also reducing the company’s cost
structure to make it more flexible. The initiatives are aimed at optimizing our
cost structure and efficiency through new system implementation, outsourcing
programs, and headcount reduction. If our new system implementation or
outsourcing programs are not successful, the savings from Strategic
Transformation may not be sustainable.

Failure to comply with privacy laws and other related regulations
could subject us to significant liability. 

Several
of our services and financing businesses use, process and store customer
information that could include confidential, personal or financial information.
We also provide third party benefits administrators with access to our
employees’ personal information. Privacy laws and similar regulations in many
jurisdictions where we do business, as well as contractual provisions, require
that we and our benefits administrators take significant steps to safeguard
this information. Failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or
contract provisions could adversely affect our reputation and business and
subject us to significant liability.

The failure of our information technology systems could adversely
impact our operating results.

Our
portfolio of product, service and financing solutions increases our dependence
on information technologies. We maintain a secure system to collect revenue for
certain postal services, which is critical to enable both our systems and the
postal systems to run reliably. The continuous and uninterrupted performance of
our systems is critical to our ability to support and service our customers and
to support postal services. Although we maintain back-up systems, these systems
could be damaged by acts of nature, power loss, telecommunications failures,
computer viruses, vandalism and other unexpected events. If our systems were
disrupted, we could be prevented from fulfilling orders and servicing customers
and postal services, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and
business.

Our inability to obtain and protect our intellectual
property and defend against claims of infringement by others may negatively
impact our operating results. 

We
rely on copyright, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws in
the United States and similar laws in other countries to establish and protect
proprietary rights that are important to our business. If we fail to enforce
our intellectual property rights, our business may suffer. We, or our
suppliers, may be subject to third-party claims of infringement on intellectual
property rights. These claims, if successful, may require us to redesign
affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay damage
awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from
marketing or selling certain of our products.


If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, our
operating results, brand name and reputation could suffer.

Many of our contracts are with governmental entities. Government
contracts are subject to extensive and complex government procurement laws and
regulations, along with regular audits of contract pricing and our business
practices by government agencies. If we are found to have violated some
provisions of the government contracts, we could be required to provide a
refund, pay significant damages, or be subject to contract cancellation, civil
or criminal penalties, fines, or debarment from doing business with the government.
Any of these events could not only affect us financially but also adversely
affect our brand and reputation.

6



ITEM 1B