ITEM 1A. – RISK FACTORS

In addition to other
information and risk disclosures contained in this Form 10-K, the risk factors
discussed in this section should be considered in evaluating our business. We
work to manage and mitigate these risks proactively, including through our use
of an enterprise risk management program. In our management of these risks, we
also evaluate the potential for additional opportunities to mitigate these
risks. Nevertheless, the following risks, some of which may be beyond our
control, could materially impact our brand and reputation or results of
operations or could cause future results to differ materially from our current
expectations:

Postal regulations and processes

The majority of our
revenue is directly or indirectly subject to regulation and oversight by the
USPS and foreign postal authorities. We also depend on a healthy postal sector
in the geographic markets where we do business, which could be influenced
positively or negatively by legislative or regulatory changes in the United
States, another country or in the European Union. Our profitability and revenue
in a particular country could be affected by adverse changes in postal regulations,
the business processes and practices of individual posts, the decision of a
post to enter into particular markets in direct competition with us, and the
impact of any of these changes on postal competitors that do not use our
products or services. These changes could affect product specifications,
service offerings, customer behavior and the overall mailing industry. 

Accelerated decline in use of physical mail

Changes in our customers’
communication behavior, including changes in communications technologies, could
adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Accelerated decline in physical
mail could also result from government actions such as executive orders,
legislation or regulations that either mandate electronic substitution,
prohibit certain types of mailings, increase the difficulty of using
information or materials in the mail, or impose higher taxes or fees on mailing
or postal services. While we have introduced various product and service
offerings as alternatives to physical mail, we face competition from existing
and emerging products and services that offer alternative means of
communication, such as email and electronic document transmission technologies.
An accelerated increase in the acceptance of electronic delivery technologies
or other displacement of physical mail could adversely affect our business. 

Reduced confidence in the mail system

Unexpected events such as
the transmission of biological or chemical agents, or acts of terrorism could
have a negative effect on customer confidence in a postal system and as a
result adversely impact mail volume. An unexpected and significant interruption
in the use of the mail could have an adverse effect on our business.

5



Dependence on third-party suppliers

We depend on third-party
suppliers for a variety of services, components, supplies and a portion of our
product manufacturing. In certain instances, we rely on single sourced or
limited sourced suppliers around the world because the relationship is
advantageous due to quality or price or there are no alternative sources. If
production or service was interrupted and we were not able to find alternate
suppliers, we could experience disruptions in manufacturing and operations
including product shortages, an increase in freight costs, and re-engineering
costs. This could result in our inability to meet customer demand, damage our
reputation and customer relationships and adversely affect our business.

Access to additional liquidity and current market volatility

We provide financing
services to our customers for equipment, postage, and supplies. Our ability to
provide these services is largely dependent upon our continued access to the
U.S. capital markets. An additional source of liquidity for the company
consists of deposits held in our wholly-owned industrial loan corporation,
Pitney Bowes Bank (“Bank”). A significant credit ratings downgrade, material
capital market disruptions, significant withdrawals by depositors at the Bank,
or adverse changes to our industrial loan charter could impact our ability to
maintain adequate liquidity, and impact our ability to provide competitive
offerings to our customers. 

The capital and credit
markets have experienced continued volatility and disruption. In some cases,
the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity
for certain issuers. A portion of Pitney Bowes’ total borrowings has been
issued in the commercial paper markets. While Pitney Bowes has continued to
have unencumbered access to the commercial paper markets, there can be no
assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of short-term
financing for us. If market conditions deteriorate, there may be no assurance
that other funding sources would be available or sufficient.

Privacy laws and other related regulations

Several of our services
and financing businesses use, process and store customer information that could
include confidential, personal or financial information. We also provide third
party benefits administrators with access to our employees’ personal
information. Privacy laws and similar regulations in many jurisdictions where
we do business, as well as contractual provisions, require that we and our
benefits administrators take significant steps to safeguard this information.
Failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or contract provisions
could adversely affect our reputation and business and subject us to
significant liability.

Dependence on information systems

Our portfolio of product,
service and financing solutions increases our dependence on information
technologies. We maintain a secure system to collect revenue for certain postal
services, which is critical to enable both our systems and the postal systems
to run reliably. The continuous and uninterrupted performance of our systems is
critical to our ability to support and service our customers and to support
postal services. Although we maintain back-up systems, these systems could be
damaged by acts of nature, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer
viruses, vandalism and other unexpected events. If our systems were disrupted,
we could be prevented from fulfilling orders and servicing customers and postal
services, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business.

Intellectual property infringement

We rely on copyright,
trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws in the United States
and similar laws in other countries to establish and protect proprietary rights
that are important to our business. If we fail to enforce our intellectual
property rights, our business may suffer. We, or our suppliers, may be subject
to third-party claims of infringement on intellectual property rights. These
claims, if successful, may require us to redesign affected products, enter into
costly settlement or license agreements, pay damage awards, or face a temporary
or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our
products. 

Litigation and regulation

Our results may be
affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that
cannot be predicted with certainty. As a large multi-national corporation that
does business globally, subsequent developments in legal proceedings, including
private civil litigations or proceedings brought by governmental entities, or
changes in laws or regulations or their interpretation or administration,
including developments in antitrust law or regulation, employment law or
regulation, financial regulation, tax law and regulation, class actions, or
intellectual property litigations, could result in an adverse effect on our
results of operations. For a description of current legal proceedings and
regulatory matters, see “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this Form 10-K.

6



Government contracts

Many of our contracts are
with governmental entities. Government contracts are subject to extensive and
complex government procurement laws and regulations, along with regular audits
of contract pricing and our business practices by government agencies. If we
are found to have violated some provisions of the government contracts, we
could be required to provide a refund, pay significant damages, or be subject
to contract cancellation, civil or criminal penalties, fines, or debarment from
doing business with the government. Any of these events could not only affect
us financially but also adversely affect our brand and reputation.

ITEM 1B