ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORS

Risk Factors

In addition to other information and risk disclosures
contained in this Form 10-K, the risk factors discussed in this section should be considered in evaluating our business. We work to manage and mitigate
these risks proactively, including through our use of an enterprise risk management program. In our management of these risks, we also evaluate the
potential for additional opportunities that may be exploitable in mitigating against these risks. Nevertheless, the following risks, some of which may
be beyond our control, could materially impact our results of operations or cause future results to materially differ from our current
expectations:

Postal regulations and processes

The majority of our revenue is directly or indirectly
subject to regulation and oversight by the USPS and foreign postal authorities. Our profitability and revenue in a particular country could be affected
as a result of adverse changes in postal regulations, the business processes and practices of individual posts, the decision of a post to enter into
particular markets in direct competition with us, and the impact of any of these changes on postal competitors that do not use our products or
services. These changes could affect product specifications, service offerings, customer behavior and the overall mailing industry. We depend on a
healthy postal sector in the geographic markets where we do business, which can be influenced positively or negatively by legislative or regulatory
changes in the United States, another country or in the European Union.

Accelerated decline in use of physical
mail

Changes in our customers’ communication behavior,
including changes in communications technologies, could adversely impact our revenue and profitability. While we have introduced various product and
service offerings as alternatives to physical mail, we face competition from existing and emerging products and services that offer alternative means
of communication, such as email and electronic document transmission technologies. An accelerated increase in the acceptance of electronic delivery
technologies or displacement of physical mail could adversely affect our core market.



5








Dependence on third-party suppliers

We depend on third-party suppliers for a variety of
services, components, supplies and a portion of our product manufacturing. In certain instances, we rely on single sourced or limited sourced suppliers
around the world because there are no alternative sources or the relationship is advantageous due to quality or price. If production or service was
interrupted and we were not able to find alternate suppliers, we could experience disruptions in manufacturing and operations including product
shortages, an increase in freight costs, and re-engineering costs. This could result in our inability to meet customer demand, damage customer
relationships and adversely affect our business, revenue and profitability.

Privacy laws and other related
regulations

Several of our services and financing businesses use,
process and store customer information that could include confidential, personal or financial information. Privacy laws and similar regulations in many
jurisdictions where we do business, as well as contractual provisions, require that we take significant steps to safeguard this information. Failure to
comply with any of these laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.

Dependence on information systems

Our portfolio of product, service and financing
solutions increases our dependence on key systems. We maintain a secure system to collect revenues for certain postal services, which is critical to
enable both our systems and the postal systems to run reliably. The continuous and uninterrupted performance of our systems is critical to our ability
to support and service our customers and to support postal services. While we do maintain back-up systems, these systems could be damaged by acts of
nature, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, vandalism and other unexpected events. If our systems were disrupted, we could be
prevented from fulfilling orders and servicing customers and postal services, which could have an adverse affect on our results of
operations.

Intellectual property infringement

We rely on copyright, trade secret, patent and other
intellectual property laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries to establish and protect proprietary rights that are important for
our business. If we fail to enforce our intellectual property rights, our business may suffer. We may be subject to third-party claims that we are
infringing on their intellectual property rights. These claims, if successful, may require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly
settlement or license agreements, pay damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of
our products.

Litigation and regulation

Our results may be affected by the outcome of legal
proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. As a large multi-national corporation that does business throughout all of
the United States and in many other countries, subsequent developments in legal proceedings, or changes in laws or regulations or their interpretation
or administration, including developments in antitrust law or regulation, class actions, or intellectual property litigations, could result in an
adverse effect on our results of operations. For a description of current legal proceedings and regulatory matters, see Legal Proceedings in Item 3 and
Legal and Regulatory Matters in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in Item 7 of this Form
10-K.

Government contracts

Many of our contracts are with governmental entities.
Government contracts are subject to extensive and complex government procurement laws and regulations, along with regular audits of contract pricing
and our business practices by government agencies. If we are found to have violated some provisions of the government contracts, we could be required
to provide a refund, or we could be subject to contract cancellation, civil or criminal penalties, fines, or debarment from doing business with the
government. Any of these events could not only affect us financially but also affect our brand and reputation.

Reduced confidence in the mail
system

Unexpected events such as the transmission of biological or
chemical agents, or acts of terrorism could have a negative effect on customer confidence in a postal system and as a result adversely impact mail
volume. An unexpected and significant interruption in the use of the mail could have an adverse affect on our results of operations.



6








ITEM 1B