ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORSIn addition to the disclosures and other information discussed in this report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. We manage and mitigate these risks on a proactive basis, including through the use of an enterprise risk management program. Nevertheless, the following risk factors, some of which may be beyond our control, could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, brand and reputation, and may cause future results to be materially different than our current expectations. These risk factors are not intended to be all inclusive.We are subject to postal regulations and processes, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability.The majority of our revenue is directly or indirectly subject to regulation and oversight by postal authorities worldwide. We depend on a healthy postal sector in the geographic markets where we do business, which could be influenced positively or negatively by legislative or regulatory changes in those countries. Our profitability and revenue in a particular country could be affected by adverse changes in postal regulations, the business processes and practices of individual posts, the decision of a post to enter into particular markets in direct competition with us and the impact of any of these changes on postal competitors that do not use our products or services. These changes could affect product specifications, service offerings, client behavior and the overall mailing industry.  Further, if we are found to have violated postal regulations, we could be subject to fines or civil or criminal penalties.  If we are not successful at addressing the challenges that face our mailing business as we transition to more digital offerings and other services, our results of operations and profitability could be adversely impacted. The volume of physical mail delivered via traditional postal services has been declining and is projected to continue to decline through the end of the decade. The historical decline in mail volumes has had an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability and is expected to continue to influence our revenue and profitability in the future. We have embarked upon a set of new strategies to stabilize our mailing business by providing our clients broader access to products and services through online and direct sales channels, the introduction of new products and services and the transition of our current products and services to more digital offerings, while implementing cost efficiencies in our sales support processes. The margins associated with these digital offerings are typically lower than our traditional mailing business and there is no guarantee that these offerings will be widely accepted in the marketplace. Further, if they are accepted, they will face competition from existing and emerging alternative products and services. Even if the above strategies are successful at stabilizing our mailing business, an accelerated or sudden decline in physical mail volumes could have an adverse effect on our mailing business.  An accelerated or sudden decline could result from, among other things, changes in our clients' communication behavior, changes in communications technologies or legislation or regulations that mandate electronic substitution, prohibit certain types of mailings, increase the difficulty of using information or materials in the mail, or impose higher taxes or fees on mailing or postal services.  If we are not successful at implementing the strategies to stabilize our mailing business, or if physical mail volumes were to experience an accelerated or sudden decline, our client base, market share and financial results could be negatively impacted.  We may not be successful in the development, marketing and sales of our digital commerce solutions products, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We are executing on a strategy to grow revenue significantly in our Digital Commerce Solutions segment, including allocating a significant percentage of our total research and development budget to this segment to develop, among other things, new customer engagement, location intelligence and e-commerce cross-border parcel management solutions. The process of developing new technologies, products and solutions can be costly and uncertain, and if we are not successful at identifying rapidly changing customer needs and developing new technologies and solutions to meet these needs at competitive prices, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected.We depend on third-party suppliers and outsource providers and our business could be adversely affected if we fail to manage these constituents effectively.We depend on third-party suppliers and outsource providers for a variety of services, components and supplies, including a large portion of our product manufacturing and some non-core functions and operations. In certain instances, we rely on single sourced or limited sourced suppliers and outsourcing vendors around the world because doing so is advantageous due to quality, price or lack of alternative sources. If production or services were interrupted and we were not able to find alternate third-party suppliers, we could experience disruptions in manufacturing and operations including product shortages, higher freight costs and re-engineering costs. If outsourcing services were interrupted, not performed, or the performance was poor, our ability to process, record and report transactions with our clients and other constituents could be impacted. Such interruptions in the provision of supplies and/or services could impact our ability to meet client demand, damage our reputation and client relationships and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.8Capital market disruptions and credit rating downgrades could adversely affect our ability to provide financing services to our clients and to fund various discretionary priorities, including business investments, acquisitions and dividend payments.  Our continued ability to provide financing services to our clients for equipment, postage and supplies purchases to our clients is largely dependent upon our continued access to the U.S. capital markets. We are currently funding our financing activities with a combination of cash generated from operations, deposits held in the Bank and commercial paper and other borrowings. Our ability to access the U.S. capital markets and the cost associated with our funding activities is dependent on our credit ratings and market volatility. A credit ratings downgrade, material capital market disruptions, significant withdrawals by depositors at the Bank, adverse changes to our industrial loan charter or a significant decline in cash flow could impact our ability to provide competitive finance offerings to our clients. In addition, if such events occurred, there can be no assurance that liquidity funding sources would be available or sufficient and that related costs would not adversely impact our ability to fund various discretionary priorities, including business investments, acquisitions and dividend payments.Failure to comply with privacy laws and other related regulations could subject us to significant liability and damage our reputation. Several of our businesses use, process and store proprietary information and confidential data relating to our businesses, clients and employees. Privacy laws and similar regulations in many jurisdictions where we do business, as well as contractual provisions, require that we take significant steps to safeguard this information.  These laws are continuing to evolve.  We have security systems and procedures in place designed to protect against unauthorized access to such information. However, there is no guarantee that experienced computer programmers or hackers will not be able to breach our security systems and misappropriate confidential information. Any significant violations of data privacy, disclosure of other confidential information or failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or contract provisions could damage our reputation and business and subject us to significant costs and/or liability. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant.  A disruption of our information technology systems could adversely impact our business and operating results.The continuous and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems is critical to our ability to support and service our clients, to support postal services and to manage our business. We maintain secure systems to collect revenue for certain postal services, which is critical to enable both our systems and the postal systems to run reliably. In addition, we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our business. These systems are subject to adverse acts of nature, targeted or random security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, vandalism, power loss, computer or communications failures and other unexpected events. Although we have disaster recovery plans in place to protect our business operations in case of such events, those plans may not be successful. If our information technology systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we could be prevented from fulfilling orders and servicing clients and postal services. Also, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace these systems, and could suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations. Our inability to obtain and protect our intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement by others may negatively impact our operating results.  We rely on copyright, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries to establish and protect proprietary rights that are important to our business. If we fail to enforce our intellectual property rights, our business may suffer. We, our clients, or our suppliers, may be subject to third-party claims of infringement on intellectual property rights. These claims, if successful, may require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of strategic acquisitions and divestitures, which may harm our financial results.As we increase our focus towards providing more digital technology and software solutions while maintaining a leadership role in the mailing industry, we may divest certain businesses or make strategic acquisitions. These divestitures and acquisitions may involve significant risks and uncertainties, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results, including:•the loss of key employees or clients of businesses acquired or divested;•significant charges to earnings for employee severance and other restructuring costs, goodwill and asset impairments and legal, accounting and financial advisory fees;  •difficulties in achieving anticipated benefits or synergies from acquisitions and divestitures; •difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings and entering new markets, or reducing fixed costs previously associated with divested assets or businesses; and•difficulties in identifying and separating intellectual property to be divested from intellectual property we wish to keep.If we are not successful at realizing the anticipated benefits of strategic acquisitions and divestitures, our financial results could be negatively impacted.9If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, our operating results, brand name and reputation could suffer.We have a significant number of contracts with governmental entities. Government contracts are subject to extensive and complex procurement laws and regulations, along with regular audits of contract pricing and our business practices by government agencies. If we are found to have violated some provisions of these contracts, we could be required to provide a refund, pay significant damages, or be subject to contract cancellation, civil or criminal penalties, fines or debarment from doing business with the government.  Any of these events could not only affect us financially, but also adversely affect our brand and reputation.Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations.We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things:•the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials;•emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; •the cleanup of contaminated sites;•substances that may be subject to regulation in the manufacture, distribution, use or disposal of our products; and•the health and safety of our employees.Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. If we are found to have violated these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. Certain environmental laws can assess liability on contaminated sites retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. From time to time, we may be involved in litigation over these issues. The amount and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict and there can be no assurance that these costs will not materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our planned implementation of a new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system.We will begin implementing a new ERP system in 2014. The implementation will occur in stages and is expected to provide operating cost savings through the elimination of redundant systems and strategic efficiencies through the use of a standardized, integrated system. We will make a significant investment and incur incremental expenses over the course of the implementation of this ERP system. If the implementation of the system is not successful, the operating cost savings and strategic efficiencies may not be obtained or sustainable.   10ITEM 1B