ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORSIn addition to the disclosures and other information discussed in this report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business.  We work to manage and mitigate these risks proactively, including through the use of an enterprise risk management program.  Nevertheless, the following risks, some of which may be beyond our control, could materially impact our businesses, our brand and reputation, financial condition and results of operations and may cause future results to be materially different than our current expectations:We are subject to postal regulations and processes, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability.The majority of our revenue is directly or indirectly subject to regulation and oversight by postal authorities worldwide. We depend on a healthy postal sector in the geographic markets where we do business, which could be influenced positively or negatively by legislative or regulatory changes in those countries. Our profitability and revenue in a particular country could be affected by adverse changes in postal regulations, the business processes and practices of individual posts, the decision of a post to enter into particular markets in direct competition with us and the impact of any of these changes on postal competitors that do not use our products or services. These changes could affect product specifications, service offerings, client behavior and the overall mailing industry.  Further, if we are found to have violated postal regulations, we could be subject to fines or civil or criminal penalties.  An accelerated decline in physical mail volumes could have an increasingly adverse effect on our revenues and profitability as we transition to more digital offerings and other services.The use of postal services to send physical mail continues to decline, which has had an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.   An accelerated or sudden decline in physical mail volumes could result from, among other things, changes in our clients' communication behavior; changes in communications technologies; expansion of mobile Internet access; the growing trend by businesses to incent or require their clients to use alternatives to mail for payments and statement presentment; government actions such as executive orders, legislation or regulations that mandate electronic substitution, prohibit certain types of mailings, increase the difficulty of using information or materials in the mail, or impose higher taxes or fees on mailing or postal services; and unexpected events such as the transmission of biological or chemical agents or acts of terrorism. We do not expect total mail volumes to rebound to prior peak levels.  We have introduced various product and service offerings as alternatives to physical mail.  However, margin on these new product and service offerings are lower than our traditional mailing business; there is no guarantee that these offerings will be widely accepted in the marketplace; and if accepted, they will face competition from existing and emerging alternative products and services.We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our strategic acquisitions and divestitures, which may harm our financial results.We have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties, including:•challenges in identifying and evaluating the acquisitions and divestitures that best enable our future success;•inability to complete acquisitions or divestitures on satisfactory terms or time frames or at all;•loss of key employees or clients of businesses acquired or divested;•difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings and entering new markets;•difficulties in reducing fixed costs previously associated with divested assets or businesses; and•difficulties in identifying and separating intellectual property to be divested from intellectual property we wish to keep.In addition, as we increase our focus towards providing more digital technology and software solutions for businesses while maintaining a leadership role in the mailing industry, restructuring charges, asset impairments and other expenses may result.  We may also need to divert and/or dedicate management and other resources to complete the transactions.  Furthermore, such transactions often have post-closing arrangements including but not limited to post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict.  If we do not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of our acquisitions and divestitures, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively affected.We depend on third-party suppliers and outsource providers and our business could be adversely affected if we fail to manage these constituents effectively.We depend on third-party suppliers and outsource providers for a variety of services, components and supplies, including a large portion of our product manufacturing and some non-core functions and operations.  In certain instances, we rely on single sourced or limited sourced suppliers and outsourcing vendors around the world because doing so is advantageous due to quality, price or lack of alternative sources.  If production or service was interrupted and we were not able to find alternate third-party suppliers, we could experience 5disruptions in manufacturing and operations including product shortages, higher freight costs and re-engineering costs.  If outsourcing services are interrupted or not performed or the performance is poor, our ability to process, record and report transactions with our clients and other constituents could be impacted.  Such interruptions in the provision of supplies and/or services could result in our inability to meet client demand, damage our reputation and client relationships and adversely affect our business.Market and business deteriorations and credit downgrades could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.  We provide financing services to our clients for equipment, postage and supplies purchases.  Our ability to provide these services is largely dependent upon our continued access to the U.S. capital markets.  An additional source of liquidity consists of deposits held in our wholly owned industrial loan corporation, The Pitney Bowes Bank.  A credit ratings downgrade, material capital market disruptions, significant withdrawals by depositors at The Pitney Bowes Bank, adverse changes to our industrial loan charter or a significant decline in cash flow could impact our ability to maintain adequate liquidity and provide competitive offerings to our clients. If such events occurred, there can be no assurance that liquidity funding sources would be available or sufficient, and those funding sources that may be available could result in a significantly higher cost of borrowing and adversely impact our ability to fund various discretionary priorities, including business investments, pension contributions and dividend payments.Failure to comply with privacy laws and other related regulations could subject us to significant liability and damage our reputation. Several of our businesses use, process and store client information that could include confidential, personal or financial information.  We also provide third-party benefits administrators with access to our employees' personal information.  Privacy laws and similar regulations in many jurisdictions where we do business, as well as contractual provisions, require that we and our benefits administrators take significant steps to safeguard this information.  These laws are continuing to evolve.  We, and our third-party benefits administrators, have security systems and procedures in place that are designed to protect against unauthorized access to such information; however, there is no guarantee that experienced computer programmers or hackers will not be able to gain access to our securities systems or the security systems of our third-party benefits administrators and misappropriate confidential information.  Any significant violations of data privacy, disclosure of other confidential information or failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or contract provisions could damage our reputation and business and subject us to significant remediation costs and/or liability.A disruption of our information technology systems could adversely impact our business and operating results.Our portfolio of product, service and financing solutions is dependent on reliable information technology systems.  We maintain secure systems to collect revenue for certain postal services, which is critical to enable both our systems and the postal systems to run reliably. In addition, we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our business.  These systems are subject to adverse acts of nature, targeted or random security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, vandalism, power loss, computer or communications failures and other unexpected events.  Although we have disaster recovery plans in place to protect our business operations in case of such events, those plans may not be successful.  If our information technology systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we could be prevented from fulfilling orders and servicing clients and postal services.  Also, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace these systems, and could suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations.  The continuous and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems is critical to our ability to support and service our clients, to support postal services and to manage our business.Our inability to obtain and protect our intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement by others may negatively impact our operating results.  We do not believe our businesses are materially dependent on any one patent or license or group of patents or licenses.  However, we rely on copyright, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries to establish and protect proprietary rights that are important to our business.  If we fail to enforce our intellectual property rights, our businesses may suffer.  We, or our suppliers, may be subject to third-party claims of infringement on intellectual property rights.  These claims, if successful, may require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, our operating results, brand name and reputation could suffer.Many of our contracts are with governmental entities. Government contracts are subject to extensive and complex government procurement laws and regulations, along with regular audits of contract pricing and our business practices by government agencies.  If we are found to have violated some provisions of the government contracts, we could be required to provide a refund, pay significant damages, or be subject to contract cancellation, civil or criminal penalties, fines or debarment from doing business with the government.  Any of these events could not only affect us financially, but also adversely affect our brand and reputation.6Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations.We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things:•the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials;•emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; •substances that may be subject to regulation in the manufacture, distribution, use or disposal of our products; and•the health and safety of our employees.If we are found to have violated these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. From time to time, we may be involved in litigation over these issues.Certain environmental laws assess liability on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their property or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. We may be subject to material liabilities for environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on existing environmental conditions resulting from events that happened long ago.The ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. There can be no assurance that our costs of complying with environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.ITEM 1B