ITEM 1A.                    RISK FACTORS.

The following are significant risks which could
negatively impact the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.

Business
and Industry Risks

The commercial truck market demand is variable.  Demand for commercial vehicles depends
to some extent on economic and other conditions in a given market and the
introduction of new vehicles and technologies. 
Further, the yearly demand for commercial vehicles may increase
or decrease more than overall gross domestic product in markets the
Company serves which are principally North America and Western
Europe.  Demand may also be affected by
factors impacting new truck prices such as costs of raw materials and
components and cost of compliance with governmental regulations (including
tariffs, engine emissions regulations, import regulation and taxes).

The financial services industry is highly
competitive.  The
Company competes with banks, other commercial finance companies and
financial services firms which may have lower costs of borrowing, higher
leverage or market share goals that result in a willingness to offer lower
interest rates, which may lead to decreased margins, lower market share or
both. A decline in the Company’s commercial truck unit sales, an
increase in residual value risk due to lower used truck pricing and
increased funding costs are also factors which may negatively affect the
Company’s financial services operations.

The financial services segment is subject to
credit risk.  The
financial services segment is exposed to the risk of loss arising from the
failure of a customer, dealer or counterparty to meet the terms of the loans,
leases and derivative contracts with the Company.  Although the financial assets of the
financial services segment are secured by underlying equipment collateral,
in the event a customer cannot meet its obligations to the Company, there
is a risk that the value of the underlying collateral will not be
sufficient to recover the amounts owed to the Company resulting in
credit losses.

Political, Regulatory and Economic Risks

The Company’s operations could be subject to
currency and interest rate fluctuations.  The Company’s consolidated financial
statements, which are presented in U.S. dollars, are affected by foreign
currency exchange fluctuations through both translation and transaction
risk.  The Company uses certain
derivative financial instruments and localized production of its products to reduce,
but not eliminate, the effects of interest rate and foreign currency exchange
rate fluctuations.

The Company may be adversely affected by political
instabilities, fuel shortages or interruptions in transportation systems,
natural calamities, wars, terrorism and labor strikes.  The
Company is subject to various risks associated with conducting business
worldwide.


 5 






ITEM 1B