Item 1A
of this Annual Report; therefore, actual results may differ materially from
those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements.

Expressions
of future goals, expectations and similar expressions including, without
limitation, “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “does not currently
expect,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,”
“potential,” “targets,” or “continue,” reflecting something other than
historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The
following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ
materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: adverse
changes in general market conditions for leisure and other travel services as
the result of, among other things, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or the
outbreak of an epidemic or pandemic disease; adverse changes in our
relationships with airlines and other product and service providers which could
include, without limitation, the withdrawal of suppliers from the priceline.com
system (either priceline.com’s retail or “opaque” services, or both); the loss
or reduction of global distribution fees; the bankruptcy or insolvency of
another major domestic airline; the effects of increased competition;
systems-related failures and/or security breaches, including without
limitation, any security breach that results in the theft, transfer or
unauthorized disclosure of customer information, or the failure to comply with
various state laws applicable to the company’s obligations in the event of such
a breach; difficulties integrating recent acquisitions, such as Booking.com
Limited (formerly known as Active Hotels Ltd.) and Booking.com B.V. (formerly
known as Bookings B.V.), including, ensuring the effectiveness of the design
and operation of internal controls and disclosure controls of acquired
businesses; a change by a major search engine to its search engine algorithms
that negatively affects the search engine ranking of the company or its third
party distribution partners; legal and regulatory risks; and the ability to
attract and retain qualified personnel. These factors and others are described
in more detail below under the heading “Risk Factors.”  Unless required by law, we undertake no
obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should
carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time
with the SEC, particularly our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current
reports on Form 8-K.

PART I

Item
1.  Business

General

We
are a leading online travel company that offers our customers a broad range of
travel services, including airline tickets, hotel rooms, car rentals, vacation
packages, cruises and destination services. 
We offer our customers a unique choice: the ability to purchase travel
services in a traditional, price-disclosed manner, both in the United States
and Europe, or the opportunity to use our unique Name Your Own Price® service, which allows our customers to make
offers for travel services at discounted prices.  At present, we derive substantially all of
our revenues from the following sources:

·                              Transaction revenues from our Name Your Own Price®  airline ticket, hotel room and rental car services, as
well as our vacation packages service;


 1 






 

·                              Commissions earned from the sale
of price-disclosed hotel rooms, rental cars, cruises and other travel services;

·                              Customer processing fees
charged in connection with the sale of both Name
Your Own Price® and price-disclosed airline tickets, hotel
rooms and rental cars services;

·                              Transaction revenue from our
price-disclosed hotel room service;

·                              Global distribution system (“GDS”)
reservation booking fees related to both our Name
Your Own Price® airline ticket, hotel room and rental car
service, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and

·                              Other revenues derived
primarily from selling advertising on our websites.

For the year ended
December 31, 2006, we had revenues of approximately $1.1 billion comprised of “merchant”
revenue, “agency” revenue and “other” revenue. 
Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where we are the
merchant of record and are responsible for, among other things, collecting
receipts from our customers and remitting payments to our suppliers.  Merchant revenues, which represented the
substantial majority of our total revenues in 2006, consisted of: (1) transaction
revenues representing the selling price of Name
Your Own Price® airline tickets, hotel rooms,
rental cars and price-disclosed vacation packages services; (2) transaction
revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged
by suppliers in connection with the hotel rooms provided through our merchant
price-disclosed hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in
connection with the sale of Name Your Own
Price® airline tickets, hotel rooms and rental cars
and merchant price-disclosed hotels services; and (4) ancillary fees, including
GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the transactions described
above.  Agency revenues are generally derived from
retail travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and
where the prices of our services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues
consisted primarily of: (1) travel commissions; (2) customer processing fees;
and (3) GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the aforementioned
transactions.  Other revenues
consisted primarily of revenue from advertising on our websites.

Priceline.com was formed
as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted into a
Delaware corporation in July 1998.  Our
common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “PCLN.”  Our principal executive offices are located
at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.

The
priceline.com Website

We maintain a
website with the address www.priceline.com, among others.  We are not including the information
contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into,
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We make
available free of charge through the www.priceline.com website our Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as
soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with,
or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
These reports and other information are also available, free of charge,
at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials
we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.


 2 






 

The
priceline.com Business Model

We offer customers
the ability to purchase
travel services, including airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental car days,
vacations packages, destination services and cruises, through both a
traditional, price-disclosed “retail” manner, and through our proprietary
demand-collection system known as Name
Your Own Price®.  These services are made available over the
Internet through websites that we own or control, and are provided by major
travel suppliers, including more than 200 airline carriers and more than 60,000
hotel properties worldwide.  We believe
that the combination of our retail price-disclosed model and our Name Your Own Price® model allows us to provide a broad array of
options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with diverse streams
of revenue.

Price-Disclosed
Retail Travel Services. 
We offer customers the ability to
purchase price-disclosed airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental car days,
vacations packages, destination services and cruises at retail prices.  In these transactions, the customer typically
selects airline flights, hotel reservations, or other travel itineraries from
an array of results produced in response to the customer’s request.  These results include the identity of the
travel supplier, the exact price of the itinerary, and other details relating
to the itineraries.  In some
circumstances, the customer pays us the price of the itinerary at the time of
reservation, and in other circumstances, the customer pays the travel supplier
directly at the time of travel.

We
also offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel service in Europe through our
European operations, which we have developed through two recent
acquisitions.  In September 2004, we acquired Booking.com
Limited (formerly known as Active Hotels Ltd.), a Cambridge, England based
Internet hotel reservation distributor, and in July 2005, we acquired Amsterdam-based Booking.com B.V. (formerly
known as Bookings B.V.), one of continental Europe’s leading Internet hotel
reservation services, with offices primarily in Amsterdam, Barcelona, Berlin,
Loule, Paris, Rome and Vienna.  All of
our European operations, including Booking.com Limited and Booking.com B.V.,
are majority-owned by us.  We work with
over 25,000 chain-owned and independently owned hotels offering hotel
reservations on various websites and in multiple languages.  For
geographic related information, see Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Our European operations represented approximately 40.6% of our gross
bookings in the year ended December 31, 2006, and were a substantial
contributor to our consolidated operating income during that period and we
expect that throughout 2007 they will represent a growing percentage of our
total gross bookings and operating income.

Name Your Own Price®.  We have developed a unique pricing system
known as a “demand collection system” that uses the information sharing and
communications power of the Internet to create a new way of pricing products
and services.  We believe our services
have created a balance between the interests of buyers, who are willing to
accept trade-offs in order to save money, and sellers, who are prepared to
generate incremental revenue by selling their products at below retail prices,
provided that they can do so without disrupting their existing distribution
channels or retail pricing structures. 
Our demand collection system allows consumers to specify the price they
are prepared to pay when submitting an offer for a particular leisure travel
service within a specified range of substitutability.  We then access databases in which
participating suppliers file secure discounted rates not generally available to
the public, to determine whether we can fulfill the customer’s offer and decide
whether we want to accept the offer at the price designated by the
consumer.  For most of these
transactions, we have discretion in supplier selection and are the merchant of
record in the transaction.  Consumers
agree to hold their offers open for a specified period of time (generally, not
longer than one minute) to enable us to determine whether we can or want to
accept the offer.  Once fulfilled, offers
generally cannot be canceled — thereby making such purchases generally
non-refundable.


 3 






 

This system uses
the flexibility of buyers to enable sellers to accept a lower price in order to
sell their excess inventory or capacity. 
We believe that our demand collection system addresses limitations
inherent in traditional seller-driven pricing mechanisms in a manner that
offers substantial benefits to both buyers and sellers.  We believe that the principal advantages of
our system include the following:

·                  Cost Savings.  Our Name
Your Own Price® demand collection
system allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling way.  Buyers effectively trade off flexibility
about brands, product features and/or sellers in return for prices that are
lower than those that can be obtained at that time through traditional retail
distribution channels.

·                  Incremental Revenue for Sellers.  Sellers use our Name Your Own Price® demand collection system as a revenue
management tool to generate incremental revenue without disrupting their
existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.  We require consumers to be flexible with
respect to brands and product features. 
As a result, our Name Your Own Price® system does not reveal sellers’ brands to
customers prior to the consummation of a transaction, thereby protecting their
brand integrity.  This shielding of brand
identity and price enables sellers to sell products and services at discounted
prices without cannibalizing their own retail sales by publicly announcing
discount prices and without competing against their own distributors.

·                  Proprietary Seller Networks.  We have assembled proprietary networks of
industry leading sellers that represent high quality brands.  By establishing attractive networks of seller
participants with reputations for quality, scale and national presence, we
believe that we foster increased participation by both buyers and sellers.

We often refer to
products offered through our Name Your Own
Price® service as “opaque” products because all
aspects of the travel service are not visible to the consumer before making an
offer.

The
priceline.com Strategy

The online travel
category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth as consumer
purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive online
channels.  Priceline.com has been a
leader in the deep discount segment of this market and has embarked on a
strategy to participate more broadly in online travel growth by expanding its
service offerings and markets.

·                  Continue to be One of the Top Online Hotel Reservation
Services in Europe.  The size
of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than
that within the United States. 
Historically, Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of
international consumers have trailed those of the United States.  However, international consumers —
particularly European consumers — are rapidly moving to online means for
purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent
international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded and are
expected to continue to exceed the growth rates within the United States.  Prior to 2004, substantially all of our
revenues were generated within the United States.  In order to take advantage of the growth in
online travel outside of the United States, we acquired Internet hotel
reservation distributors Booking.com Limited and Booking.com B.V. in September
2004 and July 2005, respectively, giving us presence in the expanding European hotel
market with over 25,000 participating hotels across Europe.  Because of the superior growth rates
associated with international online travel, we intend to continue to invest
resources in increasing the share of our revenues represented by international
consumers and capitalize on intra-European travel demand and the growth of


 4 






                        travel between the United
States and Europe.  Specific initiatives
include geographic expansion, integration opportunities in Europe and with the
United States and building the Booking.com brand to enhance repeat business.

·                  Expand Service Offerings.  In 2003, we began to execute a plan to
broaden our array of service offerings beyond our Name Your Own Price® services. 
Specifically, we have expended significant resources to allow us to
introduce price-disclosed retail services to our consumers to compliment the Name Your Own Price® service. 
We believe that by offering a “one-stop-shopping” solution to our
customers, we can simultaneously fulfill the needs of those customers who are
prepared to accept the unique restrictions of our Name Your Own Price® service in exchange for receiving significant
savings relative to retail prices, as well as those customers who are less
price sensitive and require the certainty of knowing the full details of their
travel itinerary prior to purchasing.  We
believe that our evolution to a “one-stop-shopping” website allows us to more
fully participate in the overall growth of the online travel category.

·                  Offer More Ways to
Save.  Through the
www.priceline.com website, we offer our customers the unique ability to shop
and book price-disclosed or Name Your Own
Price® travel services
in a single, integrated display.  We are
continuously improving the integration and display of these two services so that
our customers can quickly and easily find the way to save that is best suited
for each trip they take, while maximizing user conversion and
profitability.  In addition to our Name Your Own Price® service, we offer additional money saving
alternatives, such as alternative airports or dates and discounted packaged
travel.  We intend to continue to develop
new money saving features for many of our services.

·                  Enhance Service Offerings.  We intend to continually enhance our service
offerings, particularly our more recently introduced retail offerings, by
adding competitive functionality, adding competitive content at competitive
pricing, adding and improving the content and merchandising on our website as
well as cross-sell opportunities to maximize customer conversion.

·                  Competitive functionality: We continue to
expend significant resources to remain competitive in terms of the features and
functionality we offer our customers. 
For example, since launching our retail air service, we have added the
ability to search for flexible dates or alternative airports, book one-way and
multi-destination itineraries and easily make modifications to search
criteria.  We intend to add additional
functionality such as the ability to search child and senior fares and to
access real time seat maps.

·                  Competitive pricing: We believe that
having a competitive selection of travel options at competitive pricing is
critical to our success.  For example, in
2006, we added nearly 1,000 additional destinations and nearly 6,000 additional
hotels to our vacation package service. 
In addition, we renewed or entered into new agreements with several of
our major airline and hotel suppliers in 2006, improving our access to a better
selection of travel alternatives and pricing.

·                  Content and merchandising: As part of our
evolution to a “one-stop-shopping” website, we have added thousands of pages of
content to allow customers to research destinations and hotel properties before
booking a reservation.  We offer property
descriptions, maps, images, and user reviews whereby our customers can benefit
from the experiences and opinions of other customers.  We introduced “PriceBreakerssm,” which is a presentation


 5 






                        of
selected travel itineraries at discounted prices that is updated daily.  We intend to continue to improve our content
and merchandising with more comprehensive descriptions, more and higher quality
images, and more user reviews, which we believe will improve conversion of
users shopping on our website.

·                  Cross-sell opportunities: We also cross-sell different
travel components to maximize the revenue we generate from each customer.  We have developed and implemented
functionality that allows customers to “add-on” travel components to their
selection, both during the shopping experience and at time of purchase.  For example, customers can add a rental car
reservation to their air or hotel reservation, or a hotel reservation to their
air reservation.  Customers can also add
destination related services such as shuttles, tours and activities.  Additionally, we cross-sell opaque services
on our retail path and retail services on our opaque path.  For example, an unsuccessful opaque air
customer may be offered a price-disclosed alternative, while a retail hotel
customer may be offered the Name Your Own
Price®  alternative
for greater savings.  We intend to
further enhance these cross-sell opportunities across all of our services.

·                  Offer Travel Suppliers Valuable Distribution.  We strive to be the preferred discount
distribution channel for airlines, hotels and rental car companies.  Our Name
Your Own Price® service protects
supplier brand and published pricing and our packages and other merchandising
provide access to the brand neutral leisure traveler at attractive distribution
costs.

Service Offerings

Name Your Own Price® Hotels.  Through our Name Your Own Price®  hotel room reservation service, customers can make
reservations at hotel properties in substantially all major cities and
metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant national hotel chains as
well as several important real estate investment trusts and independent
property owners participate in our Name Your
Own Price® service.  Hotels participate by filing secure private
discounted rates with related inventory control rules in a global distribution
system database.  These specific rates
generally are not available to the general public or to consolidators and other
discount distributors who sell to the public, however, hotel participants may
make similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under
other arrangements.

Our Name Your Own Price®  hotel room reservation service operates in a manner
similar to our Name Your Own Price®  airline ticket service.  Consumers are required to accept certain
trade-offs with respect to brands or product features in return for saving
money.  For example, consumers are
required to accept a reservation in any hotel within a specified geographic
area within a designated “class” of service (1, 2, 3, 4, 5-star or “resort”)
and must accept limitations on changes and cancellations.  As with the airline ticket service, the
target market for our hotel room reservation service is the leisure travel
market.

Retail
Hotels.  In May 2004, we added a price-disclosed hotel
service through the acquisition of Travelweb LLC (“Travelweb”).  In March 2005, we launched a price-disclosed
hotel service on www.priceline.com that enables our customers to choose between
price-disclosed or Name Your Own Price® hotel rooms. 
Our retail hotel service makes available both agency and merchant model
hotels.  Under the merchant model,
pursuant to merchant arrangements we make directly with individual hotel chains
and independent hotel properties, we receive access to participating hotels directly
from the hotels at a negotiated rate. 
Under the agency model, we receive access to hotel inventory at
generally


 6 






available rates, and
are paid a commission upon a customer’s check-out.  As with our retail airline ticket service,
hotel reservations booked in a retail manner do not have the restrictions
associated with our Name Your Own Price® service. 
Customers can select the exact hotel they want to book and the price of
the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.

In addition, as
discussed above, the
acquisitions of Booking.com Limited in September 2004, and Booking.com B.V. in
July 2005, gave us a foothold into the expanding European hotel market, as well
as access to European inventory.

Name Your Own Price®  Airline Tickets. 
There are a total of 12 domestic airlines and 29 international airlines
participating in our Name Your Own Price®  airline ticket service.

All Name Your Own Price® airline ticket
requests are made through our websites. 
To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the origin and destination
of the trip, (2) the dates on which the customer wishes to depart and return,
(3) the price the customer is willing to pay, and (4) the customer’s valid
credit card to guarantee the offer.  When
making an offer, consumers must agree to:

·                  fly
on any one of our participating airline partners;

·                  leave
at any time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of departure
and return;

·                  purchase
only round trip coach class tickets between the same two points of departure
and return;

·                  accept
at least one stop or connection;

·                  receive
no frequent flier miles or upgrades; and

·                  accept
tickets that cannot be refunded or changed.

When we receive an offer,
we determine whether to fulfill the offer based upon, among other things, the
available fares, rules and itineraries provided to us by our participating
airlines and certain other internal requirements.  A customer is usually notified whether his or
her offer has been accepted in near real-time. 
If we identify an airline ticket that meets the parameters specified by
the customer and that meets our internal requirements, the customer’s offer is
accepted and his or her credit card is charged the offer price, plus applicable
taxes, surcharges and processing fees, and the ticket is delivered to the
customer by the delivery method specified by the customer.  For customers who request it, we guarantee no
more than one connection per leg of trip with a maximum of a three-hour
stop.  As with our other Name Your Own Price®   travel
services, once a customer’s offer for airline tickets is accepted, that offer,
in almost all cases, cannot be withdrawn or cancelled and the customer’s
purchase will not be refunded.

If a customer’s offer is
not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably close to a price that we
would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy the customer by
providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing certain parameters
of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being accepted.  For example, in some cases we disclose to the
customer that agreeing to fly into an alternate airport would increase the
chances of his or her offer being accepted. 
In other cases, we inform the customer that increasing his or her offer
by a certain amount would increase the chances of it being accepted.  We may also offer a customer the opportunity
to purchase a price-disclosed retail airline ticket.


 7










 

Retail
Airline Tickets.  Since 2003, we have also offered
our customers the ability to purchase retail airline tickets at disclosed
prices and with disclosed itineraries. 
In these transactions, we act as agent for the airline.  The airline sets the retail price paid by the
consumer and is the merchant of record for the transaction.  These airline tickets do not have the
restrictions associated with our Name Your Own Price® service. 
For example, in addition to having fully disclosed itineraries, retail
airline tickets are generally changeable and cancellable for a fee.

Name Your Own Price®  Rental Cars.  Our Name Your Own Price® rental car service operates in a manner
similar to our airline ticket and hotel reservation services.  Our rental car services are currently
available in substantially all major United States airport markets.  The top five brand name airport rental car
companies in the United States are seller participants in our rental car
program.  Consumers can access our
website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind of car
they want to rent (e.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the price
they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine
whether to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates and rules.  If a customer’s offer is accepted, we will
immediately reserve the rental car, charge the customer’s credit card and
notify the customer of the rental car company and location providing the rental
car.

Retail Rental Cars.  In 2004, we launched a price-disclosed rental
car service on
www.priceline.com that enables our customers to choose between price-disclosed
or Name Your Own Price® rental cars. 
In 2005, we upgraded our retail rental car service to accommodate
one-way and off-airport reservations. 
Our price-disclosed rental car service operates under the agency model, under which we
earn a commission upon rental car return. 
As with our
retail airline ticket and hotel reservation services, rental car reservations
booked in a retail manner do not have the restrictions associated with our Name Your Own Price® service. 
Customers can select the exact car they want to book and the price of
the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.

With respect to each of
our airline, hotel and rental car services, we believe the combination of our Name Your Own Price® model and the retail model allows us to provide a
broad array of options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with
diverse streams of revenue.

Vacation
Packages.  Our vacation package service allows consumers
to purchase packages consisting of airfare, hotel and rental car
components.  Consumers can select the
exact hotel or resort that they want to reserve, and then, in most cases, select
either a retail airline ticket or an opaque airline ticket for the air
component of their package. 
Additionally, consumers can add destination related services such as
tours, shuttles, and activities. 
Vacation packages are sold at disclosed prices, although consumers
cannot determine the exact price of the individual components.

Destination
Services.  We currently offer customers the opportunity
to purchase destination services such as event tickets, ground transfers,
tours, restaurant meals and other services available at their travel
destinations.  This service is offered to
consumers as part of the process of booking an air, hotel and vacation
reservation, and also as a standalone service. 
In 2005, we expanded our destination services offering by adding parking
in certain locations and expanded ground transfer options.

Cruises. 
We also offer price-disclosed cruise trips through National Leisure
Group, Inc. (“NLG”), an agent representing major cruise lines.  Our cruise service allows consumers to search
for and compare cruise pricing and availability information from 17 cruise
lines, and to purchase cruises online or through a call center by selecting
from our published offerings and prices. 
We receive commissions from NLG on successful cruise bookings.


 8 






 

Travel
Insurance.  We offer our air, hotel and vacation package
customers an optional travel insurance package that provides coverage for,
among other things, trip cancellation, trip interruption, medical expenses,
emergency evacuation, and loss of baggage, property and travel documents.  The travel insurance is provided by member
companies of American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”).  We receive a percentage of the premium from
AIG member companies for every optional insurance package purchased by our
customers.

While we are currently
focused on the travel services described above, over time, we may evaluate the
introduction of other services that we believe could enhance the travel
experience of our customers.

Financial
Services

We
offer financial services through Priceline Mortgage Company LLC, d/b/a
pricelinemortgage.com, of which we own 49% and hold two of five seats on the
board of managers.  Pursuant to an intellectual property license from us,
pricelinemortgage.com utilizes the priceline.com Name Your Own Price® business model.  Pricelinemortgage.com is controlled by
EverBank, a federally chartered savings association supervised by the Office of
Thrift Supervision, and a wholly owned subsidiary of EverBank Financial
Corp.  Pricelinemortgage.com has access to the management resources and
expertise of EverBank, one of the nation’s largest privately held banking and
mortgage firms. EverBank Financial Corp. provides management services to
pricelinemortgage.com, including the procurement of personnel and office space
and assistance in obtaining regulatory approvals.  Pricelinemortgage.com
is operating in all 50 states.  Robert J. Mylod, our Chief Financial
Officer, is a director of, and an investor in, EverBank Financial Corp., the
parent company of EverBank.  Mr. Mylod’s investment represents less than
1/10 of one percent of EverBank Financial Corp.’s outstanding common stock.

Under
the terms of an agreement with EverBank Financial Corp., pricelinemortgage.com
allows consumers to access attractive financial services including, but not
limited to, mortgages, home equity loans, and banking service.  We record our proportionate share of the
results of pricelinemortgage.com as equity in income (loss) of investees and
minority interests.

Marketing
and Brand Awareness

Priceline.com has
established itself as one of the most recognized e-commerce brands through an
aggressive marketing and promotion campaign. 
During 2006, our total online and offline advertising expenses were
approximately $113.8 million and $31.8 million, respectively, a substantial
portion of which was spent in Europe.  We
intend to continue a marketing strategy to promote brand awareness and the
concept that consumers can save money on products and services while also
taking advantage of the “one-stop-shop” convenience afforded by our suite of
travel service offerings.  We advertise
primarily through television, radio and online marketing.  Underlying our marketing strategy is our belief
that our target market is all consumers, not just Internet-savvy
consumers.  We intend to continue to
promote the priceline.com and Booking.com brands aggressively throughout 2007.

As our European operations become more meaningful contributors to our
results, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in our
advertising expense.  Specifically,
because our European operations utilize online affiliate marketing and Internet
search engines, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords, as
principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our online advertising
expense has increased significantly since our acquisition of those companies, a
trend we expect to continue throughout 2007.


 9 






 

Advertising Revenue.  We
sell advertising to travel suppliers and others on our owned websites.

Competition

We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we
offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and
current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. In
addition, the major online travel companies with which we compete have
significantly greater financial resources and capital than we do.  We may not be able to effectively compete
with industry conglomerates such as Travelport, Sabre or Expedia, each of which
have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do.

We currently or potentially
compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With
respect to our travel services, these competitors include:

·                  Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are
owned by Expedia; Travelocity and lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre
Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, Gullivers.com, ebookers plc, octopustravel and
Flairview, which are currently owned by Travelport, a subsidiary of the
Blackstone Group; laterooms and hotelopia owned by First Choice plc, and
Superbreak, Venere, hotel.de and Hotel Reservation Service;

·                  travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car
companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive
business;

·                  large online portal and search companies, such as AOL (including AOL
Travel), Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel) and Google;

·                  traditional travel agencies;

·                  online travel search sites such as SideStep.com, Mobissimo.com,
FareChase.com, Kayak.com (sometimes referred to as “meta-search”) and travel
research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo
and Cheapflights.com; and

·                  operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo,
Worldspan, L.P., Amadeus and Sabre.

Many airline, hotel and
rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, are
focusing on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party
distributors such as us.  Certain
suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book
airline reservations through an online channel other than their own
website.  Furthermore, many low cost
airlines, which are having increasing success in the marketplace, distribute
their inventory exclusively through their own websites.  Suppliers who sell on their own websites
typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer
advantages such as bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings
more attractive to consumers than models like ours.

We potentially face
competition from a number of large Internet companies and services that have
expertise in developing online commerce and in facilitating Internet traffic,
including Amazon.com, AOL, MSN, Google.com and Yahoo!, which compete with us
either directly or indirectly through affiliations with other e-commerce or
off-line companies.  We also compete with
“meta-search” companies, which are companies that leverage their search
technology to aggregate travel search results across supplier, travel agent and
other websites.  For example, Yahoo! owns
FareChase.com, a travel


 10 






search-engine that searches for fares and hotel rates
at travel supplier and third-party websites, and refers traffic to those sites,
and AOL is party to a marketing and technology agreement, and holds a minority
interest in, Kayak.com, another leading meta-search company.  Other established search engine companies as
well as start-ups are attempting to enter the online travel marketplace in this
manner.  If Yahoo!, Google or other
portals decide to refer significant traffic to travel search engines, it could
result in more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition
costs for third-party sites such as ours. 
Competition from these and other sources could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Many of our current and
potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these
competitors may be able to secure products and services on more favorable terms
than we can. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote
significantly greater resources to:

·                  marketing and promotional campaigns;

·                  attracting traffic to their websites;

·                  attracting and retaining key employees;

·                  securing vendors and inventory; and

·                  website and systems development.

Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, loss
of market share and damage to our brand. There can be no assurance that we will
be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. See “Risk Factors — Intense competition could reduce our market share and
harm our financial performance.”

Operations and Technology

Our domestic business is supported by a systems
platform, which was designed with an emphasis on scalability, performance and
reliability.  Our core demand collection
and offer processing systems are proprietary to priceline.com.  The software platform and architecture are
built on server-side Java, C++, ASP, & Perl, and SQL scripts integrated
with Oracle & MYSQL relational database systems.  This internal platform was designed to
include open application protocol interfaces that can provide connectivity to
vendors in the industries in which we operate. 
These include large global inventory systems, such as airline and hotel
room reservation systems and financial service providers, as well as individual
inventory suppliers, such as individual hotels. 
Our Internet servers utilize digital certificates to help us conduct
secure communications and transactions, as appropriate.

We out-source most
of our domestic call center and customer service functions, and use a real-time
interactive voice response system with transfer capabilities to our call
centers and customer service centers.

Our systems
infrastructure and web and database servers in the U.S. are hosted at SAVVIS in
Jersey City, New Jersey, which provides communication links, as well as 24-hour
monitoring and engineering support. 
SAVVIS has its own generator and multiple back-up systems in Jersey
City.  Substantial amounts of our
computer hardware for operating our services are also located at SAVVIS in
Jersey City.  We also maintain a second
web hosting facility at AT&T in New York City. Our network 


 11 






operations center
monitors both web hosting facilities and is located in our Norwalk, Connecticut
headquarters.  All three facilities have
an uninterruptible power supply system, generators and redundant servers.  If SAVVIS were unable, for any reason, to
support our primary web hosting facility, we would need to activate our
secondary site at AT&T.

The systems
infrastructure and web and database servers of our European operations are
hosted at IX EUROPE, in London, England, and TrueServer BV and Redbus
Interhouse Netherlands, in the Netherlands. 
See “Risk Factors
— Our business is dependent upon third party systems and service providers.”

Intellectual
Property

We currently hold
fifteen issued United States patents, Nos. 5,794,207; 5,897,620; 6,085,169;
6,108,639; 6,134,534; 6,240,396; 6,332,129; 6,345,090; 6,356,878; 6,418,415;
6,466,919; 6,484,153; 6,510,418; 6,553,346; 6,993,503 and over twenty pending
United States and foreign patent applications. 
All of our issued United States patents expire between September 4, 2016
and April 28, 2020.  We file additional
patent applications on new inventions, as appropriate.

While we believe
that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our
business, there can be no assurance that:

·                  a
third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us
from practicing features of our business or that will require us to pay for a
license to use those features;

·                  our
operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties;

·                  any
patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third parties;

·                  the
pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents;

·                  competitors
or potential competitors of priceline.com will not devise new methods of
competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications;

·                  because
of variations in the application of our business model to each of our services,
our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from
utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more
categories; or

·                  new
prior art will not be discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate
an issued patent.

There has been discussion
in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so-called “business
method” patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has
indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable to such
patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a direct effect on patents
already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, the new review
process will have on our pending patent applications. See, “Risk Factors — We are
party to legal proceedings, which, if adversely decided, could materially
adversely affect us.”

We hold the exclusive
rights to the trade names and service marks PRICELINEÒ and
PRICELINE.COMÒ in the U.S. as well as in many foreign
countries.  We own U.S. Service Mark
Registrations Nos. 2,481,750; 2,272,659; 2,594,582 for PRICELINE, and
2,481,752; 2,594,592;


 12 






2,594,592; and
2,481,112 for PRICELINE.COM, including all attendant goodwill.  We also own U.S. Service Mark Registrations
Nos. 2,647,673 and 2,644,739 for NAME YOUR OWN PRICEÒ;
U.S. Service Mark Registration No. 2,481,751 for PRICELINEMORTGAGE®, and others. 
In addition, through our European subsidiary Bookings Europe BV, we hold
the registered service mark BOOKINGS in the Netherlands (Benelux no. 762054)
and in France (French registration no. 43276223, as well as French registration
no. 43276225 for BOOKING; two European Community (“EC”) service mark
registrations for BOOKINGS (Regs. Nos. 3413846 and 3413952,) and one for ACTIVE
HOTELS (ED Reg. No. 3859618).

We aggressively monitor,
protect and enforce our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress,
domain names and trade secrets on an ongoing basis through a combination of
laws and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements.  For example, we endeavor to register our
trademarks and service marks in the United States and internationally,
currently holding over four hundred service mark registrations worldwide.  However, effective trademark, service mark,
copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in
which our services are or may be made available online, regardless of our
continuous efforts to police and register our marks.  See, “Risk Factors —- Our success depends
on our ability to protect our intellectual property.”

We currently own
numerous Internet domains in the United States and abroad.  Domain names are generally regulated by
Internet regulatory bodies such as the World Intellectual Property
Organization.  The relationship between
trademark and unfair competition laws and domain name registration is
evolving.  The Anticybersquatting
Consumer Protection Act in the U.S. and the Uniform Domain Name Dispute
Resolution Policy of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
have both significantly enhanced the ability to deter the infringing
incorporation of trademarks into domain names by third parties and to assert
our registrations against them.  We
actively pursue significant infringers as appropriate, including cybersquatters
and typosquatters who misappropriate our service marks and misspellings thereof
as domain names, in order to maintain our famous marks and prevent the dilution
of their distinctiveness.  See, “Risk Factors — Our success depends
on our ability to protect our intellectual property.”

Governmental
Regulation

The services we provide
are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. For example, our
travel service is subject to laws governing the offer and/or sale of travel
services as well as laws requiring us to register as a “seller of travel.”  In addition, our services may be subject to
various state and local taxing regulations. 
See “Risk Factors — Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes”.

In addition, our business is indirectly affected by
regulatory and legal uncertainties affecting travel suppliers and global
distribution systems.  In 2004, the
Department of Transportation (the “DOT”) published a Final Rule, abolishing the
rules governing global distribution systems. 
As a part of the Final Rule, the DOT rejected proposals to regulate
online travel service providers’ fare displays. 
However, the DOT deferred consideration of a proposal to amend its
policies regarding advertising of air tickets, to require that agency service
fees be stated separately from the price being charged by the airlines.  Our current service fee disclosure practices
differ from those proposed by the DOT. 
If the DOT were to resume consideration of and adopt the service fee
proposal, we may have less flexibility regarding merchandising air travel on
our websites.

We are subject to federal, state and international laws that require
protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel
transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable
data, both in the United States and Europe. 
This data is increasingly subject to legislation and 


 13 






regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the
Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and
variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union.  Such government action is typically intended
to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and
transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.

Pricelinemortgage.com is
subject to laws governing the licensing and conduct of persons providing
mortgage brokerage services. Such laws typically require certain consumer
protection disclosures and loan solicitation procedures. For example, the Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act prohibits the payment and receipt of mortgage
loan referral fees, and permits persons to be compensated only for the fair
market value of non-referral services. Accordingly, pricelinemortgage.com’s
home financing service provides non-referral services such as website
development and advertising to a licensed mortgage broker who, in turn, provides
the back-end processing for loan referrals.

All of our services are
subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations
prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices.

We
are also subject to regulations applicable to businesses conducting online
commerce.  Presently, there are
relatively few laws specifically directed toward online services. However, due
to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, it is
possible that laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet
or online services. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as
online contracts, user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content
and quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property
rights and information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws
governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual
property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy is developing,
but any such new legislation could have significant implications on how we
conduct online business. In addition, some states may require us to qualify in
that state to do business as a foreign corporation because our service is
available in that state over the Internet. Although we are qualified to do
business in a number of states, failure to meet the qualifications of certain
states, or a determination that we are required to qualify in additional
states, could subject us to taxes and penalties.  See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and legal uncertainties
could harm our business,” and “Uncertainty
regarding state and local taxes.”

Our
European operations are subject to various foreign regulations and governing
bodies that might limit their products and services. They may be affected by
unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and various tariffs and trade
barriers in connection with online commerce. Any failure by our European
operations to comply may have an adverse effect on our business.

Seasonality

Prior
to introducing a retail travel option to our customers, substantially all of
our business was conducted under the Name Your Own Price® system and accordingly, because those services
are non-refundable in nature, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking
was generated.  However, we recognize
revenue generated from our retail hotel services, including our European
operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  As a result, a meaningful amount of retail
hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve
their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized until future
quarters. From a cost perspective, however, we expense the substantial majority
of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the
quarter in which bookings are generated. 
Therefore, as our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect our
quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors.


 14










 

Employees

As of February 15, 2007, we
employed approximately 696 full-time employees, of which 274 are based at our
Norwalk, Connecticut headquarters. We also retain independent contractors to
support our customer service and system support functions.

We
have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by any
collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to be
good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to
attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and
managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.

Item 1A.         Risk Factors

The following risk factors and other
information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered.  The risks and uncertainties described below
are not the only ones we face. 
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also
impair our business operations.  If any
of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results
and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.

Our European operations’ business model exposes us to certain risks
that we have not traditionally experienced in the hotel business.

Our European operations
distribute hotel rooms primarily through a retail model, whereby the customer
secures a reservation by providing credit card details, but we are not
compensated by the hotel property until such customer checks out of the hotel
property.  This requires our European operations
to pursue collection of commissions relating to hotel room reservations from
the hotel properties after the customer has completed his or her stay.  We do not have extensive experience in
collecting commissions from hotel properties and failure to sustain an adequate
collection rate could negatively impact the business of our European
operations.

Throughout 2006, our European operations grew
their gross bookings in excess of 100% on an annualized basis.  This growth rate has contributed
significantly to our growth in revenue, gross profit and earnings per
share.  We expect our European operations
to experience a significant decline in their growth rate in future years
because of the sheer size of their business (i.e., annualized growth rates are
expected to decline as performance is compared to stronger full-year 2006
results) and the competitiveness of the market. 
The expected decline in our European operations’ growth rate could have
a resulting negative impact on our future revenue and earnings per share growth
rates.

In addition, our European
operations rely heavily on various third parties to distribute hotel room
reservations, and our European operations’ distribution channels are
concentrated among a number of third parties. 
Should one or more of such third parties cease distribution of our
European operations’ reservations, or suffer deterioration in its search engine
ranking, due to changes in search engine algorithms or otherwise, the business
of our European operations could be negatively affected.  Similarly, a significant amount of our
European business is directed to our own websites through participation in
pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines whose pricing
and operating dynamics can experience rapid change both technically and
competitively.  We have experienced
increased competition and increased costs associated with our advertising
campaigns.  If a major search engine
changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a negative manner,
our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely
affected.


 15 






 

The strategy of our
European operations involves rapid expansion into other European countries,
many of which have different customs, different levels of customer acceptance
of the Internet and different legislation, regulatory environments and tax
schemes.  Compliance with foreign legal,
regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources,
and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal,
regulatory or tax consequences.  If our
European operations are unsuccessful in rapidly expanding into other European
countries, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be
adversely affected.

We are dependent on the airline industry and certain airlines.

Our financial prospects are
significantly dependent upon our sale of leisure airline tickets.  Leisure travel, including the sale of leisure
airline tickets, is dependent on personal discretionary spending levels. As a
result, sales of leisure airline tickets and other leisure travel services tend
to decline during general economic downturns and recessions. In addition,
unforeseen events, such as terrorist attacks, political instability, regional
hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or surcharges by
regulatory authorities, travel related accidents, travel related health
concerns and unusual weather patterns also may adversely affect the leisure
travel industry. As a result, our business also is likely to be affected by
those events. Further, work stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major
airlines could materially and adversely affect the airline industry and, as a
consequence, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

During the year ended
December 31, 2006, sales of airline tickets from our five largest and two
largest airline suppliers accounted for approximately 82.0% and 43.6% of total
airline tickets sold, respectively.  As a
result, we are currently substantially dependent upon the continued
participation of these airlines in priceline.com in order to maintain and
continue to grow our total gross profit.

Our arrangements with the
airlines that participate in our system — either Name Your Own Price® or
price-disclosed service — generally do not require the airlines to provide any
specific quantity of airline tickets or to make tickets available for any
particular route or at any particular price. 
During the course of our business, we are in continuous dialogue with
our major airline suppliers about the nature and extent of their participation
in our system. The significant reduction on the part of any of our major
suppliers of their participation in our system for a sustained period of time
or their complete withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  Moreover, the airline industry has
experienced a shift in market share from full-service carriers to low-cost
carriers that focus primarily on discount fares to leisure destinations and we
expect this trend to continue.  Some
low-cost carriers, such as Southwest and JetBlue, have not historically
distributed their tickets through us or other third-party intermediaries.  In addition, certain airlines have
significantly limited or eliminated sales of airline tickets through opaque
channels, preferring to consistently show the lowest available price on their
own website.  In addition, effective
January 1, 2007, Continental Airlines ceased participation in our airline
ticket service. If one or more participating airlines were to further limit or
eliminate discounting through opaque channels, it could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Due to our dependence on
the airline industry, we could be severely affected by changes in that
industry, and, in many cases, we will have no control over such changes or
their timing.  Several major U.S.
airlines are struggling financially and have either filed for reorganization
under the United States Bankruptcy Code or discussed publicly the risks of
bankruptcy.  Two of our largest airline
suppliers, Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines, are currently operating
under the protection of federal bankruptcy laws. If any of our suppliers currently
in bankruptcy liquidates or does not emerge from bankruptcy and we are unable
to replace such supplier as a participant in priceline.com, our business would
be adversely affected. In addition, in the event that another of our major
suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares bankruptcy and is subsequently
unable to successfully emerge from bankruptcy, 


 16 






and we are unable to replace such supplier, our
business would be adversely affected.  To
the extent other major U.S. airlines that participate in our system declare
bankruptcy, they may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their
flights. Our policy in such event would be to direct customers seeking a refund
or exchange to the airline, and not to provide a remedy ourselves. Because we
are the merchant-of-record on sales of Name
Your Own Price® airline tickets to
our customers, however, we could experience a significant increase in demands
for refunds or credit card charge backs from customers, which could materially
and adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, because
Name Your Own Price® customers do not choose the airlines on which
they are to fly, the bankruptcy of a major U.S. airline or even the possibility
of a major U.S. airline declaring bankruptcy could discourage customers from
using our Name Your Own Price® system to book airline tickets.

If one of our major airline
suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by, another company that
either does not participate in the priceline.com system or that participates on
substantially lower levels, the surviving company may elect not to participate
in our system or to participate at lower levels than the previous
supplier.  For example, in September
2005, US Airways and America West merged. 
US Airways was a meaningful participant in our Name Your Own Price® system, but America West participated on a
very limited basis.  The resulting entity
participates in our Name Your Own Price® system, but at much lower levels than US
Airways’ historical participation.  The
loss of any major airline participant in our Name
Your Own Price® system could result
in other major airlines electing to terminate their participation in the Name Your Own Price® system, which
would further negatively impact our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  In addition, fewer
independent suppliers reduces opacity and competition among suppliers.  In such event, if we are unable to divert sales
to other suppliers, our business, results of operations and financial condition
may be adversely affected.

In addition, given the
concentration of the airline industry, particularly in the domestic market, our
competitors could exert pressure on other airlines not to supply us with
tickets. Moreover, the airlines may attempt to establish their own buyer driven
commerce service or participate or invest in other similar services.

We are dependent on certain hotels.

Our financial prospects are
significantly dependent upon the facilitation of hotel room night reservations.  During the year ended December 31, 2006, Name Your Own Price® hotel room nights from our five largest hotel
suppliers accounted for approximately 34.2% of total Name Your Own Price® hotel room
nights sold.  As a result, we are
currently substantially dependent upon the continued participation of these
hotels in priceline.com’s hotel service in order to maintain and continue to
grow our total gross profit.

We currently have more than
40 national hotel chains participating in the Name
Your Own Price® system.  However, our arrangements with the hotels
that participate in our Name Your Own Price® system generally:

·                  do not require the hotels to make available to our customers any specific
quantity of hotel rooms;

·                  do not require the hotels to provide particular prices or levels of
discount; and

·                  do not require the hotels to deal exclusively with us in the public sale of
discounted hotel rooms.


 17 






 

As a general matter, during
the course of our business, we are in continuous dialogue with our major hotel
suppliers about the nature and extent of their participation in our
system.  Improving economic conditions
are creating increased demand for hotel rooms and some hotels may reduce the
amount of inventory they sell through our service or increase the negotiated rates
at which they are willing to provide inventory. 
If hotel occupancy rates improve to the point that our hotel suppliers
no longer place the same value on our distribution systems, such suppliers may
reduce the amount of inventory they make available through priceline.com and/or
our European operations.  The significant
reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their participation in
our system for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  Similarly, while
not dependent on certain hotel chains, the growth rates of our European
operations are dependent upon increasing levels of well-priced, demand-based
supply from their portfolio of hotel partners.

Many hotels use merchant
arrangements with companies like ours to dispose of excess hotel room inventory
at wholesale rates. If hotels experience increased demand for rooms, they might
reduce the amount of room inventory they make available through our merchant
price-disclosed hotel service.  The
recent improvement in occupancy rates discussed above could cause hotels to
reduce the amount of inventory they make available through our merchant price-disclosed
hotel service.

In addition, certain hotels
have begun initiatives to reduce margins received by third party intermediaries
on retail merchant transactions, which is the primary method we employ to
distribute retail hotel room reservations in the United States.  Many hotels distribute room inventory through
their own websites and therefore might increase negotiated rates for merchant
rate inventory sold through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service,
decreasing the margin available to us.  While
our merchant price-disclosed hotel agreements with our leading hotel suppliers
provide for specified discounts, if one or more participating hotels were to
require us to limit our merchant margins, upon contract renewal or otherwise,
it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition.

Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our
financial performance.

We compete with both online
and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services
we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch
new sites at a relatively low cost. In addition, the major online travel
companies with which we compete have significantly greater financial resources
and capital than we do.  We may not be
able to effectively compete with industry conglomerates such as Travelport,
Sabre or Expedia, each of which have access to significantly greater and more
diversified resources than we do.

We currently or potentially
compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With
respect to our travel services, these competitors include:

·                  Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are
owned by Expedia; Travelocity and lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre
Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, Gullivers.com, ebookers plc, octopustravel and
Flairview, which are currently owned by Travelport, a subsidiary of the
Blackstone Group, laterooms and hotelopia owned by First Choice plc, and
Superbreak, Venere, hotel.de and Hotel Reservation Service;

·                  travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car
companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive
business;

·                  large online portal and search companies, such as AOL (including AOL Travel),
Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel) and Google;


 18 






 

·                  traditional travel agencies;

·                  online travel search sites such as SideStep.com, Mobissimo.com,
FareChase.com, Kayak.com (sometimes referred to as “meta-search”) and travel
research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo
and Cheapflights.com; and

·                  operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo,
Worldspan, L.P., Amadeus and Sabre.

Many airline, hotel and
rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, are
focusing on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party
distributors such as us.  Certain
suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline
reservations through an online channel other than their own website.  Furthermore, many low cost airlines, which
are having increasing success in the marketplace, distribute their inventory
exclusively through their own websites. 
Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a
processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as bonus miles or
loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers
than models like ours.

We potentially face
competition from a number of large Internet companies and services that have
expertise in developing online commerce and in facilitating Internet traffic,
including Amazon.com, AOL, MSN, Google.com and Yahoo!, which compete with us
either directly or indirectly through affiliations with other e-commerce or
off-line companies.  We also compete with
“meta-search” companies, which are companies that leverage their search
technology to aggregate travel search results across supplier, travel agent and
other websites.  For example, Yahoo! owns
FareChase.com, a travel search-engine that searches for fares and hotel rates
at travel supplier and third-party websites, and refers traffic to those sites,
and AOL is party to a marketing and technology agreement, and holds a minority
interest in, Kayak.com, another leading meta-search company.  Other established search engine companies as
well as start-ups are attempting to enter the online travel marketplace in this
manner.  If Yahoo!, Google or other
portals decide to refer significant traffic to travel search engines, it could
result in more competition from supplier websites and higher customer
acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours.  Competition from these and other sources
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

Many of our current and
potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these
competitors may be able to secure products and services on more favorable terms
than we can. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly
greater resources to:

·                  marketing and promotional campaigns;

·                  attracting traffic to their websites;

·                  attracting and retaining key employees;

·                  securing vendors and inventory; and

·                  website and systems development.

Increased competition could
result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our
brand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully
against


 19 






 current and
future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our outstanding
convertible senior notes could result in substantial shareholder dilution.

Our convertible senior
notes are convertible into shares of our common stock if certain specified
conditions are met.  Upon conversion, the
holder will receive cash for the principal amount of the note and cash or
shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common
stock for the conversion value in excess of such principal amount.   If our stock trades above the conversion
prices of the outstanding convertible notes, our diluted share count will
increase by the net number of shares that would become issuable to the holders
of our outstanding convertible notes and, as a consequence, have a dilutive
impact on net income per share.  As an example, at stock prices of $40 per
share, $60 per share and $100 per share, our diluted share count would include
approximately 0.1 million, 4.8 million and 8.6 million equivalent shares,
respectively, related to the conversion premium on our convertible debt
(excluding the offsetting impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges).  We issued Conversion Spread Hedges that increase the
effective conversion price of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes from $40.38 to $50.47
per share, and reduce the dilution upon conversion of the 2011 Notes and the
2013 Notes.  Since the impact of the
Conversion Spread Hedges is anti-dilutive it is excluded from the calculation
of net income per share under GAAP until they are exercised upon maturity.

Our business could be negatively affected by changes in search engine
algorithms and dynamics.

We utilize Internet search
engines, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to
generate traffic to our websites.  Our
European operations, in particular, rely to a significant extent upon
third-party distribution partners that derive substantial business from search
engines.  Search engines frequently
update and change the logic which determines the placement and display of results
of a user’s search, such that the placement of links to our sites, and
particularly those of our European operations and their affiliates, can be
negatively affected.  In a similar way, a
significant amount of our European business is directed to our own websites
through participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search
engines whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change
commercially, technically and competitively. 
If a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that further
negatively affects the search engine ranking of our brands or our third-party
distribution partners or changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics
in a negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial
condition would be adversely affected.

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

As a result of our
acquisitions of our European operations, we are conducting a significant and
growing portion of our business outside the United States and are reporting our
results in U.S. dollars.  As a result, we
face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates.  The results of operations of our European
operations are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial
results of our European operations are translated from local currency into U.S.
dollars upon consolidation.  If the U.S.
dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these
foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net
revenues, operating expenses, and net income or loss.  Similarly, our net assets, net revenues,
operating expenses, and net income or loss will decrease if the U.S. dollar
strengthens against local currency. Additionally, transactions denominated in currencies
other than the functional currency may result in gains and losses that may
adversely impact our results of operations.


 20 






 

We may lose or be subject to reduction of
global distribution system fees.

We rely on fees paid to us by
Worldspan, L.P. and other global distribution systems, or GDSs, for travel
bookings made through GDSs for a portion of our gross profit and a substantial
portion of our operating income. We rebate certain GDS costs to certain
suppliers (e.g., airlines, hotels, etc.) in exchange for contractual
considerations such as those relating to pricing and availability, and expect
to continue to do so in the future. 
During 2006, most agreements between GDSs and the major domestic
airlines expired, and most airlines have negotiated new agreements with reduced
distribution costs for the airlines that went into effect September 1,
2006.  The structure of these new
agreements, along with airline pressure on us to operate under the new structures,
require us to reduce our aggregate compensation and book through lower cost
channels to receive airlines’ full content and avoid airline service fees.  We have entered into new agreements with a
number of airlines to obtain access to airline content, and are in continuing
discussions with others to obtain similar access.  If we were denied access to airlines’ full
content or had to impose service fees on our airline tickets, it could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

Additionally, some travel
suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to
develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct
connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution
methods recently developed by new entrants to the global distribution
marketplace, such as G2 Switchworks Corp. 
Such new entrants propose using technology that is less complex than
traditional global distribution systems, and that enables the distribution of
airline tickets in a manner that is more cost-effective to the airline
suppliers.  To this end, in the first
quarter 2006, we entered into an agreement with G2 Switchworks for the
provision of GDS services.  In addition,
to further reduce our dependence on Worldspan, L.P., in the first quarter 2006,
we entered into an agreement for the provision of GDS services with Sabre
Inc.  Development of the technology to
connect to such alternative GDSs, or to enable direct connections to travel
suppliers, requires the use of information technology resources and could cause
us to incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of
system problems and delay other projects. 
Furthermore, our contractual obligations to Worldspan, L.P. may limit
our ability to pursue the most financially attractive GDS options during the
term of our agreement with Worldspan, L.P., which expires on December 31, 2007.

We recently began utilizing
the services of both G2 Switchworks and Sabre Inc. to search for and book some
of the airline tickets we make available to consumers.  We believe that this arrangement provides us
with the opportunity to access favorable GDS economics with respect to a
certain portion of our airline ticket business. 
As discussed above, G2 Switchworks is a new entrant to the GDS
marketplace and receives its search technology from ITA Software, a third
party.  If our access to G2 Switchworks
search services becomes limited or unavailable due to technical problems on the
part of G2 Switchworks, issues between G2 Switchworks and ITA, or any other
reason beyond our control, we would not be able to utilize our most efficient
channel for those airline ticket bookings, and our business, results of
operations and financial condition could suffer.

Our ability to satisfy customers may be adversely affected by a number
of factors outside our control.

Most of our revenue is
derived from the leisure travel industry, and is, therefore, subject to
increase and decrease with the level of activity in the leisure travel
industry, a factor almost entirely out of our control.  The travel industry is seasonal and our
revenue varies significantly from quarter to quarter. Factors that may
adversely affect leisure travel activity include, without limitation,  economic downturns and recessions; global
security issues, political instability, acts of terrorism, civil unrest,
hostilities and war; increased fuel costs; increased airport security that
could reduce the convenience of air travel; inclement weather or natural
disaster such as hurricane, tsunami or earthquake; increased occurrence of,


 21 






or widely publicized travel-related accidents; the
outbreak of an epidemic or pandemic such as SARS or avian bird flu; and the
financial condition of travel suppliers.

If we lose our key personnel or cannot recruit additional personnel,
our business may suffer.

We depend on the continued
services and performance of our executive officers and other key personnel,
both in the United States and Europe. These individuals have acquired
specialized knowledge and skills with respect to priceline.com and our domestic
and European operations. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies.
Our ability to retain key employees could be materially adversely affected by
the decline in the market price of our common stock, limitations on our ability
to pay cash compensation that is equivalent to cash paid by traditional
businesses or, in some instances, larger or better capitalized competitors, and
limitations imposed by our employee benefit plans on our ability to issue
additional equity incentives. If we do not succeed in attracting new employees
or retaining and motivating current and future employees or executive officers,
our business could suffer significantly.

Defending against intellectual property claims could be expensive and
disruptive to our business.

From time to time, in the
ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to, and are currently
subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property
rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert
intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims, against us,
particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business.  We endeavor to defend our intellectual
property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely
expensive and time consuming, and has and is likely to continue to divert
managerial attention and resources from our business objectives.  Successful infringement claims against us
could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our
business, or portions of our business. 
In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to
use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be
expensive to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether.  Any of these events could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties.

As part of our business
strategy, in September 2004, we acquired Booking.com Limited (formerly known as
Active Hotels Ltd.) and, in July 2005, Booking.com B.V. (formerly known as
Bookings.com B.V.).  We may enter into
additional business combinations and acquisitions in the future.  Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances
of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and
amortization of expenses related to intangible assets acquired.  In addition, the process of integrating an
acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating
difficulties and expenditures.  The
acquisitions of Booking.com
B.V. and Booking.com Limited were accompanied
by a number of risks, including, without limitation:

·                  the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies
appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the
acquisitions may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies;

·                  the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of Booking.com
Limited and Booking.com B.V., which are
principally located in Cambridge, England, and Amsterdam, The Netherlands,
respectively, with and into our operations, which are headquartered in Norwalk,
Connecticut;

·                  the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of
management;


 22










·                  the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our
services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration;

·                  the failure to further successfully develop acquired technology resulting
in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets;

·                  the impairment of relationships with customers of Booking.com
B.V. and Booking.com Limited or our own
customers as a result of any integration of operations;

·                  the impairment of relationships with employees of Booking.com
B.V. and Booking.com Limited or our own
business as a result of any integration of new management personnel;

·                  the potential unknown liabilities associated with Booking.com
B.V. and Booking.com Limited.

We may experience similar
risks in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not be successful in
addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the
acquisitions of Booking.com
B.V. and Booking.com Limited or that we could
encounter in future acquisitions, which would harm our business or cause us to
fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions.  As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately
$334 million assigned primarily to the intangible assets and goodwill of Booking.com
B.V. and Booking.com Limited, and therefore,
the occurrence of any of the aforementioned risks could result in a material
adverse impact, including a material impairment of these assets, which could
cause us to have to write-down goodwill. 
Any such write-down of goodwill could adversely impact our operating
results, which would cause our stock price to decline significantly.

Our growth cannot be assured. Even if we do experience growth, we
cannot assure you that we will grow profitably.

Our business strategies are
dependent on the growth of our business. For us to achieve significant growth,
consumers and travel suppliers must continue to accept our website as a
valuable commercial tool. Consumers who have historically purchased travel
services using traditional commercial channels, such as local travel agents and
calling suppliers directly, must instead purchase these services on our
website. Similarly, travel suppliers will also need to accept or expand their
use of our website and view our website as an efficient and profitable channel of
distribution for their travel products. Our ability to enhance awareness of the
priceline.com brands and offer services that will attract and retain a
significant number of new consumers and travel suppliers is not certain, and
therefore, our growth may be limited.

We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other
changes.

The markets in which we
compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry
standards, consolidation, frequent new service and product announcements,
introductions and enhancements and changing consumer demands. We may not be
able to keep up with these rapid changes. In addition, these market
characteristics are heightened by the emerging nature of the Internet and the
apparent need of companies from many industries to offer Internet based
products and services. As a result, our future success will depend on our
ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to
evolving industry standards and to continually improve the performance,
features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service and
product offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In addition, the
widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications
technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur
substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure.


 23 






 

External or internal security breaches could harm our business.

The secure transmission of
confidential information over the Internet is essential in maintaining consumer
and supplier confidence in the priceline.com services. Substantial or ongoing
security breaches whether instigated internally or externally on our system or
other Internet based systems could significantly harm our business. We
currently require customers who use certain of our services to guarantee their
offers with their credit card, either online or, in some instances, through our
toll-free telephone service. It is possible that advances in computer
circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result
in a compromise or breach of customer transaction data.

We incur substantial
expense to protect against and remedy security breaches and their consequences.
However, we cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent security
breaches. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third
party) that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal customer
information or transaction data, proprietary information or cause significant
interruptions in our operations. For instance, several major websites have
experienced significant interruptions as a result of improper direction of
excess traffic to those sites, and computer viruses have substantially
disrupted e-mail and other functionality in a number of countries, including
the United States. Security breaches also could damage our reputation and
expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Security
breaches could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence
in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our
brand.  Our insurance policies carry low
coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by
security breaches.

Companies that we have
acquired, such as our European operations, and that we may acquire in the
future, may employ security and networking standards at levels we find
unsatisfactory.  The process of enhancing
infrastructure to attain improved security and network standards may be time
consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are
difficult to obtain.  Such acquisitions
increase the number of potential vulnerabilities, and can cause delays in detection
of an attack, as well as the timelines of recovery from any given attack.
Failure to raise any such standards that we find unsatisfactory could expose us
to security breaches that would have an adverse impact on our business, results
of operations and financial condition.

We also face risks
associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business
over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy
on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth
of the Internet and, therefore, the priceline.com service as a means of
conducting commercial transactions. 
Additionally, security breaches at the third-party, supplier or
distributor systems upon which we rely could result in negative publicity.

Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give
rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal
requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights.

In our processing of travel
transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable
data.  This data is increasingly subject
to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world,
including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection
Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European
Union.  This government action is
typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected,
processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.  We could be adversely affected if legislation
or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if
governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations
in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition.


 24 






 

In addition, in the
aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States,
government agencies have been contemplating or developing initiatives to
enhance national and aviation security, including the Transportation Security
Administration’s Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System, known as
CAPPS II.  These initiatives may result
in conflicting legal requirements with respect to data handling.  As privacy and data protection has become a
more sensitive issue, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a
result of differing views on the privacy of travel data.  Travel businesses have also been subjected to
investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper
disclosure of passenger information. 
These and other privacy developments that are difficult to anticipate
could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

We rely on the value of the priceline.com and Booking.com brands, and
the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing.

We believe that maintaining
and expanding the priceline.com brand, and other owned brands, including
Lowestfare.com, Rentalcars.com, Breezenet.com, MyTravelGuide.com, Travelweb, Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited, are important aspects of our efforts to attract and
expand our user and advertiser base.  As
our larger competitors spend increasingly more on advertising, we are required
to spend more in order to maintain our brand recognition.  Promotion of the priceline.com brand will
depend largely on our success in satisfying our customers. In addition, we have
spent considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and
maintenance of the priceline.com brands, and we will continue to spend money
on, and devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand building
efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of the priceline.com brands.
We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of
the priceline.com brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding
efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain
or enhance customer awareness of the priceline.com brands in a cost-effective
manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be
adversely affected.

We may be
unable to generate sufficient cash to repay or repurchase our $570 million
Convertible Senior Notes.

As of December 31, 2006, we have $570 million of Convertible Senior
Notes outstanding comprised of 2006 1% Notes with an aggregate principal amount
of $125 million, 2006 2.25% Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $100
million, 2011 Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $172.5 million and
2013 Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $172.5 million (collectively,
the “Notes”).  The holders of the 2006 1%
Notes may require us to repurchase the notes on August 1, 2008, the holders of
the 2006 2.25% Notes may require us to repurchase the notes on January 15,
2010, 2015 or 2020, and the holders of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes may
require us to repurchase the notes upon certain designated events.  The
Notes also become convertible if certain specified conditions are met,
including if our stock price exceeds contingent conversion levels for a
specified period.  Subsequent to December
31, 2006, the closing price of our common stock has exceeded the contingent
conversion prices for our notes. 
 If the closing price exceeds the contingent conversion prices for
20 days in the specified conversion periods some or all of the convertible
notes would become convertible at the holder’s option requiring us to classify
the related outstanding debt balance as a current liability in our consolidated
balance sheet.  We believe it is highly
unlikely that a significant portion of the Notes would be converted prior to
maturity because the market value of the Notes exceeds the value that holders
of the Notes would receive upon conversion.  However, if holders elect to
convert, we would be required to settle the principal amount of the Notes in
cash and the conversion premium in cash or shares of common stock.  We would likely fund the repayment with
existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, common stock
issuances and/or additional borrowings. It is possible that we may not have
sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing which
would cause us to be in default under our indentures and our business, results
of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.


 25 






 

Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual
property.

We regard our intellectual
property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and
patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our
proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual
property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

While we believe that our
issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business,
there can be no assurance that:

·                  any patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third
parties;

·                  pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents;

·                  competitors or potential competitors of priceline.com will not devise new
methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent
applications;

·                  because of variations in the application of our business model to each of
our services, our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third
parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in
one or more categories;

·                  new prior art will not be discovered which may diminish the value of or
invalidate an issued patent;

·                  a third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that prevent us
from practicing features of our business or require us to pay for a license to
use those features; or

·                  our operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of
third parties.

There has been recent
discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called “business
method” patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has
indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable to such
patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a direct
effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any,
the new review process will have on our pending patent applications.

We pursue the registration
of our trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However,
effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may
not be available in every country in which our services are made available
online. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future,
certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material,
to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the
value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation.

Our business is dependent upon third party systems and service
providers.

We rely on certain third
party computer systems and third party service providers, including the
computerized central reservation systems of the airline, hotel and rental car
industries to satisfy demand for airline tickets, hotel room and rental car
reservations. In particular, our travel business is substantially dependent
upon the computerized reservation systems of operators of global distribution
systems for the travel industry. Any interruption in these third party services
systems or deterioration in their performance


 26 






 

could prevent us from booking airline, hotel and
rental car reservations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our
agreements with some third party service providers are terminable upon short
notice and often do not provide recourse for service interruptions. In the
event our arrangement with any of such third parties is terminated, we may not
be able to find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or
on commercially reasonable terms and, as a result, it could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

A substantial portion of
our computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at the
facilities of SAVVIS in New Jersey, AT&T in New York City, IX EUROPE in
London, England, TrueServer BV and Redbus Interhouse in the Netherlands.  If SAVVIS is, for any reason, unable to
support our website, we would need to quickly complete the activation of our
secondary site at the AT&T web hosting facility.  Any of these conditions could cause
disruptions to our business or exposure to potentially damaging press coverage
of the problems, and would have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations, and financial condition.

Our communications
infrastructure and, in some cases, the electrical power supply for our
production systems, is provided by vendors such as AT&T, Verizon, IX
EUROPE, Verizon Business B.V., TrueServer BV and MCI.  If they are unable, for any reason, to
support the communications infrastructure and electrical power they provide us,
instabilities in our systems could increase until such time as we were able to
replace their services.

While we do maintain
redundant systems and hosting services for some of our business, it is possible
that we could experience an interruption in our business, and we do not carry
business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may
occur.

Capacity constraints and system failures could harm our business.

We rely on supplier and
distribution systems, including those of Worldspan, L.P., Pegasus Solutions,
Sabre Inc., G2 Switchworks Corp., ITA and Navitaire.  If any of these systems becomes inaccessible,
or partially inaccessible to us, due to system failure or otherwise, for any
significant amount of time, our ability to process reservations could be
adversely affected, in which case our results would suffer.  We also depend upon Paymentech to process our
credit card transactions. If Paymentech was wholly or partially compromised,
our cash flows could be disrupted until such a time as a replacement process
could be put in place with a different vendor. 
As we add complexity to our systems infrastructure by adding new
supplier and distribution, our total system availability could decline and our
results could suffer.

A substantial amount of our
computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at the
facilities of SAVVIS in New Jersey, AT&T in New York City, IX EUROPE in
London, England, TrueServer BV and Redbus Interhouse in the Netherlands. These
systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human
error, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar
events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of
vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite any precautions we may take, the
occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at the SAVVIS
facility, the AT&T facility, the IX EUROPE facility or the Redbus
Interhouse facility could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. In
addition, the failure by SAVVIS, Verizon, AT&T, IX EUROPE, Verizon Business
B.V. or TrueServer BV to provide our required data communications capacity
could result in interruptions in our service. Any system failure that causes an
interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of the priceline.com
service could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.


 27 






 

If our systems cannot be
expanded to cope with increased demand or fails to perform, we could
experience:

·                  unanticipated disruptions in service;

·                  slower response times;

·                  decreased customer service and customer satisfaction; or

·                  delays in the introduction of new products and services,

any of which could impair our reputation, damage the
priceline.com brand and materially and adversely affect our revenues. Publicity
about a service disruption also could cause a material decline in our stock
price.

Like many online
businesses, we have experienced system failures from time to time. For example,
in May 2001, our primary website was interrupted for a period of 12 hours. In
addition to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, these outages
create a significant amount of user questions and complaints that need to be
addressed by our customer support personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in
our service could result in an immediate loss of revenues that can be
substantial and may cause some users to switch to our competitors. If we
experience frequent or persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could
be permanently harmed. We have been taking steps to increase the reliability
and redundancy of our system. These steps are expensive, may reduce our margins
and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled
downtime.

We use both internally
developed systems and third-party systems to operate the priceline.com service,
including transaction processing, order management and financial systems that
were designed to be scaleable and stable. However, if the number of users of our
services increases substantially, or if critical third-party systems stop
operating as designed, we will need to significantly expand and upgrade our
technology, transaction processing systems, financial systems and other
infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be able to upgrade our systems
and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions in a timely manner.

Companies that we have
acquired, such as our European operations, and that we may acquire in the
future, may present known or unknown capacity/stability or other types of
system challenges.  The process of
enhancing infrastructure to attain improved capacity/scalability and other
system characteristics may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources
and expertise that are difficult to obtain. 
Such acquisitions increase potential downtime, customer facing problems
and compliance problems.  Failure to
successfully make any such improvements to such infrastructures could expose us
to potential capacity, stability, and system problems that would have an
adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We recently integrated our
entire European hotel offerings into a single back-office extranet system
operated by Booking.com B.V., in order to allow customers of both Booking.com
B.V. and Booking.com Limited to access hotels which may have previously been
available only through either Booking.com B.V. or Booking.com Limited.  Because all of our European operations’ hotel
offerings are therefore on one platform, in the event that the extranet
operated by Booking.com B.V. experiences a system failure, our European
operations could be unable to generate hotel bookings, which would have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, in the second quarter of 2006,
we started to implement a new financial accounting system at Booking.com B.V.,
which is expected to improve efficiency and support growth.  The financial accounting system is new to


 28 






 

us, however, and could
present unforeseen technical or other issues, including without limitation,
systems failures, any of which would place further demands on our European
technology and business resources and could adversely impact our European
operations.

Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes.

We file tax returns in such
states as required by law based on principles applicable to traditional
businesses. In addition, we pay sales and other taxes, including hotel
occupancy taxes, to suppliers related to travel services sold through the
priceline.com service.  We believe that
this practice is consistent with the tax laws of all jurisdictions. On an
ongoing basis, we conduct a review and interpretation of the tax laws in
various states and other jurisdictions relating to the payment of state and
local hotel occupancy and other related taxes. 
In connection with our review, we have met and had discussions with
taxing authorities in certain jurisdictions but the ultimate resolution in any
particular jurisdiction cannot be determined at this time.  Currently, hotels collect and remit hotel
occupancy and related taxes to the various tax authorities based on the amounts
collected by the hotels. Consistent with this practice, we recover the taxes on
the underlying cost of the hotel room night from customers and pay that amount
to the hotel operators for payment to the appropriate tax authorities.  As discussed in Note 19 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements, several jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits indicating
the position that sales or hotel occupancy tax is applicable to the
differential between the price paid by a customer utilizing our service and the
cost of the underlying room. Historically, we have not collected taxes on this
differential. Additional state and local jurisdictions could assert that we are
subject to sales or hotel occupancy taxes on this differential and could seek
to collect such taxes, either retroactively or prospectively or both. A number
of proposals have been made at state and local levels that could impose
additional taxes on the sale of products and services through the Internet or
the income derived from these sales. Such actions may result in substantial tax
liabilities for past and/or future sales and could have a material adverse
effect on our business and results of operations. To the extent that any tax
authority succeeds in asserting that any such tax collection responsibility
exists, it is likely that, with respect to future transactions, we would
collect any such additional tax obligation from our customers, which would have
the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room nights to our customers and,
consequently, could reduce our hotel sales. We will continue to assess the
risks of the potential financial impact of additional tax exposure, and to the
extent appropriate, we will reserve for those estimated liabilities.

Current economic conditions
in the United States are triggering active consideration on ways to generate
additional tax revenues by the federal, state and local governments. We cannot
predict what changes in tax law or interpretations of such laws may be adopted
or assure that such changes or interpretations would not materially impact our
business.

Our business is exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and
charge backs.

To date, our results have
been negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards.
Because we act as the merchant-of-record in a majority of our transactions, we
may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our website as well
as other payment disputes with our customers. Additionally, we are held liable
for accepting fraudulent credit cards in certain retail transactions when we do
not act as merchant of record. 
Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting
credit card charge backs.  If we are
unable to combat the use of fraudulent credit cards on our website, our
business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially
adversely affected.


 29 






 

Fluctuations in our financial results make
quarterly comparisons and financial forecasting difficult.

Our revenues and operating results
have varied significantly from quarter to quarter because our business
experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect seasonal trends for the travel
services offered by our websites. Traditional leisure travel bookings in the
United States are higher in the second and third calendar quarters of the year
as consumers take spring and summer vacations. In the first and fourth quarters
of the calendar year, demand for travel services in the United States generally
declines and the number of bookings flattens. 
Travel revenues in Europe, on the other hand, have been higher in the
third and fourth quarters than in the first and second quarters.  Furthermore, prior to introducing a retail
travel option to our customers, substantially all of our business was conducted
under the Name Your Own Price® system and accordingly, because those services
are non-refundable in nature, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking
was generated.  We recognize revenue
generated from our retail hotel service, however, including our European
operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  As a result, we have seen and expect to
continue to see, that a meaningful amount of retail hotel bookings generated
earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer
vacations, will not be recognized until future quarters.  This could result in a disproportionate
amount of our annual earnings being recognized in later quarters.

Our results may also be
affected by seasonal fluctuations in the inventory made available to us by
airlines, hotels and rental car suppliers. Our revenues and operating results
may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of these
factors. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and
operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, due to our limited
operating history, a relatively new and unproven business model and an uncertain
environment in the travel industry, it may be difficult to predict our future
revenues or results of operations.

Because of these
fluctuations and uncertainties, our operating results may fail to meet the
expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading
price of our common stock would almost certainly be materially adversely
affected.

Our financial results will be materially impacted by income taxes in
the future.

We commenced recording a
U.S. tax provision in the third quarter of 2005 upon recording the reversal of
a portion of our valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets.  This non-cash provision will materially
negatively impact future net income and earnings per share as compared to prior
periods.  Due to our significant net
operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to pay cash taxes on our U.S.
federal taxable income tax for the foreseeable future.  We expect to make cash payments for U.S.
alternative minimum tax and for certain international taxes.

Our stock price is highly volatile.

The market price of our
common stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide
fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are
beyond our control:

·                  quarterly variations in our operating results;

·                  operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts
and investors;

·                  changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including
financial estimates by securities analysts and investors;


 30










·                  changes in our capital structure;

·                  changes in market valuations of other Internet or online service companies;

·                  announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our
competitors;

·                  announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts,
acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;

·                  loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or hotel chain;

·                  changes in the status of our intellectual property rights;

·                  lack of success in the expansion of our business model geographically;

·                  announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against
us or adverse developments in pending proceedings;

·                  additions or departures of key personnel; and

·                  stock market price and volume fluctuations.

Sales of a substantial
number of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of
our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. Given
the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market
price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, fluctuations
in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock
attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds
into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either
direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis.

The trading prices of
Internet company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme
price and volume fluctuations. To the extent that the public’s perception of
the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies is negative, our stock price
could decline further, regardless of our results. Other broad market and
industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless
of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political
and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate
fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock.  Negative market conditions could adversely
affect our ability to raise additional capital.

We are defendants in a
number of securities class action litigations. In the past, securities class
action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of
volatility in the market price of its securities. To the extent our stock price
declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional
litigation. This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and
divert management’s attention and resources.

We are party to legal proceedings which, if adversely decided, could
materially adversely affect us.

We are a party to the legal
proceedings described in Item 3 and Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements.  The defense of the actions
described in Item 3 and Note 19 may increase our 


 31 






expenses and an adverse outcome in
any of such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.

Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business.

The products and services we offer
through the priceline.com service are regulated by federal and state
governments. Our ability to provide such products and services is and will
continue to be affected by such regulations. The implementation of unfavorable
regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or
regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause
the development of the affected markets to become impractical and otherwise
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  See “Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes.”

Item 1B