Item 1A of this Annual Report; therefore, actual results
may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such
forward-looking statements.

 

Expressions
of future goals, expectations and similar expressions including, without
limitation, “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,”
“intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” “targets,” or “continue,”
reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify
forward-looking statements.  The
following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ
materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: adverse
changes in general market conditions for leisure and other travel products as
the result of, among other things, terrorist attacks or war; adverse changes in
our relationships with airlines, hotels and other product and service providers
including, without limitation, the withdrawal of suppliers from the
priceline.com system, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major domestic airline;
the effects of increased competition; systems-related failures and/or security
breaches; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; losses by us
and our licensees; any adverse impact from negative publicity and negative
customer reaction to such publicity; legal and regulatory risks and the ability
to attract and retain qualified personnel. 
These factors and others are described in more detail below in Item 1A
entitled “Risk Factors.”  Unless required
by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise.  However, readers should
carefully review the reports and documents we file from time to time with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly the Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.

 

PART I

 

Item 1.  Business

 

General

 

We
are a leading online travel company that offers our customers a broad range of
travel services, including airline tickets, hotel rooms, car rentals, vacation
packages and cruises.  We offer our
customers a unique choice: the ability to purchase travel services in a
traditional, price-disclosed manner or the opportunity to use our unique Name Your Own Price® service, which allows our
customers to make offers for travel services at discounted prices.  At present, we derive substantially all of
our revenues from the following sources:

 

•                              Transaction revenues from
our Name Your Own Price® airline
ticket, hotel room and rental car services, as well as our vacation packages
service;

 

•                              Commissions earned from the
sale of price-disclosed hotel rooms, rental cars, cruises and other travel
services;

 

•                              Customer processing fees
charged in connection with the sale of both Name
Your Own Price®
and price-disclosed airline tickets, hotel rooms and rental cars service;

 

•                              Worldspan, L.P. reservation
booking fees related to both our Name Your
Own Price®
airline ticket, hotel room and rental car service, and price-disclosed airline
tickets and rental car service;

 

•                              Transaction revenue from our
price-disclosed hotel room service; and

 

3












 

•                              Other revenues derived primarily
from selling advertising on our websites.

 

For
the year ended December 31, 2005, we had revenues of approximately $963 million
comprised of “merchant” revenue, “agency” revenue and “other” revenue.  Merchant revenues are derived from
transactions where we are the merchant of record and are responsible for, among
other things, collecting receipts from our customers, remitting payments to our
suppliers and establishing the selling price of the services that we offer.  Merchant revenues, which represented the
substantial majority of our total revenues in 2005, consisted of: (1) transaction
revenues representing the selling price of Name
Your Own Price® airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars
and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing
the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in
connection with the hotel rooms provided through our merchant price-disclosed
hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale
of Name Your Own Price®
airline tickets, hotel rooms and rental cars and merchant price-disclosed hotels;
and (4) ancillary fees, including Worldspan, L.P. reservation booking fees
related to certain of the aforementioned transactions.  Agency revenues are generally derived from
retail travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and
where the prices of our services are determined by third parties. Agency
revenues consisted primarily of: (1) travel commissions; (2) customer
processing fees; and (3) Worldspan, L.P. reservation booking fees related to
certain of the aforementioned transactions. 
Other revenues consisted primarily of revenue from advertising on our
websites.

 

Priceline.com
was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted
into a Delaware corporation in July 1998. 
Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market under the
symbol “PCLN.”  Our principal executive
offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.

 

The
priceline.com Business Model

 

Name Your Own Price®.  We have developed a unique pricing system
known as a “demand collection system” that uses the information sharing and
communications power of the Internet to create a new way of pricing products
and services.  We believe we have created
a balance between the interests of buyers, who are willing to accept trade-offs
in order to save money, and sellers, who are prepared to generate incremental
revenue by selling their products at below retail prices, provided that they
can do so without disrupting their existing distribution channels or retail
pricing structures.  Our demand
collection system allows consumers to specify the price they are prepared to
pay when submitting an offer for a particular leisure travel service within a
specified range of substitutability.  We
then access databases in which participating suppliers file secure discounted
rates not generally available to the public, to determine whether we can
fulfill the customer’s offer and then decide whether we want to accept the
offer at the price designated by the consumer. 
For most of these transactions, we establish the price we will accept
for our services, have discretion in supplier selection and are the merchant of
record in the transaction.  Consumers
agree to hold their offers open for a specified period of time (generally, not
longer than one minute) to enable us to determine whether we can or want to
accept the offer.  Once fulfilled, offers
generally cannot be canceled – thereby making purchases by our customers
generally non-refundable.  This system
uses the flexibility of buyers to enable sellers to accept a lower price in
order to sell their excess inventory or capacity.  We believe that our demand collection system
addresses limitations inherent in traditional seller-driven pricing mechanisms
in a manner that offers substantial benefits to both buyers and sellers.  We believe that the principal advantages of
our system include the following:

 

•                  Cost Savings.  Our Name
Your Own Price®
demand collection system allows consumers to save money in a simple and
compelling way.  Buyers effectively trade
off flexibility about brands, product features and/or sellers in return for
prices that are lower than those that can be obtained at that time through
traditional retail distribution channels.

 

4












 

•                  Incremental Revenue for Sellers.  Sellers use our Name Your Own Price® demand collection system as a revenue management tool to
generate incremental revenue without disrupting their existing distribution
channels or retail pricing structures. 
We require consumers to be flexible with respect to brands and product
features.  As a result, our Name Your Own Price® system does not reveal
sellers’ brands to customers prior to the consummation of a transaction,
thereby protecting their brand integrity. 
This shielding of brand identity and price enables sellers to sell
products and services at discounted prices without cannibalizing their own
retail sales by publicly announcing discount prices and without competing
against their own distributors.

 

•                  Proprietary Seller Networks.  We have assembled proprietary networks of
industry leading sellers that represent high quality brands.  By establishing attractive networks of seller
participants with reputations for quality, scale and national presence, we
believe that we foster increased participation by both buyers and sellers.

 

We often refer to products offered through our Name Your Own Price® service as “opaque” products
because all aspects of the travel service are not visible to the consumer
before making an offer.

 

Price-Disclosed Retail Services.  We also offer customers the ability to purchase price-disclosed travel services
at retail prices, including airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental car days,
vacations packages, destination services and cruises.  We introduced the following price-disclosed
services gradually over the past two and a half years:

 

•                  In the fourth quarter of 2003, we began
offering customers the ability to purchase airline tickets at disclosed, retail
prices;

•                  In
the second quarter of 2004, we acquired Travelweb LLC (“Travelweb”), which
allowed us to offer customers a price-disclosed hotel service on our website,
www.lowestfare.com;

•                  In
the second quarter of 2004, we implemented a new feature on our vacation
packages service that allows customers to choose between an “opaque” or a
disclosed flight itinerary;

•                  In
the fourth quarter of 2004, we launched a search and booking engine on
priceline.com to allow customers to choose between a Name Your Own Price® or a price-disclosed rental car offering; and

•                  In
the first quarter of 2005, we began offering price-disclosed hotel rooms on our
website, www.priceline.com.

 

In the first quarter of 2006, we introduced More Ways to
Save on the priceline.com website. 
More Ways to Save is a unique travel
shopping format that provides retail, price-disclosed travel options matching
the itinerary criteria requested by the customer, accompanied with money saving
alternatives, including our Name Your Own
Price®
service, packaging options, and alternative itinerary options such as different
dates or airports.  We have also
introduced “PriceBreakersSM” which is a presentation
of selected travel itineraries at discounted prices that is updated daily.

 

We
believe that the combination of our Name
Your Own Price® model and our retail price-disclosed
model allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious
travelers, while providing us with diverse streams of revenue.

 

We
also offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel service in Europe through our
European operations, which we have developed through two recent
acquisitions.  In September
2004, we acquired Active Hotels Ltd. (“Active Hotels”), a United Kingdom based
Internet hotel reservation distributor. Furthermore,
in July 2005, we acquired Amsterdam-based Bookings B.V. (“Bookings”), one of
Europe’s leading Internet hotel reservation services, with offices primarily in
Amsterdam, Barcelona, Berlin, Loule, Paris, Rome and Pisa.  All of our European operations, including
Active Hotels and Bookings, are

 

5












 

majority-owned by us.  We work with almost 20,000 chain-owned and
independently owned hotels throughout Europe offering hotel reservations on
various websites and in multiple languages.  For geographic related
information, see Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

The
priceline.com Strategy

 

The online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide
growth as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to
interactive online channels. 
Priceline.com has been a leader in the deep discount segment of this
market and, in the last two years, has embarked on a strategy to participate
more broadly in online travel growth by expanding its service offerings and
markets.

 

•                  Expand Service Offerings.  In 2003, we began to execute a plan to
broaden our array of service offerings beyond our Name Your Own Price® services. 
Specifically, we have expended significant resources to allow us to
introduce price-disclosed retail services to our consumers to compliment our
existing Name Your Own Price® service.  We believe that by offering a “one-stop-shopping”
solution to our customers, we can simultaneously fulfill the needs of those
customers who are prepared to accept the unique restrictions of our Name Your Own Price® service in exchange for
receiving significant savings relative to retail prices, as well as those
customers who are less price sensitive and require the certainty of knowing the
full details of their travel itinerary prior to purchasing.  We believe that our evolution to a “one-stop-shopping”
website allows us to more fully participate in the overall growth of the online
travel category.

 

•                  Offer More Ways to
Save.  Through the
www.priceline.com website, we offer our customers the unique ability to shop
and book price-disclosed or Name Your Own
Price®
travel services in a single, integrated display.  We are continuously improving the integration
and display of these two services so that our customers can quickly and easily
find the way to save that is best suited for each trip they take, while
maximizing user conversion and profitability. 
In addition to our Name Your Own
Price® service, we offer additional money saving
alternatives, such as alternative airports or dates and discounted packaged
travel.  We intend to develop new money
saving features for many of our services.

 

•                  Enhance Service Offerings.  We intend to continually enhance our service
offerings, particularly our more recently introduced retail offerings, by
adding competitive functionality, adding competitive inventory at competitive
pricing, adding and improving the content and merchandising on our website as
well as cross-sell opportunities to maximize customer conversion.

 

•                  Competitive functionality: We continue to
expend significant resources to remain competitive in terms of the features and
functionality we offer our customers. 
For example, since launching our retail air service two years ago, we
have added the ability to search for flexible dates or alternative airports,
book one-way and multi-destination itineraries and easily make modifications to
search criteria.  We intend to add additional
functionality such as the ability to search child and senior fares and to
access real time seat maps.

 

•                  Competitive inventory at competitive pricing: We
believe that securing competitive inventory at competitive pricing is critical
to our success.  For example, over the
last two years, the number of destinations available in our vacation package service
has doubled and we have added nearly 2,000 hotels.  With respect to our hotel service, we intend
to integrate our European and U.S. supply so that all of our customers can access
the entire inventory made available to us by our suppliers, regardless of the
specific site on which the consumer transacts.

 

6












 

•                  Content and merchandising: As part of our
evolution to a “one-stop-shopping” website, we have added thousands of pages of
content to allow customers to research destinations and hotel properties before
booking a reservation.  We offer property
descriptions, maps, images, and user reviews whereby our customers can benefit
from the experiences and opinions of other customers.  We introduced “PriceBreakersSM,” which is a presentation of
selected travel itineraries at discounted prices that is updated daily.  We intend to continue to improve our content
and merchandising with more comprehensive descriptions, more and higher quality
images, and more user reviews, which we believe will improve conversion of
users shopping on our website.

 

•                  Cross-sell opportunities: We also cross-sell different
travel components to maximize the revenue we generate from each customer.  In 2004 and 2005, we developed functionality
that allows customers to “add-on” travel components to their selection, both
during the shopping experience and at time of purchase.  For example, customers can add a rental car
reservation to their air or hotel reservation, or a hotel reservation to their
air reservation.  Customers can also add
destination related services such as shuttles, tours and activities.  Additionally, we cross-sell opaque services
on our retail path and retail services on our opaque path.  For example, an unsuccessful opaque air
customer may be offered a price-disclosed alternative, while a retail hotel
customer may be offered the Name Your Own
Price® alternative for greater
savings.  We intend to further enhance
these cross-sell opportunities across all of our services.

 

•                  Offer Travel Suppliers Valuable Distribution.  We strive to be the preferred discount
distribution channel for airlines, hotels and rental car companies.  Our Name
Your Own Price®
service protects supplier brand and published pricing and our packages and
other merchandising provide access to the brand neutral leisure traveler at
attractive distribution costs.

 

•                  Become the top online hotel reservation service in
Europe.  The size of the
travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that
within the United States.  Historically,
Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international
consumers have trailed those of the United States.  However, international consumers –
particularly European consumers – are rapidly moving to online means for
purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent
international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded and are
expected to continue to substantially exceed the growth rates within the United
States.  Prior to 2004, substantially all
of our revenues were generated within the United States.  In order to take advantage of the growth in
online travel outside of the United States, we acquired Internet hotel reservation
distributors Active Hotels and Bookings in September 2004 and July 2005,
respectively, giving us presence in the expanding European hotel market with almost
20,000 participating hotels across Europe. 
Because of the superior growth rates associated with international
online travel, we intend to continue to invest resources in increasing the
share of our revenues represented by international consumers and capitalize on
the growth of travel between the United States and Europe.

 

Service
Offerings

 

Name Your Own Price® Airline Tickets. 
There are a total of 11 domestic airlines and 27 international airlines
participating in our Name Your Own Price® airline ticket
service.

 

All
Name Your Own Price®
airline ticket requests are made through our websites.  To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1)
the origin and destination of the trip, (2) the dates on which the customer
wishes to depart and return, (3) the price the customer is willing to pay, and
(4) the customer’s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree
to:

 

7












 

•                  fly
on any one of our participating airline partners;

 

•                  leave
at any time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of
departure and return;

 

•                  purchase
only round trip coach class tickets between the same two points of departure
and return;

 

•                  accept
at least one stop or connection;

 

•                  receive
no frequent flier miles or upgrades; and

 

•                  accept
tickets that cannot be refunded or changed.

 

When
we receive an offer, we determine whether to fulfill the offer based upon,
among other things, the available fares, rules and inventory provided to us by
our participating airlines and certain other internal requirements.  A customer is usually notified whether his or
her offer has been accepted in near real-time. 
If we identify an airline ticket that meets the parameters specified by
the customer and that meets our internal requirements, the customer’s offer is
accepted and his or her credit card is charged the offer price, plus applicable
taxes, surcharges and processing fees, and the ticket is delivered to the
customer by the delivery method specified by the customer.  For customers who request it, we guarantee no
more than one connection per leg of trip with a maximum of a 3-hour stop.  As with our other Name Your Own Price®  travel services, once a customer’s offer for
airline tickets is accepted, that offer, in almost all cases, cannot be
withdrawn or cancelled and the customer’s purchase will not be refunded.

 

If
a customer’s offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably
close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy
the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing
certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being
accepted.  For example, in some cases we
disclose to the customer that agreeing to fly into an alternate airport would
increase the chances of his or her offer being accepted.  In other cases, we inform the customer that
increasing his or her offer by a certain amount would increase the chances of
it being accepted.  We may also offer a
customer the opportunity to purchase a price-disclosed retail airline ticket.

 

Retail Airline Tickets.  Since 2003, we have also offered
our customers the ability to purchase retail airline tickets at disclosed
prices and with disclosed itineraries. 
In these transactions, we act as agent for the airline.  The airline sets the retail price paid by the
consumer and is the merchant of record for the transaction.  These airline tickets do not have the
restrictions associated with our Name Your
Own Price® service.  For example, in addition to having fully
disclosed itineraries, retail airline tickets are generally changeable and
cancellable for a fee.

 

Name Your Own Price® 
Hotels.  Our Name
Your Own Price® hotel room reservation
service currently is available in substantially all major cities and
metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant national hotel chains as
well as several important real estate investment trusts and independent
property owners participate in your Name
Your Own Price® service.  Hotels participate by filing secure private
discounted rates with related inventory control rules in a global distribution
system database.  These specific rates
generally are not available to the general public or to consolidators and other
discount distributors who sell to the public, however, hotel participants may
make similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under
other arrangements.

 

Our
Name Your Own Price® hotel room
reservation service operates in a manner similar to our Name Your Own Price® airline ticket
service.  Consumers are required to
accept certain trade-offs with respect to brands or product features in return
for saving money.  For example, consumers
are required to accept a reservation in any hotel within a specified geographic
area within a designated “class” of service

 

8












 

(1,
2, 3, 4, 5-star or “resort”) and must accept limitations on changes and
cancellations.  As with the airline
ticket service, the target market for our hotel room reservation service is the
leisure travel market.

 

Retail Hotels.  In May 2004, we added a price-disclosed hotel
service through the acquisition of Travelweb. 
In March 2005, we launched a price-disclosed hotel service on
www.priceline.com that enables our customers to choose between price-disclosed
or Name Your Own Price® hotel rooms. 
Our retail hotel service makes available both agency and merchant model
inventory.  Under the merchant model,
pursuant to merchant arrangements we make directly with individual hotel chains
and independent hotel properties, we receive access to the inventory of
participating hotels directly from the hotels, at a negotiated rate and
determine the retail price at which we will offer our services to the consumer,
within contractual limitations.  Under
the agency model, we receive access to hotel inventory at generally available
rates, and are paid a commission upon a customer’s check-out.  As with our retail airline ticket service,
hotel reservations booked in a retail manner do not have the restrictions
associated with our Name Your
Own Price® service.  Customers can select the exact hotel they
want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.

 

In addition, as discussed above, the acquisitions of Active Hotels in
September 2004, and Bookings in July 2005, gave us a foothold into the
expanding European hotel market, as well as access to European inventory.

 

Name Your Own Price® 
Rental Cars.  Our Name
Your Own Price®
rental car service operates in a manner similar to our airline ticket and hotel
reservation services.  Our rental car
services are currently available in substantially all major United States
airport markets.  The top five brand name
airport rental car companies in the United States are seller participants in
our rental car program.  Consumers can
access our website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind
of car they want to rent (i.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the
price they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine
whether to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates, rules and
inventory.  If a customer’s offer is
accepted, we will immediately reserve the rental car, charge the customer’s
credit card and notify the customer of the rental car company and location
providing the rental car.

 

Retail Rental Cars.  In 2004, we launched a price-disclosed rental
car service on www.priceline.com that enables our customers to
choose between price-disclosed or Name Your
Own Price® rental cars.  In 2005, we upgraded our retail rental car
service to accommodate one-way and off-airport reservations.  Our price-disclosed rental car service
operates under the agency model, under which we earn a
commission upon a successful rental car booking.  As with our retail airline
ticket and hotel reservation services, rental car reservations booked in a
retail manner do not have the restrictions associated with our Name
Your Own Price® service.  Customers can select the exact car they want
to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.

 

With
respect to each of our airline, hotel and rental car services, we believe the
combination of our Name Your Own Price® model and the retail model allows us to provide
a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with
diverse streams of revenue.

 

Vacation Packages.  Our vacation package service allows consumers
to purchase packages consisting of airfare, hotel and rental car
components.  Consumers can select the
exact hotel or resort that they want to reserve, and then select either a
retail airline ticket or an opaque airline ticket for the air component of
their package.  Additionally, consumers
can add destination related services such as tours, shuttles, and
activities.  Vacation packages are sold
at disclosed prices, although consumers cannot determine the exact price of the
individual components.

 

Destination Services.  We currently offer customers the opportunity
to purchase destination services such as event tickets, ground transfers, tours,
restaurant meals and other services available at their travel
destinations.  This service is offered to
consumers as part of the process of booking an air,

 

9












 

hotel
and vacation reservation, and also as a standalone service.  In 2005, we expanded our destination services
offering by adding parking in certain locations and expanded ground transfer
options.

 

Cruises.  We
also offer price-disclosed cruise trips through NLG, Inc. (“NLG”), an agent
representing major cruise lines.  Our
cruise service allows consumers to search for and compare cruise pricing and
availability information from 16 cruise lines, and to purchase cruises online
or through a call center by selecting from our published offerings and prices.  We receive commissions from NLG on successful
cruise bookings.

 

Travel Insurance.  We offer our air, hotel and vacation package
customers an optional travel insurance package that provides coverage for,
among other things, trip cancellation, trip interruption, medical expenses,
emergency evacuation, and loss of baggage, property and travel documents.  The travel insurance is provided by member
companies of American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”).  We receive a percentage of the premium from
AIG member companies for every optional insurance package purchased by our
customers.

 

While
we are currently focused on the travel services described above, over time, we
may evaluate the introduction of other services that we believe could enhance
the travel experience of our customers.

 

Financial Services

 

We offer financial services through Priceline Mortgage Company LLC,
d/b/a pricelinemortgage.com, of which we own 49% and hold two of five seats on
the board of managers.  Pursuant to an intellectual property license from
us, pricelinemortgage.com utilizes the priceline.com Name Your Own Price® business model. 
Pricelinemortgage.com is controlled by EverBank, a federally chartered
savings association supervised by the Office of Thrift Supervision, and a
wholly owned subsidiary of EverBank Financial Corp.  Pricelinemortgage.com
has access to the management resources and expertise of EverBank, one of the
nation’s largest privately held banking and mortgage firms. EverBank Financial
Corp. provides management services to pricelinemortgage.com, including the
procurement of personnel and office space and assistance in obtaining
regulatory approvals.  Pricelinemortgage.com is operating in all 50
states.  Robert J. Mylod, our Chief Financial Officer, is a director of, and
an investor in, EverBank Financial Corp, the parent company of EverBank. 
Mr. Mylod’s investment represents less than 1/10 of one percent of EverBank
Financial Corp’s outstanding common stock.

 

Under the terms of an agreement with EverBank Financial Corp,
pricelinemortgage.com allows consumers to access attractive financial services
including, but not limited to, mortgages, home equity loans, and banking
service.  We record our proportionate
share of the results of pricelinemortgage.com as equity income in investees.

 

Marketing
and Brand Awareness

 

Priceline.com has established itself as one of the most recognized
e-commerce brands through an aggressive marketing and promotion campaign.  During 2005, our online and offline
advertising expenses were $59 million and $31 million, respectively.  We intend to continue a marketing strategy to
promote brand awareness and the concept that consumers can save money on
products and services while also taking advantage of the “one-stop-shop”
convenience afforded by our suite of travel service offerings.  We advertise primarily through television,
radio and online marketing.  Underlying
our marketing strategy is our belief that our target market is all consumers,
not just Internet-savvy consumers.  We
intend to continue to promote the priceline.com brand aggressively throughout
2006.

 

As
our European operations become more meaningful contributors to our results, we
have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in our advertising
expense.  Specifically, because our European

 

10












 

operations utilize online affiliate marketing
and Internet search engines, principally through the purchase of travel-related
keywords, as principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our
online advertising expense has increased significantly since our acquisition of
those companies, a trend we expect to continue throughout 2006.

 

Advertising Revenue.  We
sell advertising to travel suppliers and others on our owned websites.

 

Competition

 

We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services
offered on priceline.com. The market for the services we offer is intensely
competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new sites at a
relatively low cost. In addition, the major online travel companies with which
we compete have significantly greater financial resources and capital than we
do.  For instance, the Cendant
Corporation currently owns Orbitz.com, Inc., Cheaptickets.com, Lodging.com and
European travel sites Gullivers.com, ebookers plc and octopustravel, and Sabre
Group owns Travelocity.com and lastminute.com plc, a European full-service
travel site.  In addition, InterActive
recently spun-off its online travel business, including Hotels.com and
Hotwire.com, our primary competitor in the sale of “opaque” travel services,
into Expedia, which, as a stand-alone company, continues to have significantly
greater resources and capital than priceline.com.  We may not be able to effectively compete
with industry conglomerates such as Cendant, Sabre or Expedia, each of which
have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do.

 

We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with
respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these
competitors include:

 

•                  Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com and
Hotwire, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity and lastminute.com, which are
owned by the Sabre Group; and Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, Gullivers.com, ebookers
plc, octopustravel and Lodging.com, which are currently owned by the Cendant
Corporation;

 

•                  travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and
rental car companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which
they drive business;

 

•                  large online search companies, such as Yahoo! and Google;

 

•                  traditional travel agencies;

 

•                  online
travel search sites such as SideStep.com, Mobissimo.com, Cheapflights.com,
FareChase.com, Kayak.com, or any substantially similar online travel search
business using a business model sometimes referred to as “meta-search”; and

 

•                  operators of travel industry reservation databases such
as Galileo, Worldspan, L.P. and Amadeus.

 

Competitors of our European operations include, among others, Expedia
(including hotels.com), Cendant Corporation (including ebookers, octopustravel,
Gullivers.com and Flairview), Sabre Group (including lastminute.com),
Superbreak, Venere and Hotel Reservation Service.

 

In addition, many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers are focusing
on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party
distributors such as us.  Certain
suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book
airline reservations through an online channel other than their own
website.  Furthermore, many low cost
airlines, which are having increasing success in the

 

11












 

marketplace,
distribute their inventory exclusively through their own websites.  Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically
do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such
as bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more
attractive to consumers than models like ours.

 

We potentially face competition from a number of large Internet
companies and services that have expertise in developing online commerce and in
facilitating Internet traffic, including Amazon.com, AOL, MSN, Google.com and
Yahoo!, which compete with us either directly or indirectly through
affiliations with other e-commerce or off-line companies.  We also compete with “meta-search” companies,
which are companies that leverage their search technology to aggregate travel
search results across supplier, travel agent and other websites.  For example, Yahoo! owns FareChase.com, a
travel search-engine that searches for fares and hotel rates at travel supplier
and third-party websites, and refers traffic to those sites, and AOL is party
to a marketing and technology agreement, and holds a minority interest in, Kayak.com,
another leading meta-search company. 
Other established search engine companies as well as start-ups are
attempting to enter the online travel marketplace in this manner.  If Yahoo!, Google or other portals decide to
refer significant traffic to travel search engines, it could result in more
competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for
third-party sites such as ours. 
Competition from these and other sources could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Many of our current and potential competitors, including Internet
directories, search engines and large traditional retailers, have longer
operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly
greater financial, marketing, personnel, technical and other resources than
priceline.com. Some of these competitors may be able to secure products and
services on more favorable terms than we can. In addition, many of these
competitors may be able to devote significantly greater resources to:

 

•                  marketing and
promotional campaigns;

 

•                  attracting traffic to
their websites;

 

•                  attracting and retaining
key employees;

 

•                  securing vendors and
inventory; and

 

•                  website and systems
development.

 

Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, loss
of market share and damage to our brand. There can be no assurance that we will
be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. See “Risk
Factors – Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our
financial performance.”

 

Operations
and Technology

 

Our
business is supported by a systems platform, which was designed with an
emphasis on scalability, performance and reliability.  Our core demand collection and offer
processing systems are proprietary to priceline.com.  The software platform and architecture are
built on server-side Java, C++ and SQL scripts integrated with an Oracle
relational database system.  This
internal platform was designed to include open application protocol interfaces
that can provide connectivity to vendors in the industries in which we
operate.  These include large global
inventory systems, such as airline and hotel room reservation systems and
financial service providers, as well as individual inventory suppliers, such as
individual hotels.  Our Internet servers
utilize VeriSign digital certificates to help us conduct secure communications
and transactions.

 

12












 

We out-source most of our call center and customer service functions,
and use a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer
capabilities to our call centers and customer service centers.

 

We
rely primarily on the global distribution system (“GDS”) of Worldspan, L.P. in
the sale of airline tickets, opaque hotel room reservations, and rental car
reservations within the U.S. and Pegasus Solutions, Inc. for the sale of retail
hotel room reservations.  If the
Worldspan or Pegasus GDS becomes inaccessible, or partially inaccessible to us,
due to system failure or otherwise, for any significant amount of time, our
ability to book airline tickets, opaque hotel reservations and rental car
reservations in the case of Worldspan, and retail hotel reservations in the
case of Pegasus, could be adversely affected.

 

Our systems infrastructure and web and database servers in the U.S. are
hosted at SAVVIS in Jersey City, New Jersey, which provides communication
links, as well as 24-hour monitoring and engineering support.  SAVVIS has its own generator and multiple
back-up systems in Jersey City. 
Substantial amounts of our computer hardware for operating our services
are also located at SAVVIS in Jersey City. 
We also maintain a second web hosting facility at AT&T in New York
City.  Our network operations center
monitors both web hosting facilities and is located in our Norwalk, Connecticut
headquarters.  All three facilities have
an uninterruptible power supply system, generators and redundant servers.  If SAVVIS were unable, for any reason, to
support our primary web hosting facility, we would need to activate our
secondary site at AT&T.

 

The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our European
operations are hosted at IX EUROPE, in London, England, and Telecity Netherlands
and Redbus Interhouse Netherlands, in the Netherlands.  See “Risk Factors – Our Business is Dependent Upon
Third-Party Systems and Service Providers.”

 

Intellectual
Property

 

We currently hold fifteen issued United States patents, Nos. 5,794,207;
5,897,620; 6,085,169; 6,108,639; 6,134,534; 6,240,396; 6,332,129; 6,345,090;
6,356,878; 6,418,415; 6,466,919; 6,484,153; 6,510,418; 6,553,346; 6,993,503 and
over twenty pending United States and foreign patent applications.  All of our issued United States patents
expire between September 4, 2016 and April 28, 2020.  We file additional patent applications on new
inventions, as appropriate.

 

While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent
applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that:

 

•                  a
third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us
from practicing features of our business or that will require us to pay for a
license to use those features; 

 

•                  our
operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third
parties;

 

•                  any
patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third parties;

 

•                  the
pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents;

 

•                  competitors
or potential competitors of priceline.com will not devise new methods of
competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications;

 

•                  because
of variations in the application of our business model to each of our services,
our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from
utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more
categories; or

 

•                  new
prior art will not be discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate
an issued patent.

 

13












 

There
has been discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of
so-called “business method” patents. As a result, the United States Patent and
Trademark Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process
applicable to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to
have a direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot
anticipate what effect, if any, the new review process will have on our pending
patent applications. See, “Risk Factors – We are party to legal proceedings,
which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us,”
herein.

 

We
hold the exclusive rights to the trade names and service marks PRICELINEÒ and
PRICELINE.COMÒ in the U.S. as
well as in many foreign countries.  We
own U.S. Service Mark Registrations Nos. 2,481,750; 2,272,659; 2,594,582;
2,481,752; 2,594,592; and 2,481,112, including all attendant goodwill.  We also own U.S. Service Mark Registrations
Nos. 2,647,673 and 2,644,739 for NAME YOUR OWN PRICE®; U.S. Service
Mark Registration No. 2,313,827 for NAME YOUR PRICE!Ò; and U.S. Service Mark Registration No. 2,481,751
for PRICELINEMORTGAGE®.  In addition, we hold a trademark in the name
BOOKINGS in the Netherlands (Benelux no. 762054, filed on July 14, 2003 in
class 39) and we hold French trademarks in the names BOOKINGS (French
registration no. 43276223, filed on February 17, 2004 in classes 9, 35, 38 and
42) and BOOKING, (French registration no. 43276225, filed on February 17, 2004
in classes 9, 35, 38 and 42).  We also hold a European Union community
trademark in the words ACTIVE HOTELS.

 

We
monitor, protect and enforce our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade
dress and trade secrets on an ongoing basis through a combination of laws and
contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements.  For example, we endeavor to register our
trademarks and service marks in the United States and internationally,
currently holding over one hundred service mark registrations worldwide.  However, effective trademark, service mark,
copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in
which our services are or may be made available online, regardless of our
continuous efforts to police and register our marks.  See, “Risk Factors — Our success depends on our ability
to protect our intellectual property.”

 

We currently own numerous Internet domains in the United States and
abroad.  Domain names are generally
regulated by Internet regulatory bodies. 
The relationship between trademark and unfair competition laws and
domain name registration is evolving. 
The Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act in the U.S. and the
Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy of the Internet Corporation for
Assigned Names and Numbers have both significantly enhanced the ability to
deter the improper incorporation of trademarks into domain names by third
parties and to assert our registrations against them.  We actively pursue significant infringers as
appropriate, including cybersquatters and “typosquatters” who misappropriate
our service marks and misspellings thereof as domain names, to maintain our
famous marks and prevent the dilution of their distinctiveness.  See, “Risk Factors — Our success depends on our ability
to protect our intellectual property.”

 

Governmental
Regulation

 

The
services we provide are subject to various federal, state and local
regulations. For example, our travel service is subject to laws governing the
offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register
as a “seller of travel.”  In addition,
our services may be subject to various state and local taxing regulations.  See “Risk Factors – Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes”.

 

In addition, our business is indirectly affected by
regulatory and legal uncertainties affecting travel suppliers and global
distribution systems.  In 2004, the
Department of Transportation (the “DOT”) published a Final Rule, abolishing the
rules governing global distribution systems. 
As a part of the Final Rule, the DOT rejected proposals to regulate
online travel service providers’ fare displays. 
However, the DOT deferred consideration of a proposal to amend its
policies regarding advertising of air tickets, to require that agency service
fees be stated separately from the price being charged by the airlines.  Our current service fee disclosure practices
differ from those proposed by the DOT. 
If the DOT were to

 

14












 

resume consideration of and adopt the service fee
proposal, we may have less flexibility regarding merchandising air travel on
our websites.

 

We are subject to federal, state and international laws that require
protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel
transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable
data.  This data is increasingly subject
to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world,
including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection
Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European
Union.  Such government action is
typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected,
processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.

 

Pricelinemortgage.com is
subject to laws governing the licensing and conduct of persons providing
mortgage brokerage services. Such laws typically require certain consumer
protection disclosures and loan solicitation procedures. For example, the Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act prohibits the payment and receipt of mortgage
loan referral fees, and permits persons to be compensated only for the fair
market value of non-referral services. Accordingly, pricelinemortgage.com’s
home financing service provides non-referral services such as website
development and advertising to a licensed mortgage broker who, in turn,
provides the back-end processing for loan referrals.

 

All
of our services are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and
regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices.

 

We
are also subject to regulations applicable to businesses conducting online
commerce. Today there are relatively few laws specifically directed toward
online services. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet
and online services, it is possible that laws and regulations will be adopted
with respect to the Internet or online services. These laws and regulations
could cover issues such as online contracts, user privacy, freedom of
expression, pricing, fraud, content and quality of products and services,
taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security.
Applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as
property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues,
taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy is developing, but any such new
legislation could have significant implications on how we conduct online
business. In addition, some states may require us to qualify in that state to
do business as a foreign corporation because our service is available in that
state over the Internet. Although we are qualified to do business in a number
of states, failure to meet the qualifications of certain states, or a
determination that we are required to qualify in additional states, could
subject us to taxes and penalties.  See “Risk Factors –
Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business,” and “Uncertainty Regarding State Taxes.”

 

Our
European operations are subject to various foreign regulations and governing
bodies that might limit their products and services. They may be affected by
unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and various tariffs and trade
barriers in connection with online commerce. Any failure by our European
operations to comply may have an adverse effect on our business.

 

Employees

 

As
of March 1, 2006, we employed approximately 532 full-time employees, of which
285 are based at our Norwalk, Connecticut headquarters. We also retain
independent contractors to support our customer service and system support
functions.

 

We
have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by any
collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to be
good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to
attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and
managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.

 

15












 

Risk Factors

 

The following risk factors and other information included in
this Annual Report should be carefully considered.  The risks and uncertainties described below
are not the only ones we face. 
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also
impair our business operations.  If any
of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results
and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.

 

We are dependent on the airline industry and certain
airlines.

 

Our financial prospects are significantly dependent upon our sale of
leisure airline tickets.  Leisure travel,
including the sale of leisure airline tickets, is dependent on personal
discretionary spending levels. As a result, sales of leisure airline tickets
and other leisure travel services tend to decline during general economic
downturns and recessions. In addition, unforeseen events, such as terrorist
attacks, political instability, regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices,
imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel-related
accidents, travel-related health concerns and unusual weather patterns
also may adversely affect the leisure travel industry. As a result, our
business also is likely to be affected by those events. Further, work stoppages
or labor unrest at any of the major airlines could materially and adversely
affect the airline industry and, as a consequence, have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

During the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, sales of airline
tickets from our five largest and two largest airline suppliers accounted for
approximately 82% and 43% of total airline tickets sold, respectively.  As a result, we are currently substantially
dependent upon the continued participation of these airlines in priceline.com
in order to maintain and continue to grow our total gross profit.

 

Our arrangements with the airlines that participate in our system –
either Name Your Own Price®
or price-disclosed service – generally do not require the airlines to provide
any specific quantity of airline tickets or to make tickets available for any
particular route or at any particular price, and can generally be terminated
upon little or no notice.  During the
course of our business, we are in continuous dialogue with our major airline
suppliers about the nature and extent of their participation in our system. The
significant reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their
participation in our system for a sustained period of time or their complete
withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. 
Moreover, the airline industry has experienced a shift in market share
from full-service carriers to low-cost carriers that focus primarily on discount
fares to leisure destinations and we expect this trend to continue.  Some low-cost carriers, such as Southwest and
JetBlue, do not distribute their tickets through us or other third-party
intermediaries.  In addition, certain
airlines have significantly limited or eliminated sales of airline tickets
through “opaque” channels, preferring to consistently show the lowest available
price on their own website.  If one or
more participating airlines were to further limit or eliminate discounting
through opaque channels, it could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Due to our dependence on the airline industry, we could be severely
affected by changes in that industry, and, in many cases, we will have no
control over such changes or their timing. 
Several major U.S. airlines are struggling financially and have either
filed for reorganization under the United States Bankruptcy Code or discussed
publicly the risks of bankruptcy.  Two of our largest airline suppliers, Delta Air
Lines and Northwest Airlines, are currently operating under the protection of
federal bankruptcy laws. If any of our suppliers currently in bankruptcy
liquidates or does not emerge from bankruptcy and we are unable to replace such
supplier as a participant in priceline.com, our business would be adversely
affected. In addition, in the event that another of our major suppliers
voluntarily or involuntarily declares bankruptcy and is subsequently unable to
successfully emerge from bankruptcy, and we are unable to replace such
supplier, our business would be adversely affected.  To the extent other major U.S. airlines that
participate in our system declare bankruptcy, they may be unable or unwilling
to honor tickets sold for their flights. Our policy in such event would be to
direct customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not

 

16












 

to
provide a remedy ourselves. Because we are the merchant-of-record on sales of Name Your Own Price® airline
tickets to our customers, however, we could experience a significant increase
in demands for refunds or credit card charge-backs from customers, which
could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial results. In
addition, because Name Your Own Price®
customers do not choose the airlines on which they are to fly, the bankruptcy
of a major U.S. airline or even the possibility of a major U.S. airline
declaring bankruptcy could discourage customers from using our Name Your Own Price®
system to book airline tickets.

 

If one of our major airline suppliers merges or consolidates with, or
is acquired by, another company that either does not participate in the
priceline.com system or that participates on substantially lower levels, the
surviving company may elect not to participate in our system or to participate
at lower levels than the previous supplier. 
For example, in September 2005, US Airways and America West merged.  US Airways was a meaningful participant in
our Name Your Own Price® system,
but America West participated on a very limited basis.  The resulting entity participates in our Name Your Own Price® system,
but at lower levels than US Airways’ historical participation.  Failure of the resulting entity to
participate in our Name Your Own Price®
system on a meaningful basis would be the equivalent of US Airways withdrawing
from, or significantly reducing its participation in, our Name Your Own Price® system and
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  The loss of any
major airline participant in our Name Your
Own Price® system could result in other major airlines
electing to terminate their participation in the Name Your Own Price® system, which would further
negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  In addition, fewer
independent suppliers reduces opacity and competition among suppliers.  In such event, if we are unable to divert
sales to other suppliers, our business results of operations and financial
condition may be adversely affected.

 

In addition, given the concentration of the airline industry,
particularly in the domestic market, our competitors could exert pressure on
other airlines not to supply us with tickets. Moreover, the airlines may
attempt to establish their own buyer-driven commerce service or
participate or invest in other similar services.

 

We are dependent on certain hotels.

 

Our financial prospects are significantly dependent upon the sale of
hotel room nights.  During the twelve
months ended December 31, 2005, sales of Name
Your Own Price® hotel room nights from our five largest
hotel suppliers accounted for approximately 35% of total Name Your Own Price® hotel room
nights sold.  As a result, we are currently
substantially dependent upon the continued participation of these hotels in
priceline.com’s hotel service in order to maintain and continue to grow our
total gross profit.

 

We currently have more than 40 national hotel chains participating in
the Name Your Own Price®
system.  However, our arrangements with
the hotels that participate in our Name Your
Own Price® system generally:

 

•                  do not require the hotels to make available to our customers any
specific quantity of hotel rooms;

 

•                  do not require the hotels to provide particular prices or levels of
discount;

 

•                  do not require the hotels to deal exclusively with us in the public sale
of discounted hotel rooms; and

 

•                  generally, can be terminated upon little or no notice.

 

As a general matter, during the course of our business, we are in
continuous dialogue with our major hotel suppliers about the nature and extent
of their participation in our system. 
Improving

 

17












 

economic
conditions are creating increased demand for hotel rooms and some hotels may
reduce the amount of inventory they sell through our service or increase the
negotiated rates at which they are willing to provide inventory.  If hotel occupancy rates improve to the point
that our hotel suppliers no longer place the same value on our distribution
systems, such suppliers may reduce the amount of inventory they make available
through priceline.com and/or our European operations.  The significant reduction on the part of any
of our major suppliers of their participation in our system for a sustained
period of time or their complete withdrawal could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Our
merchant price-disclosed hotel service facilitates the purchase of hotel rooms
by customers pursuant to a retail merchant model, which is based on merchant
arrangements we make directly with individual hotel chains and independent
hotel properties. We receive access to inventory directly from a hotel at a negotiated
rate, and determine the retail price at which we will offer our services to the
consumer, within contractual limitations. 
Many hotels use merchant arrangements with companies like ours to
dispose of excess hotel room inventory at wholesale rates. If hotels experience
increased demand for rooms, they might reduce the amount of room inventory they
make available through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service.  The recent improvement in occupancy rates
discussed above could cause hotels to reduce the amount of inventory they make
available through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service.

 

In addition, certain hotels have begun initiatives to reduce margins
received by third party intermediaries on retail merchant transactions, which
is the primary method we employ to distribute retail hotel room
reservations.  Many hotels distribute
room inventory through their own websites and therefore might increase
negotiated rates for merchant rate inventory sold through our merchant
price-disclosed hotel service, decreasing the margin available to us.  While our merchant price-disclosed hotel agreements
with our leading hotel suppliers provide for specified discounts, if one or
more participating hotels were to require us to limit our merchant margins,
upon contract renewal or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Our European operations’ business model exposes us to
certain risks that we have not traditionally experienced in the hotel business.

 

Our
European operations distribute hotel rooms primarily through a retail model,
whereby they secure a reservation with a customer’s credit card, but are not
compensated by the hotel property until such customer checks out of the hotel
property.  This requires our European
operations to pursue collection of commissions relating to hotel room
reservations from the hotel properties after the customer has completed his or
her stay.  We do not have extensive
experience in collecting commissions from hotel properties and failure to
sustain an adequate collection rate could negatively impact the business of our
European operations.

 

In
addition, our European operations rely heavily on various third parties to
distribute hotel room reservations, and our European operations’ distribution
channels are concentrated among a number of third parties.  Should one or more of such third parties
cease distribution of our European operations’ reservations, or suffer
deterioration in its search engine ranking, due to changes in search engine
algorithms or otherwise, the business of our European operations could be
negatively affected.  Similarly, a
significant amount of our European business is directed to our own websites through
participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines
whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change both
technically and competitively.  If a major search engine changes its
pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a negative manner, our business,
results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.

 

Historically,
the majority of our European operations’ business has been located in the
U.K.  The strategy of our European
operations involves rapid expansion into other European countries, many of
which have different customs, different levels of customer acceptance of the
Internet and different

 

18












 

legislation, regulatory environments and tax
schemes.  Compliance with foreign legal,
regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources,
and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal,
regulatory or tax consequences.  If our
European operations are unsuccessful in rapidly expanding into other European
countries, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be
adversely affected.

 

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange
rates.

 

As a result of our acquisitions of our European operations, we are
conducting a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United
States and are reporting our results in U.S. dollars.  As a result, we face exposure to adverse
movements in currency exchange rates. 
The results of operations of our European operations are exposed to
foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of our European
operations are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon
consolidation.  If the U.S. dollar
weakens against the local currency, the translation of these
foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net
revenues, operating expenses, and net income or loss.  Similarly, our net assets, net revenues,
operating expenses, and net income or loss will decrease if the U.S. dollar
strengthens against local currency. Additionally, foreign exchange rate
fluctuations may adversely impact our results of operations as exchange rate
fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional
currency result in gains and losses that are reflected in our Consolidated
Statement of Operations.

 

We may lose or be subject to reduction of global
distribution system fees.

 

We rely on fees paid to us by Worldspan, L.P. and other global
distribution systems, or GDSs, for travel bookings made through GDSs for a
substantial portion of our gross profit and net income. A number of travel
suppliers, particularly airlines, have indicated publicly that, as part of an
effort to reduce distribution costs, they intend to reduce their dependence
over time on what they view to be “expensive” distribution channels such as
GDSs. A number of travel suppliers have reached agreements with travel
distributors that require rebates of all or part of the fees received from the
GDS.  We have agreed to rebate certain
GDS costs to certain suppliers in exchange for contractual considerations such
as those relating to inventory pricing and availability, and expect to continue
to do so in the future.  Additionally, travel
suppliers are encouraging distributors, such as us, to develop technology
enabling direct connections, therefore bypassing the GDS. Development of direct
connection technology would require the use of information technology resources
and could cause us to incur additional operating expenses and delay other
projects. We have been and believe that we will continue to be under pressure
from travel suppliers, including most of the major domestic airlines and many
of our significant hotel suppliers, to rebate all or part of the travel booking
fees we receive from GDSs like Worldspan, L.P. To the extent that we are
required to rebate travel booking fees we currently receive to travel
suppliers, and are unable to recover such amounts by charging customers, or, if
one or a number of travel suppliers pull out of our service because they are
unhappy with existing distribution costs, it could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

In addition, some airlines are exploring
alternative global distribution methods recently developed by new entrants to
the global distribution marketplace. 
Such new entrants propose using technology that is less complex than
traditional global distribution systems, and that enables the distribution of
airline tickets in a manner that is more cost-effective to the airline
suppliers.  Our airline suppliers might
pressure us to implement such a distribution system, but our contractual
obligations to Worldspan, L.P. would limit our ability to do so during the term
of our agreement with Worldspan, L.P. 
If, as a result, any of such suppliers reduces or ceases its
participation in priceline.com, it could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

19












 

Our ability to satisfy customers may be adversely
affected by a number of factors outside of our control.

 

Most
of our revenue is derived from the leisure travel industry, and is, therefore,
subject to increase and decrease with the level of activity in the leisure
travel industry, a factor almost entirely out of our control.  The travel industry is seasonal and our
revenue varies significantly from quarter to quarter. Factors that may
adversely affect leisure travel activity include, without limitation,  economic downturns and recessions; global
security issues, political instability, acts of terrorism, civil unrest,
hostilities and war; increased airport security that could reduce the
convenience of air travel; inclement weather or natural disaster such as
hurricane, tsunami or earthquake; increased occurrence of, or widely publicized
travel-related accidents; the outbreak of an epidemic or pandemic such as SARS
or avian bird flu; and the financial condition of travel suppliers.

 

Intense competition could reduce our market share and
harm our financial performance.

 

We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services
offered on priceline.com. The market for the services we offer is intensely
competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new sites at a
relatively low cost. In addition, the major online travel companies with which
we compete have significantly greater financial resources and capital than we
do.  For instance, the Cendant
Corporation currently owns Orbitz.com, Inc., Cheaptickets.com, Lodging.com and
European travel sites Gullivers.com, ebookers plc and octopustravel, and Sabre
Group owns Travelocity.com and lastminute.com plc, a European full-service
travel site.  In addition, InterActive
recently spun-off its online travel business, including Hotels.com and
Hotwire.com, our primary competitor in the sale of “opaque” travel services,
into Expedia, which, as a stand-alone company, continues to have significantly
greater resources and capital than priceline.com.  We may not be able to effectively compete
with industry conglomerates such as Cendant, Sabre or Expedia, each of which
have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do.

 

We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with
respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these
competitors include:

 

•                  Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com and
Hotwire, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity and lastminute.com, which are
owned by the Sabre Group; and Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, Gullivers.com, ebookers
plc, octopustravel and Lodging.com, which are currently owned by the Cendant
Corporation;

 

•                  travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and
rental car companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which
they drive business;

 

•                  large online search companies, such as Yahoo! and Google;

 

•                  traditional travel agencies;

 

•                  online
travel search sites such as SideStep.com, Mobissimo.com, Cheapflights.com, FareChase.com,
Kayak.com, or any substantially similar online travel search business using a
business model sometimes referred to as “meta-search”; and

 

•                  operators of travel industry reservation databases such
as Galileo, Worldspan, L.P. and Amadeus.

 

20












 

Competitors of our European operations include, among others, Expedia
(including hotels.com), Cendant Corporation (including ebookers, octopustravel,
Gullivers.com and Fairview), Sabre Group (including lastminute.com),
Superbreak, Venere and Hotel Reservation Service.

 

In addition, many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers are focusing
on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party
distributors such as us.  Certain
suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book
airline reservations through an online channel other than their own
website.  Furthermore, many low cost
airlines, which are having increasing success in the marketplace, distribute
their inventory exclusively through their own websites.  Suppliers who sell on their own websites
typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer
advantages such as bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their
offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours.

 

We potentially face competition from a number of large Internet
companies and services that have expertise in developing online commerce and in
facilitating Internet traffic, including Amazon.com, AOL, MSN, Google.com and
Yahoo!, which compete with us either directly or indirectly through
affiliations with other e-commerce or off-line companies.  We also compete with “meta-search” companies,
which are companies that leverage their search technology to aggregate travel
search results across supplier, travel agent and other websites.  For example, Yahoo! owns FareChase.com, a
travel search-engine that searches for fares and hotel rates at travel supplier
and third-party websites, and refers traffic to those sites, and AOL is party to
a marketing and technology agreement, and holds a minority interest in,
Kayak.com, another leading meta-search company. 
Other established search engine companies as well as start-ups are
attempting to enter the online travel marketplace in this manner.  If Yahoo!, Google or other portals decide to
refer significant traffic to travel search engines, it could result in more
competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for
third-party sites such as ours. 
Competition from these and other sources could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Many of our current and potential competitors, including Internet
directories, search engines and large traditional retailers, have longer
operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and
significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel, technical and other
resources than priceline.com. Some of these competitors may be able to secure
products and services on more favorable terms than we can. In addition, many of
these competitors may be able to devote significantly greater resources to:

 

•                  marketing and
promotional campaigns;

 

•                  attracting traffic to
their websites;

 

•                  attracting and retaining
key employees;

 

•                  securing vendors and
inventory; and

 

•                  website and systems
development.

 

Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, loss
of market share and damage to our brand. There can be no assurance that we will
be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that
competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

 

Our business could be negatively affected by changes
in search engine algorithms and dynamics.

 

We
utilize Internet search engines, principally through the purchase of
travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites.  Our European operations, in particular, rely
to a significant extent upon third-party distribution partners that derive
substantial business from search engines. 
Within the past year, at least one major search engine changed the logic
which determines the placement and display of

 

21












 

results of a user’s search, such that the
placement of links to our sites, and particularly those of our European
operations and their affiliates, was negatively affected.  In a similar way, a significant amount of our
European business is directed to our own websites through participation in pay-per-click
advertising campaigns on Internet search engines whose pricing and operating
dynamics can experience rapid change both technically and competitively.
 If a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that further
negatively affects the search engine ranking of us or our third-party
distribution partners or changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics
in a negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial
condition would be adversely affected.

 

Defending against intellectual property claims could
be expensive and disruptive to our business.

 

From
time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to,
and are currently subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the
intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties will
continue to assert intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims,
against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business.  We endeavor to defend our intellectual
property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely
expensive and time consuming, and has and is likely to continue to divert
managerial attention and resources from our business objectives.  Successful infringement claims against us
could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our
business, or portions of our business. 
In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to
use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be
expensive to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether.  Any of these events could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

 

Acquisitions could result in operating
difficulties.

 

As part of our business strategy, in September 2004, we acquired Active
Hotels and, in July 2005, Bookings.  We
may enter into additional business combinations and acquisitions in the future.  Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances
of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and
amortization of expenses related to intangible assets acquired.  In addition, the process of integrating an
acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties
and expenditures.  The acquisitions of
Active Hotels and Bookings were accompanied by a number of risks, including,
without limitation:

 

•                  the need
to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a
larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such
controls, procedures and policies;

 

•                  the
difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of Active Hotels and
Bookings, which are principally located in Cambridge, England, and Amsterdam,
The Netherlands, respectively, with and into our operations, which are
headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut;

 

•                  the
potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management;

 

•                  the
difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our services
and unanticipated expenses related to such integration;

 

•                  the
failure to further successfully develop acquired technology resulting in the
impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets;

 

•                  the
impairment of relationships with customers of Active Hotels, Bookings or our
own customers as a result of any integration of operations;

 

•                  the
impairment of relationships with employees of Active Hotels, Bookings or our
own business as a result of any integration of new management personnel;

 

•                  the
potential unknown liabilities associated with Active Hotels or Bookings.

 

22












 

We may experience similar risks in connection with any future
acquisitions. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other
problems encountered in connection with the acquisitions of Active Hotels and
Bookings or that we could encounter in future acquisitions, which would harm
our business or cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our
acquisitions.  We currently have
approximately $303 million assigned primarily to the intangible assets and
goodwill of Active Hotels and Bookings, and therefore, the occurrence of any of
the aforementioned risks could result in a material adverse impact, including a
material impairment of these assets, which could cause us to have to write-down
goodwill.  Any such write-down of
goodwill could adversely impact our operating results, which would cause our
stock price to decline significantly.

 

Our growth cannot be assured. Even if we do
experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably.

 

Our business strategies are dependent on the growth of our business.
For us to achieve significant growth, consumers and travel suppliers must
continue to accept our website as a valuable commercial tool. Consumers who
have historically purchased travel services using traditional commercial
channels, such as local travel agents and calling suppliers directly, must
instead purchase these services on our website. Similarly, travel suppliers
will also need to accept or expand their use of our website and view our
website as an efficient and profitable channel of distribution for their travel
products. Our ability to enhance awareness of the priceline.com brands and
offer services that will attract and retain a significant number of new
consumers and travel suppliers is not certain, and therefore, our growth may be
limited.

 

We may not be able to keep up with rapid
technological and other changes.

 

The
markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology,
evolving industry standards, consolidation, frequent new service and product
announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing consumer demands. We
may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes. In addition, these market
characteristics are heightened by the emerging nature of the Internet and the
apparent need of companies from many industries to offer Internet-based
products and services. As a result, our future success will depend on our
ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to
evolving industry standards and to continually improve the performance,
features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service and
product offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In addition, the
widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications
technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur
substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure.

 

Online or internal security
breaches could harm our business.

 

The secure transmission of confidential
information over the Internet is essential in maintaining consumer and supplier
confidence in the priceline.com services. Substantial or ongoing security
breaches whether instigated internally or externally on our system or other
Internet-based systems could significantly harm our business. We
currently require buyers to guarantee their offers with their credit card,
either online or through our toll-free telephone service. We rely on licensed
encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of
confidential information, including credit card numbers from and to our
customers. It is possible that advances in computer circumvention capabilities,
new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of
customer transaction data.

 

We incur substantial expense
to protect against and remedy security breaches and their consequences. However,
we cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent security breaches.
A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party)
that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal customer
transaction data, proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in
our operations. For instance, several major websites have experienced
significant interruptions as a result of improper direction of excess traffic
to those sites, and computer viruses have

 

23












 

substantially disrupted e-mail and other functionality in a number of
countries, including the United States. Security breaches also could damage our
reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible
liability. Security breaches could also cause customers and potential customers
to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the
value of our brand.  Our insurance
policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us
for losses caused by security breaches.

 

Companies that we have acquired, such as our European operations, and
that we may acquire in the future, may employ security and networking standards
at levels we find unsatisfactory.  The process of enhancing infrastructure
to attain improved security and network standards may be time consuming and
expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to
obtain.  Such acquisitions increase the number of potential vulnerabilities,
and can cause delays in detection of an attack, as well as the timelines of
recovery from any given attack. Failure to raise any such standards that we
find unsatisfactory could expose us to security breaches that would have an
adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third
parties conducting business over the Internet. Consumers generally are
concerned with security and privacy on the Internet, and any publicized
security problems could inhibit the growth of the Internet and, therefore, the
priceline.com service as a means of conducting commercial transactions.

 

Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give
rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal
requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights.

 

In
our processing of travel transactions, we receive and store a large volume of
personally identifiable data.  This data
is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous
jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union
through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the
member states of the European Union. 
This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of
personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the
governing jurisdiction.  We could be
adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require
changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or
implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

In
addition, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in
the United States, government agencies have been contemplating or developing
initiatives to enhance national and aviation security, including the
Transportation Security Administration’s Computer-Assisted Passenger
Prescreening System, known as CAPPS II. 
These initiatives may result in conflicting legal requirements with
respect to data handling.  As privacy and
data protection has become a more sensitive issue, we may also become exposed
to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of
travel data.  Travel businesses have also
been subjected to investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to
allegedly improper disclosure of passenger information.  These and other privacy developments that are
difficult to anticipate could adversely impact our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

 

We rely on the value of the
priceline.com brand, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing.

 

We
believe that maintaining and expanding the priceline.com brand, and other owned
brands, including Lowestfare.com, Rentalcars.com, Breezenet.com,
MyTravelGuide.com, Travelweb, Active Hotels and Bookings, are important aspects
of our efforts to attract and expand our user and advertiser base.  As our larger competitors spend increasingly
more on advertising, we are required to spend more in order to maintain our
brand recognition.  Promotion of the
priceline.com brand will depend largely on our success in satisfying our
customers. In addition, we have spent considerable money and resources to date

 

24












 

on the establishment and maintenance of the
priceline.com brands, and we will continue to spend money on, and devote
resources to advertising, marketing and other brand-building efforts to
preserve and enhance consumer awareness of the priceline.com brands. We may not
be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the
priceline.com brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts,
such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance
customer awareness of the priceline.com brands in a cost-effective manner, our
business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.

 

We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to repay
or repurchase our $225 million Convertible Senior Notes and the Notes could
result in dilution to our earnings per share.

 

In August 2003, we issued $125 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible
Senior Notes due August 1, 2010, with an interest rate of 1% (the “1% Notes”)
and in June 2004, we issued $100 million aggregate principal amount of
Convertible Senior Notes due January 15, 2025, with an interest rate of 2.25%
(the “2.25% Notes”, and collectively with the 1% Notes, the “Notes”).  The
holders of the 1% Notes may require us to repurchase the notes on August 1,
2008 and the holders of the 2.25% Notes may require us to repurchase the notes
on January 15, 2010, 2015 or 2020.  It is possible that we may not have
sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay
the principal amount or repurchase price due.  We are increasingly reliant
on our European operations as a source of cash flow and in the event we are required
to repay or repurchase the notes, we would likely incur expenses to repatriate
such cash to the United States.  If we are unable to repurchase, repay or
refinance the Notes when due, we would be in default under our indentures and
our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely
affected.

 

In the event that all or substantially all of our common stock is
acquired prior to January 15, 2010, in a transaction in which the consideration
paid to holders of our common stock consists of all, or substantially all,
cash, we would be required to make additional payments to the holders of the
2.25% Notes of amounts ranging from $0 to $17.6 million depending upon the date
of the transaction and our then current stock price.

 

Pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board Emerging Issues Task
Force Issue No. 04-08, “The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted
Earnings per Share,” (“EITF 04-08”) contingently convertible debt, such as the
Notes, must be included in diluted earnings per share, regardless of whether
the market price contingency contained in the debt instrument has been
met.  EITF 04-08 could result in a material reduction in our diluted
earnings per share in future periods.  See Notes 8 and 13 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further discussion of Net Income Per Share and
Convertible Debt, respectively.

 

Our success depends on our ability to protect our
intellectual property.

 

We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success, and we
rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and
confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers,
partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not successful
in protecting our intellectual property, it could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent
applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that:

 

•                  any patent can be
successfully defended against challenges by third parties;

 

•                  pending patent
applications will result in the issuance of patents;

 

•                  competitors or potential
competitors of priceline.com will not devise new methods of competing with us
that are not covered by our patents or patent applications;

 

25












 

•                  because of variations in
the application of our business model to each of our services, our patents will
be effective in preventing one or more third parties from utilizing a copycat
business model to offer the same service in one or more categories;

 

•                  new prior art will not
be discovered which may diminish the value of or invalidate an issued patent;

 

•                  a third party will not
have or obtain one or more patents that prevent us from practicing features of
our business or require us to pay for a license to use those features; or

 

•                  our operations do not or will not infringe
valid, enforceable patents of third parties.

 

There has been recent discussion in the press regarding the examination
and issuance of so called “business-method” patents. As a result, the
United States Patent and Trademark Office has indicated that it intends to
intensify the review process applicable to such patent applications. The new
procedures are not expected to have a direct effect on patents already granted.
We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, the new review process will have on
our pending patent applications.

 

We pursue the registration of our trademarks
and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However, effective
trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be
available in every country in which our services are made available online. We
have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our
proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third
parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the value of our
proprietary rights or harm our reputation.

 

Our business is dependent upon third-party
systems and service providers.

 

We rely on certain third-party computer systems and third-party
service providers, including the computerized central reservation systems of
the airline, hotel and rental car industries to satisfy demand for airline
tickets, hotel room and rental car reservations. In particular, our travel
business is substantially dependent upon the computerized reservation systems
of operators of global distribution systems for the travel industry. Any
interruption in these third-party services systems or deterioration in
their performance could prevent us from booking airline, hotel and rental car
reservations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our agreements
with third-party service providers are terminable upon short notice and
often do not provide recourse for service interruptions. In the event our
arrangement with any of such third parties is terminated, we may not be able to
find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially
reasonable terms and, as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

A substantial portion of our computer hardware for operating our
services is currently located at a web hosting facility operated by
SAVVIS.  If SAVVIS is, for any reason,
unable to support our website, we would need to quickly complete the activation
of our secondary site at the AT&T web hosting facility.  Any of these conditions could cause
disruptions to our business or exposure to potentially damaging press coverage
of the problems, and would have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations, and financial condition.

 

Our communications infrastructure is provided by vendors such as
AT&T, MCI, IX EUROPE and MCI Worldcom B.V. 
If they are unable, for any reason, to support the communications
infrastructure they provide us, instabilities in our systems could increase
until such time as we were able to replace their services.

 

While we do maintain redundant systems and hosting services for some of
our business, it is possible that we could experience an interruption in our
business, and we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to
compensate us for losses that may occur.

 

26












 

Capacity constraints and system failures could harm
our business.

 

We rely primarily on the global distribution system of Worldspan, L.P.
in the sale of airline tickets, opaque hotel room reservations, and rental car
reservations, and the global distribution system of Pegasus Solutions in the
sale of retail hotel room reservations. 
If the Worldspan, L.P. or Pegasus GDS becomes inaccessible, or partially
inaccessible to us, due to system failure or otherwise, for any significant
amount of time, our ability to book airline tickets, opaque and retail hotel
reservations and rental car reservations could be adversely affected, in which
case our results would suffer.  We also
depend upon Paymentech to process our credit card transactions. If Paymentech
was wholly or partially compromised, our cash flows could be disrupted until
such a time as a replacement process could be put in place with a different
vendor.

 

A substantial amount of our computer hardware for operating our
services is currently located at the facilities of SAVVIS in New Jersey, IX
EUROPE in London, England, Telecity Netherlands and Redbus Interhouse
Netherlands. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or
interruption from human error, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication
failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage,
intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite any precautions
we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated
problems at the SAVVIS facility, the IX EUROPE facility or the Netherlands
facility could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. In addition,
the failure by SAVVIS, IX EUROPE or MCI Worldcom B.V. to provide our required
data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Any
system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the
responsiveness of the priceline.com service could impair our reputation, damage
our brand name and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

 

If our systems cannot be expanded to cope with increased demand or
fails to perform, we could experience:

 

•                  unanticipated
disruptions in service;

 

•                  slower response times;

 

•                  decreased customer
service and customer satisfaction; or

 

•                  delays in the
introduction of new products and services,

 

any of which could impair our reputation, damage the
priceline.com brand and materially and adversely affect our revenues. Publicity
about a service disruption also could cause a material decline in our stock
price.

 

Like many online businesses, we have experienced system failures from
time to time. For example, in May 2001, our primary website was
interrupted for a period of 12 hours. In addition to placing increased
burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a significant amount of
user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support
personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in our service could result in an immediate
loss of revenues that can be substantial and may cause some users to switch to
our competitors. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our
reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We have been taking steps to
increase the reliability and redundancy of our system. These steps are
expensive, may reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing the
frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime.

 

We use both internally developed systems and third-party systems to
operate the priceline.com service, including transaction processing, order
management and financial systems that were designed to be scaleable and stable.
However, if the number of users of our services increases substantially, or if
critical third-party systems stop operating as designed, we will need to
significantly expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing
systems, financial systems and other infrastructure. We do not

 

27












 

know
whether we will be able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to
accommodate such conditions in a timely manner.

 

Companies that we have acquired, such as our European operations, and
that we may acquire in the future, may present known or unknown
capacity/stability or other types of system challenges.  The process of
enhancing infrastructure to attain improved capacity/scalability and other
system characteristics may be time consuming and expensive and may require
resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain.  Such acquisitions
increase potential downtime, customer facing problems and compliance
problems.  Failure to successfully make
any such improvements to such infrastructures could expose us to potential
capacity, stability, and system problems that would have an adverse impact on
our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes

 

We file tax returns in such states as required by law based on
principles applicable to traditional businesses. In addition, we pay sales and
other taxes, including hotel occupancy taxes, to suppliers related to travel
services sold through the priceline.com service.  We believe that this
practice is consistent with the tax laws of all jurisdictions. On an ongoing
basis, we conduct a review and interpretation of the tax laws in various states
and other jurisdictions relating to the payment of state and local hotel
occupancy and other related taxes.  In connection with our review, we have
met and had discussions with taxing authorities in certain jurisdictions but
the ultimate resolution in any particular jurisdiction cannot be determined at
this time.  Currently, hotels collect and remit hotel occupancy and
related taxes to the various tax authorities based on the amounts collected by
the hotels. Consistent with this practice, we recover the taxes on the
underlying cost of the hotel room night from customers and pay that amount to
the hotel operators for payment to the appropriate tax authorities.  As
discussed in Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, several
jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits indicating the position that sales or
hotel occupancy tax is applicable to the differential between the price paid by
a customer for our service and the cost of the underlying room. Historically,
we have not collected taxes on this differential. Additional state and local
jurisdictions could assert that we are subject to sales or hotel occupancy
taxes on this differential and could seek to collect such taxes, either
retroactively or prospectively or both. A number of proposals have been made at
state and local levels that could impose additional taxes on the sale of
products and services through the Internet or the income derived from these
sales. Such actions may result in substantial tax liabilities for past and/or
future sales and could have a material adverse effect on our business and
results of operations. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in
asserting that any such tax collection responsibility exists, it is likely
that, with respect to future transactions, we would collect any such additional
tax obligation from our customers, which would have the effect of increasing
the cost of hotel room nights to our customers and, consequently, could reduce
our hotel sales. We will continue to assess the risks of the potential
financial impact of additional tax exposure, and to the extent appropriate, we
will reserve for those estimated liabilities.

 

Current economic conditions in the United States are triggering active
consideration on ways to generate additional tax revenues by both the federal
and state and local governments. We cannot predict what changes in tax law or
interpretations of such laws may be adopted or assure that such changes or
interpretations would not materially impact our business.

 

Our business is exposed to risks associated with
credit card fraud and charge-backs.

 

To date, our results have been negatively impacted by purchases made
using fraudulent credit cards. Because we act as the merchant-of-record in a
majority of our transactions, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent
credit cards on our website as well as other payment disputes with our
customers. Additionally, we are held liable for accepting fraudulent credit
cards in certain retail transactions when we do not act as merchant of
record.  Accordingly, we calculate and
record an allowance for the resulting credit card charge-backs.  If we are unable to combat the use of
fraudulent credit cards on our website, our business, results of operations and
financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

 

28












 

Two large stockholders beneficially own approximately
31% of our stock.

 

Hutchison Whampoa Limited
and Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited, which is a 49.97% shareholder of Hutchison
Whampoa Limited, owned approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock as of
December 31, 2005, and have the right to appoint three representatives to our
Board of Directors.  Ian F. Wade and
Dominic Kai Ming Lai are Hutchison Whampoa Limited’s representatives on our
Board of Directors.  Cheung Kong
(Holdings) Limited currently has no representative on our Board of Directors,
however, it retains its right to appoint an additional director in the future.  These stockholders could exert significant
influence over us and our strategic direction, and deter or prevent certain
fundamental transactions involving our company.

 

In June 2000, we entered
into definitive agreements with subsidiaries of Hutchison Whampoa Limited to
introduce our services to several Asian markets.  Under the terms of the agreements we license
our business model and provide our expertise in technology, marketing and
operations to Hutchison-Priceline Limited. 
Hutchison-Priceline Limited reimburses us for the cost of services
provided and is required to pay us a licensing fee for any year in which
Hutchison-Priceline Limited achieves profitability.  We and Hutchison Whampoa Limited currently
own approximately 15% and 85%, respectively, of the outstanding equity
securities of Hutchison-Priceline Limited. 
Jeffery H. Boyd, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is
priceline.com’s representative on the board of directors of Hutchison-Priceline
Limited.

 

In May 2004, we filed a
shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission
covering up to 10 million shares of priceline.com common stock held by
Hutchison Whampoa Limited and Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited.  Any sale of a significant number of shares by
these stockholders could cause our stock price to decline significantly.

 

Fluctuations in our financial results make quarterly
comparisons and financial forecasting difficult.

 

Our
revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to
quarter because our business experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect
seasonal trends for the travel services offered by our websites. Traditional
leisure travel bookings in the United States are higher in the second and third
calendar quarters of the year as consumers take spring and summer vacations. In
the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year, demand for travel services
in the United States generally declines and the number of bookings
flattens.  Travel revenues in Europe, on the other hand, have been higher
in the third and fourth quarters than in the first and second quarters. 
Furthermore, prior to introducing a retail travel option to our customers,
substantially all of our business was conducted under the Name Your Own Price® system and
accordingly, because those services are non-refundable in nature, we recognize
travel revenue at the time a booking was generated.  We recognize revenue
generated from our retail hotel service, however, including our European
operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  As a
result, we have seen and expect to continue to see, that a meaningful amount of
retail hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and
reserve their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized until future quarters. 
This could result in a disproportionate amount of our annual earnings being
recognized in later quarters.

 

Our
results may also be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the inventory made
available to us by airlines, hotels and rental car suppliers. Our revenues and
operating results may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter
because of these factors. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our
revenues and operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, due to our limited
operating history, a relatively new and unproven business model and an
uncertain environment in the travel industry, it may be difficult to predict
our future revenues or results of operations.

 

Because
of these fluctuations and uncertainties, our operating results may fail to meet
the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the
trading price of our common stock would almost certainly be materially
adversely affected.

 

29












 

If we lose our key personnel or cannot recruit
additional personnel, our business may suffer.

 

We
depend on the continued services and performance of our executive officers and
other key personnel. These individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and
skills with respect to priceline.com and our operations. We do not have “key
person” life insurance policies. Our ability to retain key employees could be
materially adversely affected by the decline in the market price of our common
stock, limitations on our ability to pay cash compensation that is equivalent
to cash paid by traditional businesses or, in some instances, larger or better
capitalized competitors, and limitations imposed by our employee benefit plans
on our ability to issue additional equity incentives. If we do not succeed in
attracting new employees or retaining and motivating current and future
employees or executive officers, our business could suffer significantly.

 

The adoption by FASB of FASB Statement No. 123
(Revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS 123(R)”) will negatively impact
our reported business results.

 

As more fully discussed in
Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we were required to adopt SFAS
123(R) as of January 1, 2006.  SFAS
123(R) will have a significant impact on our Consolidated Statement of Operations
as we will be required to expense the fair value of our stock option grants
rather than disclose the pro forma impact on our consolidated operations within
our footnotes.  Upon adoption of SFAS
123(R), the impact of unvested stock options outstanding as of December 31,
2005 is estimated to increase personnel expense by approximately $6.0 million
in 2006, $2.5 million in 2007 and $0.5 million in 2008.

 

Our financial results will be materially impacted by
income taxes in the future.

 

For
the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, we recorded an income tax benefit of
approximately $156 million.  This
principally resulted from a non-cash tax benefit recorded in the third quarter
of 2005 of $171 million, relating to the reversal of a portion of our valuation
allowance on our deferred tax assets. The non-cash tax benefit was recorded
pursuant to the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
109, that require a company to release a portion of its deferred tax asset
valuation allowance when it becomes more likely than not that it will realize
all or some portion of its deferred tax assets. Due to our significant net
operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to pay cash taxes on our U.S.
federal taxable income for the foreseeable future.  As a result of the reversal, we recorded a
mostly non-cash $12.5 million provision for U.S. income tax expense in our
consolidated financial statements in 2005, and will continue to record a
non-cash provision for U.S. income tax expense in future periods.  This non-cash U.S. income tax provision will
materially negatively impact net income and earnings per share in subsequent
periods as compared to prior periods.  
We expect to make cash tax payments for U.S. alternative minimum taxes
and for certain international taxes.

 

Our stock price is highly volatile.

 

The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and is likely
to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as
the following, some of which are beyond our control:

 

•                  quarterly variations in
our operating results;

 

•                  operating results that
vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;

 

•                  changes in expectations
as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by
securities analysts and investors;

 

•                  changes in our capital
structure;

 

•                  changes in market
valuations of other Internet or online service companies;

 

30












 

•                  announcements of
technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors;

 

•                  announcements by us or
our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships,
joint ventures or capital commitments;

 

•                  loss of a major supplier
participant, such as an airline or hotel chain;

 

•                  changes in the status of
our intellectual property rights;

 

•                  lack of success in the
expansion of our business model geographically;

 

•                  announcements by third
parties of significant claims or proceedings against us or adverse developments
in pending proceedings;

 

•                  additions or departures
of key personnel; and

 

•                  stock market price and
volume fluctuations.

 

Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could
adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large
number of sellers to the market. Given the volatility that exists for our
shares, such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline
significantly. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our
price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum,
hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks
rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when
viewed on a quarterly basis.

 

The trading prices of Internet company stocks in general, including
ours, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. To the extent
that the public’s perception of the prospects of Internet or e-commerce
companies is negative, our stock price could decline further, regardless of our
results. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price
of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Market
fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a
recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, also may decrease the
market price of our common stock. 
Negative market conditions could adversely affect our ability to raise
additional capital.

 

We are defendants in a number of securities class action litigations.
In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against
a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its
securities. To the extent our stock price declines or is volatile, we may in
the future be the target of additional litigation. This additional litigation
could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and
resources.

 

We are party to legal
proceedings which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us.

 

We are a party to the legal proceedings described
in Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  The defense of the actions described in Note
19 may increase our expenses and an adverse outcome in any of such actions
could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our
business.

 

The products and services we offer through the priceline.com service
are regulated by federal and state governments. Our ability to provide such
products and services is and will continue to be affected by such regulations.
The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of
existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur
significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to
become impractical and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  See “Uncertainty
regarding state and local taxes.”

 

31












 

The
priceline.com Website

 

We maintain a website
with the address www.priceline.com.  We
are not including the information contained on our website as a part of, or
incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We make available free of charge through our
website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and
Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  These reports and other
information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 
Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC
at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be
obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

 

Item 1B