Item 1A of this Annual Report; therefore, actual results may
differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such
forward-looking statements.

 

Expressions
of future goals, expectations and similar expressions including, without
limitation, “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “does not currently
expect,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,”
“predicts,” “potential,” “targets,” or “continue,” reflecting something other
than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our
actual results could differ materially from those described in the
forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face
which are more fully described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”  Unless required by law, we undertake no
obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should
carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time
with the SEC, particularly our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current
reports on Form 8-K.

 

PART I

 

Item 1.  Business

 

General

 

Priceline.com
Incorporated (“priceline.com,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is a leading
online travel company that offers our customers a broad range of travel
services, including hotel rooms, car rentals, airline tickets, vacation
packages, cruises and destination services. Internationally, we offer our
customers hotel room reservations in over 90 countries and 32 languages. 
In the United States, we offer our customers a unique choice: the ability to
purchase travel services in a traditional, price-disclosed manner or the
opportunity to use our unique Name Your Own
Price® service, which allows our customers to make offers for
travel services at discounted prices.

 

We
launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com
brand and have since expanded our operations to include, among others, the
brands Booking.com worldwide and Agoda in Asia.  Our principal goal is to
be the leading worldwide online hotel reservation service.  Our business
is driven primarily by international results. 
During the year ended December 31, 2009, our international business
— the significant majority of which is currently generated by Booking.com —
represented approximately 61% of our gross bookings (an operating and
statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, inclusive of all taxes
and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately
75% of our consolidated operating income. 
Given that our international business is primarily comprised of hotel
reservation services, commissions earned in connection with the reservation of
hotel room nights has come to represent a substantial majority of our gross
profit.

 

Because
our domestic services include merchant Name
Your Own Price® travel services, which are reported on a
“gross” basis, while both our domestic and international retail travel services
are primarily recorded on a “net” basis, revenue increases and decreases are
impacted by changes in the mix of the sale of Name
Your Own Price® and retail travel services and, consequently,
gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth
in our business.  At present, we derive
substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources:

 

·                  Commissions earned from the sale of
price-disclosed hotel room reservations, rental cars, cruises and other travel
services;

 

1












Table of Contents

 

·                  Transaction gross profit and customer
processing fees from our Name Your Own Price® hotel
room, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as our vacation packages
service;

 

·                  Transaction gross profit and customer
processing fees from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room service;

 

·                  Global distribution system (“GDS”)
reservation booking fees related to both our Name
Your Own Price® airline ticket, hotel room and rental car
services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and

 

·                  Other gross profit derived primarily from
selling advertising on our websites.

 

For
the year ended December 31, 2009, we had gross profit of approximately
$1.26 billion comprised of “agency” gross profit, “merchant” gross profit, and
“other” gross profit.  Agency gross
profit is derived from travel related transactions where we are not the
merchant of record and where the prices of our services are determined by third
parties. Agency gross profit, which represented the
substantial majority of our total gross profit in 2009, consisted of: (1) travel
commissions; (2) customer processing fees; and (3) GDS reservation booking
fees related to certain of the services listed above.  Merchant gross profit is derived from
transactions where we are the merchant of record and, among other things,
select suppliers and determine the price we will accept from the customer.  Merchant gross profit consisted of: (1) transaction
gross profit representing revenue charged to a customer, less the cost of
revenue amount charged by suppliers in connection with the reservations
provided through our Name Your Own Price® hotel
room, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as through our price-disclosed
vacation packages services; (2) transaction gross profit representing the
amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in
connection with the hotel room reservations provided through our merchant
price-disclosed hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in
connection with the sale of Name Your Own Price®
airline tickets, hotel room reservations and rental cars and merchant
price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS
reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above.  Other revenues are derived primarily from
advertising on our websites.

 

Priceline.com
was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted
into a Delaware corporation in July 1998. 
Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the
symbol “PCLN.”  Our principal executive
offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.

 

The priceline.com Business
Model

 

We
offer customers the ability to make hotel reservations on a worldwide
basis primarily under the Booking.com and Agoda brands internationally and
primarily under the priceline.com brand in the United States.  In the United States, we also offer customers
the ability to purchase other travel services, including airline tickets,
rental car days, vacations packages, destination services and cruises, through
both a traditional, price-disclosed “retail” manner, and through our
proprietary demand-collection system known as Name Your
Own Price®.  These
services are made available over the Internet through websites that we own or
control, and are provided by major travel suppliers, including more than 78,000
hotel properties worldwide.  We believe
that the combination of our retail price-disclosed model and our Name Your Own Price® model allows us to provide a broad array of
options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with diverse streams
of revenue. 

 

2












Table of
Contents

 

International: Price-Disclosed Hotel Services.  We offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel
service in Europe, Asia and elsewhere through our international operations,
which consist primarily of Booking.com
B.V., one of the world’s leading Internet hotel reservation services, with more
than twenty offices worldwide, Booking.com Limited, a Cambridge,
England-based Internet hotel reservation distributor (together with Booking.com B.V., “Booking.com”), and priceline.com
Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as the Agoda Company, Ltd.), an Internet hotel distributor with operations primarily
in Singapore and Thailand (“Agoda”).  We
work with over 78,000 chain-owned and independently owned hotels in 84
countries offering hotel reservations on various websites and in 32
languages.  For geographic related information, see Note 19 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

Our
international business — the significant majority of which is currently
generated by Booking.com — represented approximately 61% of our gross bookings
(an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value,
inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our
customers) in the year ended December 31, 2009, and contributed
approximately 75% of our consolidated operating income during that period.  Given that our international business is
primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, revenue earned in connection
with the reservation of hotel room nights has come to represent the substantial
majority of our gross profit.

 

United States: Name Your Own Price® Travel Services.  We have developed a unique pricing system
known as a “demand collection system” that uses the information sharing and
communications power of the Internet to create a different way of pricing
services.  We believe our services have
created a balance between the interests of buyers, who are willing to accept
trade-offs in order to save money, and sellers, who are prepared to generate
incremental revenue by selling their services at below retail prices, provided
that they can do so without disrupting their existing distribution channels or
retail pricing structures.  Our demand
collection system allows consumers to specify the price they are prepared to
pay when submitting an offer for a particular leisure travel service.  We then access databases in which
participating suppliers file secure discounted rates not generally available to
the public, to determine whether we can fulfill the customer’s offer and decide
whether we want to accept the offer at the price designated by the
consumer.  For most of these
transactions, we have discretion in supplier selection and are the merchant of
record in the transaction.  Consumers
agree to hold their offers open for a specified period of time to enable us to
determine whether we can or want to accept the offer.  Once fulfilled, offers generally cannot be
canceled — thereby making such purchases generally non-refundable.  This system uses the flexibility of buyers to
enable sellers to accept a lower price in order to sell their excess
capacity.  We believe that our demand
collection system addresses limitations inherent in traditional seller-driven
pricing mechanisms in a manner that offers substantial benefits to both buyers
and sellers.  We believe that the
principal advantages of our system include the following:

 

·                  Cost
Savings.  Our Name Your Own Price® demand collection system allows consumers to
save money in a simple and compelling way. 
Buyers effectively trade off flexibility about brands, service features
and/or sellers in return for prices that are generally lower than those that
can be obtained at that time through traditional retail distribution channels.

 

·                  Incremental
Revenue for Sellers.  Sellers use
our Name Your Own Price® demand collection system as a revenue
management tool to generate incremental revenue without disrupting their
existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.  We require

 

3












Table of
Contents

 

consumers to be flexible with respect to brands and service
features.  As a result, our Name Your Own Price® system does not reveal sellers’ brands to
customers prior to the consummation of a transaction, thereby protecting their
brand integrity.  This shielding of brand
identity and price enables sellers to sell services at discounted prices
without cannibalizing their own retail sales by publicly announcing discount
prices and without competing against their own distributors.

 

·                  Proprietary
Seller Networks.  We have
assembled proprietary networks of industry leading sellers that represent high
quality brands.  By establishing
attractive networks of seller participants with reputations for quality, scale
and national presence, we believe that we foster increased participation by
both buyers and sellers.

 

We
often refer to services offered through our Name
Your Own Price® service as “opaque” services because all
aspects of the travel service are not visible to the consumer before making an
offer.

 

United States: Retail Travel Services.  In the United States, we offer customers the
ability to purchase price-disclosed hotel rooms, rental car days, airline
tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises at retail prices.  In these transactions, the customer typically
selects airline flights, hotel reservations, rental car or other travel
itineraries from an array of results produced in response to the customer’s
request.  These results usually include
the identity of the travel supplier, the exact price of the itinerary, and other
details relating to the itineraries.  In
some circumstances, the customer pays us at the time of reservation, and in
other circumstances, the customer pays the travel supplier directly at the time
of travel.

 

The priceline.com Strategy

 

The
online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth
as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive
online channels.  Priceline.com has been
a leader in the hotel reservation market internationally and in the deep
discount segment of this market in the United States.  Our strategy is to continue to participate
broadly in online travel growth by expanding our service offerings and markets.

 

·                  Become the
Leading Worldwide Online Hotel Reservation Service.  The size of the travel market outside of the
United States is substantially greater than that within the United States.  Historically, Internet penetration rates and
e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the
United States.  However, international
consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent international online
travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue
to exceed, the growth rates within the United States.  Prior to 2004, substantially all of our
revenues were generated within the United States.  For the year ended December 31, 2009,
our international business — the significant majority of which is currently
generated by Booking.com — represented approximately 61% of our gross bookings,
and contributed approximately 75% of our consolidated operating income during
that period.  We expect that our
international operations will represent a growing percentage of our total gross
bookings and operating income (before taking into account the offsetting
impacts of foreign exchange, if any) over the long term.  Because of what we believe to be superior
growth rate opportunities associated with international online travel, we
intend to continue to invest resources to increase the share of our revenues
represented by international consumers and capitalize on international travel
demand.

 

We
believe that the positioning of our Booking.com hotel reservation service gives
us a foothold into a broader international market.  We intend to use Agoda, the online hotel
distributor with operations primarily in Singapore and Thailand, which we
acquired in 2007, to further develop our operations throughout Asia, where
Internet penetration and e-commerce adoption are growing at a substantially
greater pace than in the United States over the last several years.  We have begun, and intend to continue,
development of the means to share hotel availability among our brands, which we
believe will allow us to monetize demand across international markets.  In addition, from time to time we explore
strategic transactions and acquisitions that, among other things, allow us to
provide our services to new markets.  We
believe that by promoting our brands worldwide, sharing hotel supply and
customer flow and applying our industry experiences in the United States and
Europe to other international regions, we can further expand our service
internationally and become the leading worldwide online hotel reservation
service.

 

4












Table of
Contents

 

·                  Continue to
be One of the Top Online Travel Businesses in North America for Value-Conscious
Leisure Travelers.  Our Name Your Own Price® demand collection system in the United States
allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling way.  Buyers effectively trade off flexibility
about brands, service features and/or sellers in return for prices that are lower
than those that can be obtained at that time through traditional retail
distribution channels.  We have expended
significant resources to allow us to introduce price-disclosed retail services
in the United States to our consumers to compliment the Name Your Own Price® service. 
We believe that by offering a “one-stop-shopping” solution to our
customers, we can simultaneously fulfill the needs of those customers who are
prepared to accept the unique restrictions of our Name Your Own Price® service in exchange for receiving significant
savings relative to retail prices, as well as those customers who are less
price sensitive and require the certainty of knowing the full details of their
travel itinerary prior to purchasing.  In
June 2007, we eliminated booking fees on price-disclosed retail airline
tickets as part of our strategy to provide value to our customers, and in 2008,
we reduced price-disclosed hotel booking fees and eliminated priceline.com hotel
change fees.

 

We
intend to enhance our service offerings continually, particularly our retail
offerings, by adding competitive functionality, adding travel selection at
competitive pricing, adding and improving the content and merchandising on our
website as well as “cross-sell” opportunities (for example, offering a hotel
customer the opportunity to add a rental car reservation to the transaction) to
maximize customer conversion.

 

·                  Competitive
functionality: We continue to expend significant resources to
remain competitive in terms of the features and functionality we offer our
customers.  For example, since launching
our domestic retail air service, we added the ability to search for flexible
dates or alternative airports, book one-way and multi-destination itineraries
and easily make modifications to search criteria.  In addition, we offer a personal experience,
where individualized content, such as special deals or favorite hotels, can be
presented based upon preferences set by the customer or a customer’s previous
activity on one of our sites. In 2009, we launched the priceline Hotel
Negotiator iPhone application, which allows travelers to book a Name Your Own Price® or price-disclosed hotel room reservations
over the iphone.

 

·                  Competitive
selection and pricing: We believe that having a wide selection of
travel options at competitive pricing is critical to our success.  For example, we have eliminated booking fees
on price-disclosed retail airline tickets, reduced price-disclosed hotel
booking fees and eliminated hotel change fees. 
We have also added thousands of additional hotels to our domestic and
international hotel services. In addition, we have renewed or entered into new
agreements with several of our major airline and hotel suppliers, which we
believe has improved our access to a better selection of travel alternatives
and pricing.

 

·                  Content
and merchandising: As part of our evolution to a “one-stop-shopping”
website, we have added thousands of pages of content to allow customers to
research destinations and hotel properties before booking a reservation.  We offer property descriptions, maps, images,
and user reviews whereby our customers can benefit from the experiences and
opinions of other customers.  In the
United States, we offer “PriceBreakerssm,” which is a presentation of selected travel itineraries
at discounted prices that is updated frequently.  In 2009, we introduced a
priceline.com-branded credit card that allows customers to earn points based on
purchases, including those made on our website. 
We intend to continue to improve our content and merchandising with more
comprehensive descriptions, more and higher quality images, and more user
reviews, which we believe will improve conversion of users shopping on our
website.

 

5












Table of
Contents

 

·                  Cross-sell opportunities: We also
cross-sell different travel components to maximize the revenue we generate from
each customer in the United States.  We
have developed and implemented functionality that allows customers to “add-on”
travel components to their selection, both during the shopping experience and
at time of purchase.  For example,
customers can add a rental car reservation to their air or hotel reservation,
or a hotel reservation to their air reservation.  Customers can also add destination related
services such as shuttles, tours and activities.  Additionally, we cross-sell opaque services
on our retail path and retail services on our opaque path.  For example, an unsuccessful opaque air
customer may be offered a price-disclosed alternative, while a retail hotel
shopper may be offered the Name Your Own
Price® alternative for greater
savings.  In addition, personalized
cross-sell offers can appear on the priceline.com homepage when a customer
has an upcoming trip.  We intend to
further enhance these cross-sell opportunities across all of our services.

 

We
strive to be the preferred discount distribution channel in the United States
for airlines, hotels and rental car companies. 
Our Name Your Own Price® service protects supplier brand and published
pricing and our packages and other merchandising provide access to the brand
neutral leisure traveler at attractive distribution costs.

 

Service Offerings – International

 

Retail Hotels.  We offer a retail,
price-disclosed hotel service worldwide, primarily through our Booking.com and
Agoda brands.  We work with over 78,000 chain-owned and independently owned hotels in 84 countries
offering hotel reservations on various websites and in 32 languages.  Hotels participate in Booking.com, which
operates under an agency model, and Agoda, which operates primarily under a
merchant model, by filing rates in our proprietary extranet.  Hotels may also participate in Agoda via
consolidator relationships.

 

Service Offerings – United States

 

Name Your Own Price® Hotels.  Through our Name
Your Own Price® hotel room reservation
service, customers can make reservations at hotel properties in substantially
all major cities and metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant national hotel chains as well
as several important real estate investment trusts and independent property
owners participate in our Name Your Own
Price® service. 
Hotels participate by filing secure private discounted rates with
related rules in a global distribution system database.  These specific rates generally are not
available to the general public or to consolidators and other discount
distributors who sell to the public, however, hotel participants may make
similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under
other arrangements.

 

To
make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the city and neighborhood in
which the customer wants to stay, (2) the dates on which the customer
wishes to check in and check out, (3) the “class” of service (1, 2, 2½, 3,
3½, 4, 5-star or “resort”), (4) the price the customer is willing to pay,
and (5) the customer’s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to
stay at any one of our participating hotel partners and accept a reservation
that cannot be refunded or changed.  The
target market for our Name Your Own Price® hotel room reservation service is the leisure
travel market.

 

Retail Hotels.  We also operate a price-disclosed hotel
service in the United States that enables our customers to select the exact
hotel they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to
booking.

 

6











Table of Contents

 

Name Your Own Price® Rental Cars.  Our Name
Your Own Price® rental car service is currently available in
substantially all major United States airport markets.  The top five brand name airport rental car
companies in the United States are seller participants in our rental car
program.  Consumers can access our
website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind of car
they want to rent (e.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the price
they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine
whether to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates and rules.  If a customer’s offer is accepted, we will
immediately reserve the rental car, charge the customer’s credit card and
notify the customer of the rental car company and location providing the rental
car.

 

Retail Rental Cars.  We also offer a price-disclosed rental car
service on www.priceline.com that enables our customers in the United
States to choose between price-disclosed or Name
Your Own Price® rental cars. 
Our price-disclosed rental car service operates under the “agency”
model, under which we earn a commission upon rental car return, and accommodates
one-way and off-airport reservations.  As with our retail airline
ticket and hotel reservation services, rental car reservations booked in a
retail manner do not have the restrictions associated with our Name
Your Own Price® service. 
Customers can select the exact car they want to book and the price of
the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.

 

Name Your Own Price® Airline
Tickets.  There are a total of 10
domestic airlines and 20 international airlines participating in our Name Your Own Price® airline ticket service.

 

Our
Name Your Own Price® airline ticket service operates in a manner
similar to our Name Your Own Price® hotel room reservation service.  To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the
origin and destination of the trip, (2) the dates on which the customer
wishes to depart and return, (3) the price the customer is willing to pay,
and (4) the customer’s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree
to:

 

·                  fly on any one
of our participating airline partners;

 

·                  leave at any
time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of
departure and return;

 

·                  purchase only
round trip coach class tickets between the same two points of departure and
return;

 

·                  accept at least
one stop or connection;

 

·                  receive no
frequent flier miles or upgrades; and

 

·                  accept tickets
that cannot be refunded or changed.

 

If
a customer’s offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably
close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy
the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing
certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being
accepted.  For example, in some cases we
disclose to the customer that agreeing to fly into an alternate airport would
increase the chances of his or her offer being accepted.  In other cases, we inform the customer that
increasing his or her offer by a certain amount would increase the chances of
it being accepted.  We may also offer a
customer the opportunity to purchase a price-disclosed retail airline ticket.

 

Retail Airline Tickets.  We also offer our customers in the United
States the ability to purchase retail airline tickets at disclosed prices and
with disclosed itineraries.  The airline
sets the retail price paid by the consumer and is the merchant of record for
the transaction.  These airline tickets
do not have the restrictions associated with our Name Your
Own Price® service. 
For example, in addition to having fully

 

7












Table of Contents

 

disclosed itineraries, retail airline tickets are generally changeable
and cancellable for a fee.  In June 2007,
we eliminated booking fees we had previously charged on the sale of published
price retail airline tickets.

 

With
respect to each of our airline, hotel and rental car services, we believe the
combination of our Name Your Own Price® model and the retail model
allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers,
while providing us with diverse streams of revenue.

 

Vacation Packages.  Our vacation package service allows consumers
in the United States to purchase packages consisting of airfare,
hotel and rental car components. 
Consumers can select the exact hotel or resort that they want to
reserve, and then select either a retail airline ticket or an opaque airline
ticket for the air component of their package. 
Vacation packages are sold at disclosed prices, although consumers
cannot determine the exact price of the individual components on our website.

 

Destination Services.  We currently offer customers in the United
States the opportunity to purchase destination services such as parking, event
tickets, ground transfers, tours and other services available at their travel
destinations.  This service is offered to
consumers as part of the process of booking an air, hotel, rental car and vacation
reservation, and also as a standalone service.

 

Cruises.  We
also offer price-disclosed cruise trips through World Travel Holdings, Inc.
(“WTH”), an agent representing major cruise lines.  Our cruise service allows consumers in the United
States to search for and compare cruise pricing and availability information
from 20 cruise lines, and to purchase cruises online or through a call center
by selecting from our published offerings and prices.  We receive commissions from WTH on successful
cruise bookings.

 

Travel Insurance.  We offer our air, hotel and vacation package
customers in the United States an optional travel insurance package that
provides coverage for, among other things, trip cancellation, trip
interruption, medical expenses, emergency evacuation, and loss of baggage,
property and travel documents.  We also offer our rental car customer in
the United States the opportunity to purchase collision damage waiver
insurance.  The travel insurance is
arranged for by BerkelyCare, a division of Affinity Insurance Services, Inc.
and underwritten by Stonebridge Casualty Insurance Company, an AEGON Company.
 We retain a fee for every optional insurance package purchased by our
customers.

 

While
we are currently focused on the travel services described above, over time, we
may evaluate the introduction of other services that we believe could enhance
the travel experience of our customers.

 

Marketing and Brand
Awareness

 

Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda have established widely used and
recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotion
campaigns.  During 2009, our total online
advertising expenses were approximately $365.4 million, a substantial portion
of which was spent internationally through Internet search engines and online
affiliate marketing.  We also invested
approximately $36.3 million in priceline.com-branded offline advertising in the
United States.  We intend to continue a
marketing strategy to promote brand awareness and the concept that consumers
can save money using our services. 
Underlying our marketing strategy is our belief that our target market
is all consumers, not just Internet-savvy consumers.  We intend to continue to promote the
Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands aggressively throughout 2010.

 

As
our international operations have become more meaningful contributors to our
results, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in our
advertising expense.  Specifically,
because our international operations utilize Internet search engines and online
affiliate marketing, principally through the purchase of travel-related
keywords, as principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our

 

8












Table of Contents

 

online
advertising expense has increased significantly since our acquisition of those
companies, a trend we expect to continue throughout 2010.

 

Competition

 

We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we
offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and
current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. In
addition, the major online travel companies with which we compete may have
significantly greater financial resources and capital than we do.  We may not be able to effectively compete
with industry conglomerates such as Expedia, Orbitz Worldwide or Sabre, each of
which has larger gross travel bookings than we do and may have access to
significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do.

 

We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with
respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these
competitors include, but are not limited to:

 

·                  Internet travel services
such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are owned by Expedia, and
Venere, an Italian-based agency hotel reservation service provider that was
acquired by Expedia in the third quarter of 2008; Travelocity and
lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets,
ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are currently owned by Orbitz
Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui Travel, and Gullivers,
octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, Ctrip, Rakuten
and Wotif;

 

·                  travel suppliers such as
airlines, hotel companies and rental car companies, many of which have their
own branded websites to which they drive business;

 

·                  large online portal and
search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including
Bing Travel) and AOL (including AOL Travel);

 

·                  traditional travel
agencies, wholesalers and tour operators;

 

·                  online travel search sites
such as Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, Kayak.com and SideStep.com (each
sometimes referred to as “meta-search” sites) and travel research sites that
have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com;
and

 

·                  operators of travel
industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre.

 

Certain of our major competitors
have matched our elimination and/or reduction of processing fees associated
with some of our travel services.  In
June 2007, we eliminated processing fees for our price-disclosed airline ticket
service, and in April 2008, we reduced processing fees for our domestic
price-disclosed merchant hotel room service. 
As a result, since those dates, we had a pricing advantage against other
major online travel agents with respect to these travel services.  Starting in March 2009, Expedia also eliminated
air booking fees.  Later in March 2009,
Travelocity matched the Expedia change and in April 2009, Orbitz followed.  As a result, we no longer have the price
advantage that we have had against our major competitors on price-disclosed
airline tickets since June 2007. 
Similarly, in April 2009, each of Expedia and Orbitz reduced booking
fees on hotel room reservations, and we therefore no longer have a price
advantage over those companies on price-disclosed merchant hotel room reservations.  In addition, in May 2009, Orbitz announced a
price guarantee program under which a customer who books a prepaid hotel stay
will receive money back from Orbitz if another Orbitz customer books the exact
same stay in terms of room type, travel dates and number of travelers.  In addition, in October 2009, Travelocity
announced the waiver of its cancellation and change fees for hotel and vacation
packages, as well as an expanded hotel guarantee, under which consumers who
book a hotel room and then find a lower published rate for the same room
anytime before the day of check-in are eligible to receive a refund of the
difference.  Our business may be
adversely impacted as a result of no longer having a price advantage over our
direct competitors in the U.S., as seen in the fourth quarter 2009, where
domestic gross bookings growth decelerated from the previous quarter, and we
may be adversely impacted by future promotional initiatives by our competitors.

 

9












Table of Contents

 

In
addition, in March 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed
hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount
because, similar to our Name Your Own Price® hotel booking service, the name
of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase.  At this point, the
number of hotels available through Travelocity’s opaque hotel service is
limited.  However, Travelocity has experience
with offering opaque price-disclosed hotel room reservations in Europe through
its site, lastminute.com, and it is likely that it will use such experience to
grow the number of opaque hotel room reservations it makes available.  If Travelocity is successful in growing its
opaque hotel service, our share of the discount hotel market in the U.S. could
decrease.  In addition, we would have to compete with Travelocity for
access to hotel room supply and there is no guarantee that we would be able to
maintain successfully the access to opaque hotel supply which we currently
have.  If Travelocity’s opaque hotel service is successful, it may try to
offer opaque airline tickets and/or rental cars, each of which would expose us
to similar risks as the opaque hotel service.

 

Many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers, including
suppliers with which we conduct business, are focusing on driving online demand
to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us.  Certain suppliers have attempted to charge
additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online
channel other than their own website. 
Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively
through their own websites.  Suppliers
who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and,
in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or
loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers
than models like ours.

 

Large, established Internet
search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online
commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating – and intend to further
create – inroads into online travel.  For
example, Google recently launched Google City Tours,
an application that offers multi-day travel itineraries in destinations around
the world, and Microsoft recently launched Bing Travel, a
“meta-search” site, which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online
and predicts the best time to purchase them. 
“Meta-search” sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel
search results for the searcher’s specific itinerary across supplier, travel
agent and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for
customers.  These initiatives, among
others, illustrate Google’s and Bing’s clear intention to more directly appeal
to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel results,
including specific information for travelers’ own itineraries, which could lead
to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of Google’s or Bing’s traffic or
may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own
websites.  If Google, as the single
largest search engine in the world, or Bing or other leading search engines
refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop
in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from
supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites
such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results
of operations and financial condition.

 

Many of our current and
potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these
competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can.
In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly
greater resources to:

 

·                  marketing and promotional campaigns;

 

·                  attracting traffic to their websites;

 

·                  attracting and retaining key employees;

 

·                  securing vendors and supply; and

 

·                  website and systems development.

 

10












Table of Contents

 

Increased competition could result in reduced
operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our brand. There can be
no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and
future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Risk Factors — Intense competition could reduce our market share and
harm our financial performance.”

 

Operations and Technology

 

Our business is supported by
multiple systems platforms, which were designed with an emphasis on
scalability, performance and reliability. 
The platforms are largely independent among priceline com, Booking.com
and Agoda. The software platforms and architecture use a variety of tools
within each corporate implementation, including server-side Java, C++, ASP,
..NET and Perl, and SQL scripts integrated with Oracle MySQL and Microsoft
SQL-server relational database systems. 
These internal platforms were designed to include open application
protocol interfaces that can provide connectivity to vendors in the industries
in which we operate.  These include large
global systems, such as airline and hotel room reservation systems and
financial service providers, as well as individual suppliers, such as
individual hotels.  Our Internet servers
utilize digital certificates to help us conduct secure communications and transactions,
as appropriate.

 

The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our
international operations are primarily hosted at Equinix Europe Ltd. in London,
England, Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. and TelecityRedbus in the Netherlands and
NTT in Hong Kong. Each location has backup generators and infrastructure
typical of hosted data centers.

 

Our systems infrastructure and web and database servers in the U.S. are
hosted at SAVVIS in Jersey City, New Jersey, which provides communication
links, as well as 24-hour monitoring and engineering support.  SAVVIS has its own generator and multiple
back-up systems in Jersey City.  We also
maintain a second web hosting facility at AT&T in New York City.  Our network operations center monitors both
web hosting facilities and is located in our Norwalk, Connecticut
headquarters.  All three facilities have
a continuous power supply system, generators and redundant servers.  If SAVVIS were unable, for any reason, to
support our primary web hosting facility, we would need to activate our
secondary site at AT&T.

 

We outsource most of our domestic call center and customer service
functions, and use a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer
capabilities to our call centers and customer service centers.

 

Intellectual Property

 

We currently hold twenty issued United States patents, Nos. 5,794,207;
5,897,620; 6,085,169; 6,108,639; 6,134,534; 6,240,396; 6,332,129; 6,345,090;
6,356,878; 6,418,415; 6,466,919; 6,484,153; 6,510,418; 6,553,346; 6,993,503;
7,203,660; 7,188,176; 7,333,941; 7,386,508; 7,472,074 and over twenty pending
United States and foreign patent applications. 
All of our issued United States patents expire between September 4,
2016 and March 22, 2025.  We file
additional patent applications on new inventions, as appropriate.

 

While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent
applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that:

 

·                  a
third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us
from practicing features of our business or that will require us to pay for a
license to use those features;

 

·                  our
operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third
parties;

 

·                  any
patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third parties;

 

11












Table of Contents

 

·                  the
pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents;

 

·                  competitors
or potential competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that
are not covered by our patents or patent applications;

 

·                  because
of variations in the application of our business model to each of our services,
our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from
utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more
categories;

 

·                  new
prior art will not be discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate
an issued patent; or

 

·                  legislative
or judicial action will not directly or indirectly affect the scope and
validity of any of our patent rights.

 

There has been recent
discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called
“business method” patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark
Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable
to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a
direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if
any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications.  In addition, there has been recent discussion in various
federal court proceedings regarding the patentability and validity of so called
“business method” patents. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, in a
recent order in In re Bilski, has questioned whether it
should review its earlier decision affirming the patentability of so-called business
method patents in State Street Bank v. Signature Financial.  
We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision will
have on our issued patents or pending patent applications.  See “Risk Factors — We face
risks related to our intellectual property.”

 

We
hold the exclusive rights to the trade names and service marks PRICELINE® and PRICELINE.COM®  in the U.S. as well as
in many foreign countries.  We own U.S. Service Mark Registrations Nos.
2,481,750; 2,272,659; 2,594,582 for PRICELINE®, and 2,481,752; 2,594,592; and 2,481,112 for
PRICELINE.COM®, including all
attendant goodwill.  We also own U.S. Service Mark Registrations Nos.
2,647,673 for NAME YOUR OWN PRICE®; 2,481,751 for PRICELINEMORTGAGE®, 3,357,458 for  PRICELINE EUROPE® and
others. In addition, through our European subsidiary Booking.com BV, we
hold the registered service mark BOOKINGS in the European Union (“EU”)
(Registrations Nos. 3413846 and 3413952); the Netherlands (Benelux
Registrations Nos. 762051 and 762054); and France (French Registration No. 43276223.
Also held by priceline through Booking.com BV are French Registration No. 43276225
for BOOKING; EU Reg. No. 3859618 for ACTIVE HOTELS; and common law service mark rights in
BOOKING.COM in the United States.

 

We
aggressively monitor, protect and enforce our copyrights, service marks,
trademarks, trade dress, domain names and trade secrets on an ongoing basis
through a combination of laws and contractual restrictions, such as
confidentiality agreements.  For example, we endeavor to register our
trademarks and service marks in the United States and internationally,
currently holding over one-hundred-seventy-five service mark registrations
worldwide.  However, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade
secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services
are or may be made available online, regardless of our continuous efforts to
police and register our marks.  See, “Risk
Factors —- We face risks related to our intellectual property.”

 

We
currently own hundreds of Internet domain names in various top level domains,
particularly for purposes of deterring service mark infringement.  Domain
names are generally regulated by Internet regulatory bodies such as the World
Intellectual Property Organization.  The relationship between trademark
and unfair competition laws and domain name registration is evolving.  The
Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act in the U.S. and the Uniform Domain
Name Dispute Resolution Policy of the

 

12












Table of Contents

 

Internet
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers have both significantly enhanced
our  ability to deter the infringing incorporation
of trademarks into domain names by third parties and to assert our
registrations against them.  We actively pursue significant infringers as
appropriate, including cybersquatters and typosquatters who misappropriate our
service marks and misspellings thereof as domain names for commercial purposes,
in order to maintain our famous marks and prevent the dilution of their
distinctiveness.  See, “Risk Factors —
We face risks related to our intellectual property.”

 

Governmental Regulation

 

The
services we provide are subject to various federal, state and local
regulations. For example, our travel service is subject to laws governing the
offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register
as a “seller of travel.”  In addition,
our services may be subject to various state and local taxing regulations.  See “Risk Factors — Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes”.

 

We are subject to federal, state and international laws that require
protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel
transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable
data, both in the United States, Europe and Asia.  This data is increasingly subject to
legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world,
including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection
Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European
Union.  Such government action is
typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected,
processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.

 

All
of our services are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and
regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices.

 

We
are also subject to regulations applicable to businesses conducting online
commerce.  Presently, there are
relatively few laws specifically directed toward online services. However, due
to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, it is
possible that laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet
or online services. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as
online contracts, user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content
and quality of services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights
and information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws
governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual
property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy is developing,
but any such new legislation could have significant implications on how we
conduct online business. In addition, some states may require us to qualify in
that state to do business as a foreign corporation because our service is
available in that state over the Internet. Although we are qualified to do
business in a number of states, failure to meet the qualifications of certain
states, or a determination that we are required to qualify in additional
states, could subject us to taxes and penalties.  See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and legal uncertainties
could harm our business,” and
“Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes.”

 

Our
international operations are subject to various foreign regulations and
governing bodies that might limit their services. They may be affected by
unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and various tariffs and trade
barriers in connection with online commerce. Any failure by our international
operations to comply may have an adverse effect on our business.

 

Seasonality

 

Our
Name Your Own Price® services are non-refundable in nature, and
accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is
generated.  However, we recognize revenue
generated from our retail hotel services, including our international
operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  As a result, a meaningful amount of retail
hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve
their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized until future
quarters. From a cost perspective, however, we expense the substantial majority
of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the
quarter in which bookings are generated.

 

13












Table of Contents

 

Therefore, as our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect
our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal
factors.

 

Employees

 

As of January 31, 2010,
we employed approximately 2,010 full-time employees, of which 493 are based in
the United States and 1,517 are based in our international offices. We also
retain independent contractors to support our customer service and system
support functions.

 

We
have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by
any collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to
be good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to
attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and
managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.

 

The
priceline.com Websites

 

We maintain websites with the addresses www.booking.com,
www.priceline.com and www.agoda.com, among others.  We are not including the information
contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into,
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We
make available free of charge through the www.priceline.com website our Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  These reports and other
information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 
Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC
at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may
be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the priceline.com Incorporated
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available through the www.priceline.com
website and any amendments to or waivers from the Code of Ethics will be
disclosed on that website.

 

14











Table of Contents

 

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

 

The following risk factors and other
information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered.  The risks and uncertainties described below
are not the only ones we face. 
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also
impair our business operations.  If any
of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results
and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.

 

Our international operations face risks
related to their growth rate and expansion.

 

Throughout 2007, 2008 and
2009, our international operations
experienced significant year-over-year growth in their gross bookings (an
operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, inclusive
of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers) and
hotel room night reservations.  This
growth rate has contributed significantly to our growth in revenue, gross
profit and earnings per share.  Over
time, our international operations will experience a decline in their growth
rate as the absolute level of their gross bookings and unit sales grow larger.  For example, year-to-date in 2010, we have
seen a deceleration in year-over-year growth rates for hotel room night
reservations as compared to growth rates in the fourth quarter of 2009.  Other factors may also slow the growth rates
of our international business,
including, for example, the impact of the
worldwide recession, any strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the
Euro, declines in hotel average daily rates (“ADRs”), further increases in
cancellations, travel market conditions and the competitiveness of the
market.  A decline in our international operations’ growth rate
could have a negative impact on our future revenue and earnings per share
growth rates and, as a consequence, our stock price.

 

The strategy of our international operations involves rapid
expansion into countries in Europe, including eastern Europe, Asia, North
America and South America and elsewhere, many of which have different customs,
different levels of customer acceptance of the Internet and different
legislation, regulatory environments, tax laws and levels of political
stability.  In addition, compliance with
foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time
and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially
adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. 
If our international operations are unsuccessful in rapidly expanding into other countries, our
business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely
affected.

 

We are
dependent on the leisure travel industry and certain travel suppliers.

 

Our financial prospects are
significantly dependent upon our sale of leisure travel services.  Leisure travel, including the sale of hotel
room reservations and leisure airline tickets, is dependent on
personal discretionary spending levels. As a result, sales of leisure travel
services tend to decline during general economic downturns and recessions.  Accordingly, the current worldwide recession
has led to a weakening in the fundamental demand for our services and an increase
in the number of customers who cancel existing travel reservations with
us.  In addition, unforeseen events
beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, travel related health
concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as H1N1 influenza (swine flu),
avian bird flu and SARS, political instability,
regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or
surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents and unusual
weather patterns, including natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis or
earthquakes, also may adversely affect the leisure travel industry and our
business and results of operations.  For
example, in 2008, civil unrest in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda
business, negatively impacted booking volumes at the time, and future civil or
political unrest would further disrupt Agoda’s business.  In addition, an outbreak of
Influenza H1N1 could disrupt our workforce or the workforces of suppliers or
third-party service providers upon which we rely.  Further, work
stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major airlines could materially
adversely affect the airline industry and, as a consequence, have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

During the year ended December 31,
2009, Name Your Own Price® hotel room night reservations from our five largest
hotel suppliers accounted for approximately 68.5% of total Name Your Own Price® hotel room night reservations, and sales of airline
tickets from our five largest and two largest airline

 

15












Table
of Contents

 

suppliers accounted for approximately 76.7% and 35.0%
of total airline tickets sold, respectively. As a result, we are currently
substantially dependent upon the continued participation of these suppliers in
our system in order to maintain and continue to grow our total gross profit.

 

Our arrangements with the
hotel, airline and rental car suppliers that participate in our system — either
Name Your Own Price® or price-disclosed service — generally do not
require them to provide any specific quantity of hotel room reservations, airline tickets or rental cars, or to make rooms, tickets or cars
available for any particular route, in any geographic area or at any particular
price.  During the course of our
business, we are in continuous dialogue with our major suppliers about the
nature and extent of their participation in our system. The significant
reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their participation in
our system for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

 

Since
the onset of the worldwide recession, the hotel industry has experienced a
significant decrease in occupancy rates and ADRs, and an increase in
reservation cancellation rates.  While
lower occupancy rates have historically resulted in hotel suppliers increasing
their distribution of hotel room reservations through third-party
intermediaries such as us, our remuneration for hotel transactions changes
proportionately with room price, and therefore, lower ADRs generally have a
negative effect on our hotel business and a negative effect on our gross
profit.

 

In addition, certain hotels
have begun initiatives to reduce margins received by third party intermediaries
on retail merchant transactions, which is the primary method we employ to
distribute retail hotel room reservations in the United States.  Many hotels distribute room reservations through their own websites and therefore might increase negotiated rates
for merchant rate hotel room reservations sold through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service, decreasing the
margin available to us.  While our
merchant price-disclosed hotel agreements with our leading hotel suppliers
provide for specified discounts, if one or more participating hotels were to
require us to limit our merchant margins, upon contract renewal or otherwise,
it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition.

 

With respect to our airline
suppliers, the airline industry has experienced a shift in market share from
full-service carriers to low-cost carriers that focus primarily on discount
fares to leisure destinations and we expect this trend to continue.  Some low-cost carriers, such as Southwest,
have not historically distributed their tickets through us or other third-party
intermediaries.  In addition, certain
airlines have significantly limited or eliminated sales of airline tickets
through opaque channels, preferring to consistently show the lowest available
price on their own website.  Certain
airlines have also significantly reduced their domestic capacity, which reduces
the number of airline tickets available to our customers.  Furthermore, we have recently observed a
year-over-year decline in passenger traffic and airfares across the airline
industry, which we believe is principally due to the worldwide recession.  Decreases in capacity and lower traveler demand negatively impact our
domestic air business, which in turn has negative repercussions on our domestic
hotel and rental car businesses, and could have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  Decreased airfares can
adversely

 

16












Table
of Contents

 

impact our Name Your Own Price® airline ticket sales by reducing the amount of
absolute dollar savings as compared to retail airline tickets.

 

We could be adversely
affected by changes in the airline industry, and, in many cases, we will have
no control over such changes or their timing. 
Recently, there has been an emerging prospect of domestic airline
industry consolidation, as evidenced by the recent merger between Delta Air
Lines and Northwest Airlines.  If one of
our major airline suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by,
another company that either does not participate in the priceline.com system or
that participates on substantially lower levels, the surviving company may
elect not to participate in our system or to participate at lower levels than
the previous supplier.  For example, in September 2005,
US Airways and America West merged.  US
Airways was a meaningful participant in our Name
Your Own Price® system, but America
West participated on a very limited basis. 
The resulting entity participates in our Name Your Own Price® system, but at
much lower levels than US Airways’ historical participation.

 

In addition, in the event
that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares
bankruptcy and is subsequently unable to successfully emerge from bankruptcy,
and we are unable to replace such supplier, our business would be adversely
affected.  For example, in April 2008,
Aloha Airlines and ATA Airlines each ceased operations and we experienced an
increase in credit card chargebacks from customers with tickets on those
airlines.  To the extent major U.S.
airlines that participate in our system declare bankruptcy or cease operations,
they may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their flights.  Our policy in such event is to direct
customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not to provide a
remedy ourselves. Because we are the merchant-of-record on sales of Name Your Own Price® airline tickets to our customers, however, we
could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or credit card
chargebacks from customers, which could materially adversely affect our
operations and financial results. In addition, because Name Your Own Price® customers do
not choose their airlines, hotels or rental car companies, the bankruptcy of a
major airline, hotel or rental car company, or even the possibility of such a
bankruptcy, could discourage customers from using our Name Your Own Price® system to book
travel.

 

The loss of any major
airline participant in our Name Your Own
Price® system could result
in other major airlines electing to terminate their participation in the Name Your Own Price® system, which
would further negatively impact our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  In addition, fewer
independent suppliers reduces opacity and competition among suppliers.  In such event, if we are unable to divert
sales to other suppliers, our business, results of operations and financial
condition may be adversely affected.

 

In addition, given the
concentration of the airline industry, particularly in the domestic market, our
competitors could exert pressure on other airlines not to supply us with
tickets. Moreover, the airlines may attempt to establish their own buyer driven
commerce service or participate or invest in other similar services.

 

United
Airlines recently began requiring certain travel agents to cease using United’s
merchant processing system for retail credit card transactions.  When accepting credit cards for payment, such
agents will have to use their own merchant accounts and settle with United with
cash.  By requiring such agents to act as
merchant of record, United passes the credit card processing costs onto the
travel agent.  United has not informed us
that we must cease using   United’s
merchant processing system for credit card transactions, however, if United or
another airline changes its policy with respect to us and requires us to act as
merchant of record for retail airline ticket transactions, we will incur
additional credit card processing costs and increased chargeback activity and
expense, including chargeback expense in connection with the bankruptcy of any
such airline.

 

If
one of our major rental car suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is
acquired by, another company that either does not participate in the
priceline.com system or that participates on substantially lower levels, the
surviving company may elect not to participate in our system or to participate
at lower

 

17












Table of Contents

 

levels
than the previous supplier.  The loss of any rental car supplier
participant in our Name Your Own Price® system could result in other rental car
suppliers electing to terminate or reduce their participation in the Name Your Own Price® system, which would negatively impact our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  Furthermore,
many major rental car companies are highly leveraged and the worldwide
recession creates the potential for severe financial difficulty, including
without limitation, the inability of a rental car company to refinance its
debt, restructure its operations or emerge from a bankruptcy, any of which
could lead to a reduction in rental car supply made available to us.  In addition, fewer independent suppliers
reduces opacity and competition among suppliers.  In such event, if we are
unable to divert sales to other suppliers, our business, results of operations
and financial condition may be adversely affected.

 

In
addition, recent decreases in rental car fleets have led to increases in retail
rental car rates.   Higher retail rental
car rates negatively impact demand for our retail rental car service, while
decreases in rental car availability negatively impact our Name Your
Own Price® rental car service. In January 2010, Toyota
recalled over 8 million vehicles due to faulty accelerator pedals, leading to
further strain on rental car companies’ fleets and increased retail rental car
rates.  If the industry is faced with a
shortage of vehicles, rental car companies may reduce the number of car
reservations they distribute through our service or increase the negotiated
rates at which they are willing to provide car reservations.  In addition, rental car companies rely on
auto manufacturers to provide new vehicles for their fleet.  Rental car
companies have also historically relied on auto manufacturers and the wholesale
used car market to dispose of their fleets of cars.  The worldwide
recession has led to questions about the long term viability of the major U.S.
auto manufacturers and is partially responsible for a change in the
arrangements between rental car companies and automobile manufacturers.  Where manufacturers have historically
supplied cars to rental car companies under a lease or another arrangement
whereby the manufacturer would buy the car back when it is taken out of the
fleet, manufacturers have begun to require the rental car companies purchase
the cars for their fleets, which shifts the burden of risk of selling the car
to the rental car company.  Tight credit
markets negatively affect the used car market, making it difficult for auto
manufacturers and rental car suppliers to dispose of their fleets.  If the
rental car industry is faced with excess supply, rental car companies may lower
retail rental car rates, which could be beneficial to our retail rental car
business, but detrimental to our Name Your
Own Price® business. 
Because rental car days are typically less expensive than airline tickets
or hotel room night reservations, a reduction in retail rental car rates has a
disproportionately adverse effect on sales of Name
Your Own Price® rental car days since customers
may be less likely to accept the trade-offs associated with that service.  Any disruption in the supply of vehicles or
the ability to dispose of vehicles by car rental companies could impact their
ability to match their fleet supply with demand, which could adversely impact
our business.

 

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange
rates.

 

As a result of the growth
of our international operations, we are conducting a significant portion of our business outside
the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. Dollars.  As a result, we face exposure to adverse
movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated
from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into
U.S. Dollars upon consolidation.  For
example, our international
operations contributed approximately $852.0 million to our revenues for the
year ended December 31, 2009, which compares to $619.8 million for the
same period in 2008, respectively. 
Revenue attributable to our international operations increased, on a
local currency basis, by approximately 46% in the year ended December 31,
2009, compared to the same period in 2008.

 

18












Table of Contents

 

Recently, the U.S. Dollar has strengthened against
the Euro and the British Pound Sterling. In general, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens
against the local currency, the translation of our foreign-currency-denominated
balances will result in decreased net assets, gross bookings, revenues,
operating expenses, and net income.

 

In early 2010, concern over
excessive levels of national debt in Greece and certain other European Union
countries has caused significant devaluation of the Euro relative to other
currencies, such as the U.S. Dollar. 
Investors have expressed concern that failure on the part of Greece and
certain other European Union countries to alleviate their budget deficits could
undermine the Euro and destabilize European debt markets.  Destabilization of the European economy, and
particularly the Euro, could lead to a decrease in consumer confidence, which
could cause reductions in discretionary spending on services such as leisure
travel.  Furthermore, as mentioned above,
if the U.S. Dollar strengthens against the Euro, the translation of our
Euro-denominated balances will result in decreased net assets, gross bookings,
revenues, operating expenses, and net income.

 

Intense competition could reduce our market share
and harm our financial performance.

 

We compete with both online
and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services
we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch
new sites at a relatively low cost. We may not be able to effectively compete with
industry conglomerates such as Expedia, Orbitz Worldwide or Sabre, each of
which has larger gross travel bookings than we do and may have access to
significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do.

 

We currently or potentially
compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With
respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited
to:

 

·                  Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are
owned by Expedia, and Venere, an Italian-based agency hotel reservation service
provider that was acquired by Expedia in the third quarter of 2008; Travelocity
and lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com,
Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are currently owned by
Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui Travel, and Gullivers,
octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, Ctrip, Rakuten
and Wotif;

 

·                  travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car
companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive
business;

 

·                  large online portal and search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including
Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including Bing Travel) and AOL (including AOL Travel);

 

·                  traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators;

 

·                  online travel search sites such as Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, Kayak.com
and SideStep.com (each sometimes referred to as “meta-search” sites) and travel
research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo
and Cheapflights.com; and

 

·                  operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo,
Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre.

 

Certain
of our major competitors have matched our elimination and/or reduction of
processing fees associated with some of our travel services.  In June 2007, we eliminated processing
fees for our price-disclosed airline ticket service, and in April 2008, we
reduced processing fees for our domestic price-disclosed merchant hotel room
service.  As a result, since those dates,
we had a pricing advantage against other major online travel agents with
respect to these travel services. 
Starting in March 2009, Expedia also eliminated air booking
fees.  Later in March 2009,
Travelocity matched the Expedia change and in April 2009, Orbitz
followed.  As a result, we no longer have
the price advantage that we have had against our major competitors on
price-disclosed airline tickets since June 2007.  Similarly, in April 2009, each of
Expedia and Orbitz reduced booking fees on hotel room reservations, and we therefore no longer have a price advantage over
those companies on price-disclosed merchant hotel room reservations.  In addition, in May 2009, Orbitz
announced a price guarantee program under which a customer who books a prepaid
hotel stay will receive money back from Orbitz if another Orbitz customer books
the exact same stay in terms of room type, travel dates and number of
travelers.  In addition, in October 2009,
Travelocity announced the waiver of its cancellation and change fees for hotel
and vacation packages, as well as an expanded hotel guarantee, under which
consumers who book a hotel room and then find a lower published rate for the same
room anytime before the day of check-in are eligible to receive a refund of the
difference.  Our business may be
adversely impacted as a result of no longer having a price advantage over our
direct competitors in the U.S., as seen in the fourth quarter 2009, where
domestic gross bookings growth decelerated from the previous quarter, and we
may be adversely impacted by future promotional initiatives by our competitors.

 

19












Table of Contents

 

In
addition, in March 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed
hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount
because, similar to our Name Your Own Price® hotel booking service, the name of the hotel
is not disclosed until after purchase.  At this point, the number of
hotels available through Travelocity’s opaque hotel service is limited.  However, Travelocity has experience with
offering opaque price-disclosed hotel room reservations in Europe through its
site, lastminute.com, and it is likely that it will use such experience to grow
the number of opaque hotel room reservations it makes available.  If
Travelocity is successful in growing its opaque hotel service, our share of the
discount hotel market in the U.S. could decrease.  In addition, we would
have to compete with Travelocity for access to hotel room supply and there is
no guarantee that we would be able to maintain successfully the access to
opaque hotel supply which we currently have.  If Travelocity’s opaque
hotel service is successful, it may try to offer opaque airline tickets and/or
rental cars, each of which would expose us to similar risks as the opaque hotel
service.

 

Many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers, including
suppliers with which we conduct business, are focusing on driving online demand
to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us.  Certain suppliers have attempted to charge
additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online
channel other than their own website. 
Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively
through their own websites.  Suppliers
who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and,
in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or
loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers
than models like ours.

 

Large,
established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in
developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating — and
intend to further create — inroads into online travel.  For example, Google recently launched Google City Tours, an application that offers multi-day
travel itineraries in destinations around the world, and Microsoft recently
launched Bing Travel, a “meta-search” site, which
searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time
to purchase them.  “Meta-search” sites
leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the
searcher’s specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites
and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers.  These initiatives, among others, illustrate
Google’s and Bing’s clear intention to more directly appeal to travel consumers
by showing consumers more detailed travel results, including specific
information for travelers’ own itineraries, which could lead to suppliers or
others gaining a larger share of Google’s or Bing’s traffic or may ultimately
lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own websites.  If Google, as the single largest search
engine in the world, or Bing or other leading search engines refer significant
traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, it
could result in, among other things, more competition from supplier websites
and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours and
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

 

Many of our current and
potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these
competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can.
In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly
greater resources to:

 

·                  marketing and promotional campaigns;

 

·                  attracting traffic to their websites;

 

·                  attracting and retaining key employees;

 

·                  securing vendors and supply; and

 

·                  website and systems development.

 

20












Table of Contents

 

Increased competition could
result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our
brand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully
against current and future competitors or that competition will not have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

 

Adverse
application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our
business and results of operation.

 

A number of jurisdictions
have initiated lawsuits against on-line travel companies, including us, related
to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e.,
state and local sales tax).  In addition,
a number of municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed
tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy
and other taxes.  Please see Note 17 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and
proceedings.  Additional state and local
jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things,
hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could
seek to collect such taxes, either retroactively or prospectively, or both.

 

In connection with some
hotel occupancy tax audits and assessments, we may be required to pay any
assessed taxes, which amounts may be substantial, prior to being allowed to
contest the assessments and the applicability of the ordinances in judicial
proceedings.  This requirement is
commonly referred to as “pay to play” or “pay first.”  Payment of these amounts, if any, is not an
admission that we believe that we are subject to such taxes and, even if such
payments are made, we intend to continue to assert our position vigorously.

 

Litigation is subject to
uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future
cases and proceedings.  For example, in October 2009,
a jury in a San Antonio class action found that we and the other online travel
companies that are defendants in the lawsuit “control” hotels for purposes of
the local hotel occupancy tax ordinances at issue and are, therefore, subject
to the requirements of those ordinances. 
An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending litigation is likely to
encourage the commencement of additional litigation, audit proceedings or other
regulatory inquiries.  In addition, an
unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result
in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among
other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and
costs.  There have been, and will continue
to be, substantial ongoing costs, which may include “pay to play” payments,
associated with defending our position in pending and any future cases or
proceedings. An adverse
outcome in one or more of these unresolved proceedings could have a material adverse
effect on our business and results of operations and could be material to our
earnings or cash flows in any given operating period.

 

To
the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax
collection responsibility, or we determine that we have one, with respect to
future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligation from our
customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room
reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our hotel service
less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or
hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions;
alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for our services on
“merchant” hotel transactions.  Either
step could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
operations.

 

In
many of the judicial and other proceedings initiated to date, municipalities
seek not only historical taxes that are claimed to be owed on our gross profit,
but also, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or
attorney fees and costs.  The October 2009 jury verdict in the San
Antonio litigation and the related proceedings to determine, among other
things, the amount of penalties, interest and attorney’s fees that could be
owed by us illustrate that any liability associated with hotel occupancy tax
matters is not constrained by our liability for tax owed on our historical
gross profit.

 

21












Table of Contents

 

We will continue to assess
the risks of the potential financial impact of additional tax exposure, and to
the extent appropriate, we will reserve for those estimates of liabilities.

 

Fluctuations in our
financial results make quarterly comparisons and financial forecasting
difficult.

 

Our
revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to
quarter because our business experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect
seasonal trends for the travel services offered by our websites. Traditional
leisure travel bookings in the United States are higher in the second and third
calendar quarters of the year as consumers take spring and summer vacations. In
the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year, demand for travel services
in the United States and Europe generally declines and the number of bookings
flattens.  Furthermore, prior to
introducing a retail travel option to our customers, substantially all of our
business was conducted under the Name Your
Own Price® system and
accordingly, because those services are non-refundable in nature, we recognize
travel revenue at the time a booking was generated.  We recognize revenue generated from our
retail hotel service, however, including our international operations, at the time
that the customer checks out of the hotel. 
As a result, we have seen and expect to continue to see, that a
meaningful amount of retail hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as
customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations, will not be
recognized until future quarters.  This
could result in a disproportionate amount of our annual earnings being
recognized in later quarters.

 

Our results
may also be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the supply made available to
us by airlines, hotels and rental car suppliers. Our revenues and operating
results may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of
these factors. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and
operating results may not be meaningful. For example, we believe
our gross bookings and earnings growth rates reflected favorable year-over-year
comparisons in the second half of 2009 due to weak economic conditions in the
third and fourth quarters of 2008 (i.e., we began to see the effects of the
worldwide recession on our business at the end of the third quarter
2008).  Second, many travel suppliers have discounted or reduced their
fares or rates, which we believe has helped to stimulate demand for leisure
travel.  We believe that these factors, among others, impacted our second half 2009 financial
results and helped our business perform well in the wake of the world wide
recession.  We believe that these positive
influences may not be present in future periods, which will make for progressively
less favorable year-over-year comparisons in 2010, particularly in the second
half of 2010.  A significant change in the global economic environment, such as we are currently
experiencing as a result of the worldwide recession, makes it more difficult to
forecast future operating results.

 

Because of these
fluctuations and uncertainties, our operating results may fail to meet the
expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading
price of our common stock would almost certainly be materially adversely
affected.

 

Our stock price is highly volatile.

 

The market price of our common
stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide
fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are
beyond our control:

 

·                  operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts
and investors;

 

·                  quarterly variations in our operating results;

 

·                  changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including
financial estimates by securities analysts and investors;

 

·                  announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our
competitors;

 

·                  changes in our capital structure;

 

·                  changes in market valuations of other Internet or online service companies;

 

·                  announcements by us or our competitors of price reductions, promotions,
significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or
capital commitments;

 

·                  loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or hotel chain;

 

·                  changes in the status of our intellectual property rights;

 

·                  lack of success in the expansion of our business model geographically;

 

·                  announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against
us or adverse developments in pending proceedings;

 

·                  occurrences of a significant security breach;

 

·                  additions or departures of key personnel; and

 

·                  stock market price and volume fluctuations.

 

22












Table
of Contents

 

Sales of a substantial
number of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of
our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. Given
the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market
price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, fluctuations
in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock
attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds
into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either
direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis.

 

The trading prices of
Internet company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme
price and volume fluctuations. To the extent that the public’s perception of
the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies is negative, our stock price
could decline further, regardless of our results. Other broad market and
industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless
of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political
and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate
fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock.  Negative market conditions could adversely
affect our ability to raise additional capital.

 

We are defendants in
securities class action litigations. In the past, securities class action
litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of
volatility in the market price of its securities. To the extent our stock price
declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional litigation.
This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and divert
management’s attention and resources.

 

Our business could be negatively affected by
changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics or termination of
traffic-generating arrangements.

 

We utilize Internet search
engines and other travel demand aggregation websites, principally through the
purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites.  Our international operations, in particular, rely to a significant
extent upon Google to generate business and, to a much lesser extent, other
search engines and other travel demand aggregation websites.  Search engines such as Google frequently
update and change the logic which determines the placement and display of results
of a user’s search, such that the placement of links to our sites, and
particularly those of our international operations and their affiliates, can be negatively
affected.  In a similar way, a
significant amount of our international business is directed to our own websites through
participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines
whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change commercially,
technically and competitively.  In
addition, we purchase web traffic from a number of sources, including some
operated by our competitors, in the form of pay-per-click arrangements that can
be terminated with little or no notice. 
If one or more of such arrangements is terminated, or if a major search
engine, such as Google, changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively
affects the search engine ranking of our brands or our third-party distribution
partners or changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a
negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition
would be adversely affected.

 

In addition, our international operations rely on various
third party distribution channels (i.e., affiliates) to distribute hotel room
reservations.  Should one or more of such
third parties cease distribution of our international operations’ reservations, or suffer deterioration in
its search engine ranking, due to changes in search engine algorithms or
otherwise, the business of our international operations could be negatively affected.

 

Our processing, storage, use and disclosure
of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches
and could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation,
conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights.

 

The security of data when
engaging in electronic commerce is essential in maintaining consumer and
supplier confidence in the priceline.com services. Substantial or ongoing
security breaches whether instigated internally or externally on our system or
other Internet based systems could significantly harm our business. We
currently require customers who use certain of our services to guarantee their
offers with their credit card, either online or, in some instances, through our
toll-free telephone service. It is possible that advances in computer
circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or other developments, including
our own acts or omissions, could result in a compromise or breach of customer
transaction data.

 

We cannot guarantee that our
existing security measures will prevent security breaches or attacks. A party
(whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is
able to circumvent our security systems could steal customer information or
transaction data, proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in
our operations. For instance, from time to time, we have experienced
“denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have made portions of our
websites slow or unavailable for periods of time.  We may need to expend significant resources
to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches,
and reductions in website availability and response time could cause loss of
substantial business volumes during the occurrence of any such incident.  These issues are likely to become more
difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate and as the tools
and techniques used in such attacks become more advanced.  Security breaches could result in negative
publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and
possible liability and subject

 

23












Table
of Contents

 

us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. Security
breaches could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence
in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our
brand.  Our insurance policies carry low
coverage limits, and would likely not be adequate to reimburse us for losses
caused by security breaches.

 

Companies that we have
acquired, such as our international operations, and that we may acquire in the
future, may employ security and networking standards at levels we find
unsatisfactory.  The process of enhancing
infrastructure to attain improved security and network standards may be time
consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are
difficult to obtain.  Such acquisitions
increase the number of potential vulnerabilities, and can cause delays in
detection of an attack, as well as the timelines of recovery from any given
attack. Failure to raise any such standards that we find unsatisfactory could
expose us to security breaches of, among other things, personal customer data
and credit card information that would have an adverse impact on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.

 

We also face risks
associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business
over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy
on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth
of the Internet and, therefore, the priceline.com service as a means of
conducting commercial transactions. 
Additionally, security breaches at third parties such as supplier or
distributor systems upon which we rely could result in negative publicity,
damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible
liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions.  Some of our business is conducted with third
party marketing affiliates, which may generate travel reservations through our
infrastructure or through other systems. 
A security breach at such a third party could be perceived by consumers
as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity,
damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible
liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions.  In addition, such third parties may not
comply with applicable disclosure requirements, which could expose us to
liability.

 

In our processing of travel
transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable
data.  This data is increasingly subject
to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world,
including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection
Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European
Union.  This government action is
typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected,
processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.  We could be adversely affected if legislation
or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if
governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations
in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

 

In addition, in the
aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United
States, government agencies have been contemplating or developing initiatives
to enhance national and aviation security, such as the Transportation Security
Administration’s Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System, known as
CAPPS II.  These initiatives may result
in conflicting legal requirements with respect to data handling.  As privacy and data protection has become a
more sensitive issue, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result
of differing views on the privacy of travel data.  Travel businesses have also been subjected to
investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper
disclosure of passenger information.  These
and other privacy developments that are difficult to anticipate could adversely
impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

We rely on the performance of
highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key
personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be
harmed.

 

Our performance is largely dependent on the
talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends
on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain
highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization.  In particular, the contributions of certain
key senior

 

24












Table of Contents

 

management in the U.S., Europe and Asia are critical to the overall
management of the Company.  In addition,
because our European senior management’s noncontrolling ownership interest was
repurchased in September 2008, it may become more difficult to retain
these senior managers.  We cannot ensure
that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior
management or other key employees, the loss of whom could harm our business.

 

In addition, competition for well-qualified
employees in all aspects of our business, including software engineers and
other technology professionals, is intense both in the U.S. and abroad.  With the recent success of our international
business and the increased profile of the Booking.com business and brand,
competitors have increased their efforts to hire our international
employees.  Our continued ability to
compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to
retain and motivate existing employees. 
If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining
and motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. We
do not maintain any key person life insurance policies.

 

Our expansion places a significant strain on our management, technical,
operational and financial resources.

 

We have rapidly and significantly expanded our
international operations and anticipate expanding further to pursue growth of
our service offerings and customer base. For example, the number of our
employees worldwide has grown from less than 700 in the first quarter of 2007,
to approximately 2,010 as of January 31, 2010, which growth is almost entirely comprised of
hires by our international operations. 
Such expansion increases the complexity of our business and places a
significant strain on our management, operations, technical performance,
financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions.

 

There can be no assurance that we will be able to
manage our expansion effectively.  Our
current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be
adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations, especially as
we employ personnel in multiple geographic locations.  We may not be able to hire, train, retain,
motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth, damage our
reputation, negatively affect our financial performance, and harm our business.

 

Capacity constraints and system failures could harm
our business.

 

We rely on certain third
party computer systems and third party service providers, including the
computerized central reservation systems of the airline, hotel and rental car
industries to satisfy demand for airline tickets and domestic hotel room and
rental car reservations. In particular, our domestic travel business is
substantially dependent upon the computerized reservation systems of operators
of global distribution systems for the travel industry. Any interruption in
these third party services systems or deterioration in their performance could
prevent us from booking airline, hotel and rental car reservations and have a
material adverse effect on our business. Our agreements with some third party
service providers are terminable upon short notice and often do not provide
recourse for service interruptions. In the event our arrangement with any of
such third parties is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative
source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms
and, as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.

 

We depend upon Paymentech
to process our U.S. credit card transactions, and e-clearing, WorldPay and
others to process Agoda credit card transactions. If any of these providers
were wholly or partially compromised, our cash flows could be disrupted until
such a time as a replacement process could be put in place with a different vendor.  As we add complexity to our systems
infrastructure by adding new suppliers and distribution, our total system
availability could decline and our results could suffer.

 

25











Table of Contents

 

A substantial amount of our
computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at the
facilities of SAVVIS in New Jersey, AT&T in New York City, Equinix Europe
Ltd. in London, England, Global Switch Amsterdam B.V., TelecityRedbus in the
Netherlands and certain other data centers. These systems and operations are
vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, floods, fires, power
loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They are also subject to
break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct.
Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of any disruption of
service due to any such misconduct, natural disaster or other unanticipated
problems at the SAVVIS facility, the AT&T facility, the Equinix Europe Ltd.
facility, the TelecityRedbus and Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. facility, or
other facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. In
addition, the failure by SAVVIS, Verizon, AT&T, Equinix Europe Ltd., Colt
Telecom Group Limited, Verizon Business B.V., TrueServer B.V. or other
communication providers to provide our required data communications capacity
could result in interruptions in our service. Any system failure that causes an
interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could
impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

We
do not have a completely formalized disaster recovery plan in every geographic
region in which we conduct business.  In the event of certain system
failures, we may not be able to switch to back-up systems immediately and the
time to full recovery could be prolonged. 
Like many online businesses, we have
experienced system failures from time to time. In addition to placing increased
burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a significant amount of
user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support
personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in our service could result in an
immediate loss of revenues that can be substantial and may cause some users to
switch to our competitors. If we experience frequent or persistent system
failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We have been
taking steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems. These
steps are expensive, may reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing
the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime.

 

We use both internally
developed systems and third-party systems to operate our services, including
transaction processing, order management and financial systems. If the number
of users of our services increases substantially, or if critical third-party
systems stop operating as designed, we will need to significantly expand and
upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, financial and
accounting systems and other infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be
able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions
in a timely manner, and, depending on the third-party systems affected, our
transactional, financial and accounting systems could be impacted for a meaningful
amount of time before repair.

 

If our systems cannot be
expanded to cope with increased demand or fails to perform, we could
experience:

 

·                  unanticipated disruptions in service;

 

·                  slower response times;

 

·                  decreased customer service and customer satisfaction; or

 

·                  delays in the introduction of new services,

 

any of which could impair our reputation, damage our
brands and materially and adversely affect our revenues.  While we do maintain redundant systems and
hosting services for some of our business, it is possible that we could
experience an interruption in our business, and we do not carry business
interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur.

 

Companies that we have
acquired, such as our international operations, and that we may acquire in the
future, may present known or unknown capacity/stability or other types of
system challenges.  The process of enhancing
infrastructure to attain improved capacity/scalability and other system

 

26












Table
of Contents

 

characteristics may be time consuming and expensive
and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain.  Such acquisitions increase potential
downtime, customer facing problems and compliance problems.  Failure to successfully make any such
improvements to such infrastructures could expose us to potential capacity,
stability, and system problems that would have an adverse impact on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Our financial results will
be materially impacted by payment of cash income taxes in the future.

 

Due to our significant net
operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to make payments of U.S. federal
tax for the foreseeable future, except for U.S. alternative minimum tax.  However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on
our foreign income.  We expect that our
international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the
U.S. over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax
payments will increase as our international business generates an increasing
share of our pretax income.

 

Acquisitions could result in
operating difficulties.

 

As part of our business strategy, in September 2004,
we acquired Booking.com Limited, in July 2005, Booking.com B.V. and, in November 2007,
Agoda.  We may enter into additional
business combinations and acquisitions in the future.  Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances
of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and
amortization of expenses related to intangible assets acquired.  In addition, the process of integrating an
acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating
difficulties and expenditures.  The
acquisitions of Booking.com
B.V., Booking.com Limited, and Agoda were
accompanied by a number of risks, including, without limitation:

 

·                  the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies
appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the
acquisitions may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies;

 

·                  the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of Booking.com
Limited, which are principally located in
Cambridge, England, Booking.com B.V., which are principally located in
Amsterdam, The Netherlands, and Agoda, which are principally located in
Singapore and Bangkok, Thailand, with and into our operations, which are
headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut;

 

·                  the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of
management;

 

·                  the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our
services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration;

 

·                  the failure to further successfully develop acquired technology resulting
in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets;

 

·                  the impairment of relationships with customers of Booking.com
B.V., Booking.com Limited and Agoda or our own
customers as a result of any integration of operations;

 

·                  the impairment of relationships with employees of Booking.com B.V.,
Booking.com Limited and Agoda or our own business as a result of any
integration of new management personnel;

 

·                  the potential unknown liabilities associated with Booking.com B.V.,
Booking.com Limited and Agoda.

 

We may experience similar
risks in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not be successful in
addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the
acquisitions of Booking.com
B.V., Booking.com Limited or Agoda, or that we
could encounter in future acquisitions, which would harm our business or cause
us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions.  As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $482.3 million assigned to the
intangible assets and goodwill of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited
and Agoda, and therefore, the occurrence of any
of the risks identified above could result in a material adverse impact,
including an impairment of these

 

27












Table
of Contents

 

assets, which could cause us to have to record a
charge for impairment.  Any such charge
could adversely impact our operating results, which would likely cause our
stock price to decline significantly.

 

We may not be able to keep
up with rapid technological and other changes.

 

The markets in which we
compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry
standards, consolidation, frequent new service announcements, introductions and
enhancements and changing consumer demands. We may not be able to keep up with
these rapid changes. In addition, these market characteristics are heightened
by the emerging nature of the Internet and the apparent need of companies from
many industries to offer Internet based services. As a result, our future
success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies,
to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to continually improve
the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to
competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In
addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or
telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us
to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or
infrastructure.

 

We rely on the value of the
priceline.com and Booking.com brands, along with others, and the costs of
maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing.

 

We believe that maintaining
and expanding the priceline.com and Booking.com and Agoda brands, and other
owned brands, including Active Hotels, Lowestfare.com, Rentalcars.com, Breezenet.com,
MyTravelGuide.com and Travelweb, are important aspects of our efforts to
attract and expand our user and advertiser base.  As our larger competitors spend increasingly
more on advertising, we are required to spend more in order to maintain our
brand recognition.  In addition, we have
spent considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and
maintenance of the priceline.com and Booking.com and Agoda brands, and we will
continue to spend money on, and devote resources to advertising, marketing and
other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our
brands. We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer
awareness of these brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding
efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain
or enhance customer awareness of our brands in a cost-effective manner, our
business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely
affected.

 

We are exposed to various counterparty risks.

 

We
are party to derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuation, as well as potential dilution upon conversion of our
convertible senior notes.  As of December 31,
2009, we are party to foreign currency contracts with a notional value of 183.4
million Euros.  The counterparties to
these contracts are Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase and RBS Citizens Financial
Group.  On the maturity date of these
contracts, the counterparties are potentially obligated to pay us the net
settlement value.

 

The
counterparties to our Conversion Spread Hedges are Goldman Sachs and Merrill
Lynch.  Under the Conversion Spread
Hedges, we are entitled to purchase from the counterparties approximately 8.5
million shares of our common stock (the number of shares underlying the 2011
Notes and the 2013 Notes) at a strike price of $40.38 per share (subject to
adjustment in certain circumstances) and the counterparties are entitled to
purchase from us approximately 8.5 million shares of our common stock at a
strike price of $50.47 per share (subject to adjustment in certain
circumstances).  The Conversion Spread Hedges increase the effective
conversion price of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes to $50.47 per share from
our perspective and are designed to reduce the potential dilution upon
conversion of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes. If the market value per share
of our common stock at maturity is above $40.38, the Conversion Spread Hedge
will entitle us to receive from the counterparties net shares of our common
stock based on the excess of the then current market price of our common stock
over the strike price of the hedge (up to $50.47).  If any of the counterparties to these
derivative instruments were to liquidate, declare bankruptcy or otherwise cease
operations, it may not satisfy its obligations under these derivative

 

28












Table of Contents

 

instruments.  In such event, our fully diluted share count
would be increased, which would negatively impact our fully diluted earnings
per share.

 

We will be subject to increased income taxes in the event that our
foreign cash balances are remitted to the United States.

 

As
of December 31, 2009, we held approximately $534.6 million of cash and
short-term liquid investments outside of the United States.  To date, we have used our foreign cash to
reinvest in our foreign operations.  It
is our current expectation to make further investments in our foreign
operations with our foreign cash.  If our
foreign cash balances continue to grow and our ability to reinvest those
balances diminishes, it will become increasingly likely that we will repatriate
some of our foreign cash balances to the United States.  In such event, we would likely be subject to
additional income tax expenses in the United States with respect to our
unremitted foreign earnings.  We would
not incur an increase in tax payments unless we repatriate the cash and no
longer have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset the taxable
income.

 

In addition, on February 1,
2010, U.S. President Barack Obama proposed significant changes to the U.S.
international tax laws that would limit U.S. deductions for interest expense
related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the U.S. foreign tax
credit rules, among other tax change proposals. 
We cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or
what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being
enacted into law.  If the U.S. tax laws
change in a manner that increases our tax obligation, our results could suffer.

 

We face risks related to our
intellectual property.

 

We regard our intellectual
property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and
patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our
proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual
property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

 

While we believe that our
issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business,
there can be no assurance that:

 

·                  a third party will not have
or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us from practicing features of
our business or that will require us to pay for a license to use those
features;

 

·                  our operations do not or
will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties;

 

·                  any patent can be
successfully defended against challenges by third parties;

 

·                  the pending patent
applications will result in the issuance of patents;

 

·                  competitors or potential
competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not
covered by our patents or patent applications;

 

·                  because of variations in the
application of our business model to each of our services, our patents will be
effective in preventing one or more third parties from utilizing a copycat
business model to offer the same service in one or more categories;

 

·                  new prior art will not be
discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate an issued patent; or

 

29












Table of Contents

 

·                  legislative or judicial
action will not directly or indirectly affect the scope and validity of any of
our patent rights.

 

There has been recent
discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called
“business method” patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark
Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable
to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a
direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if
any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications.  In addition, there has been recent discussion in various
federal court proceedings regarding the patentability and validity of so called
“business method” patents. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, in a
recent order in In re Bilski, has questioned whether it
should review its earlier decision affirming the patentability of so-called business
method patents in State Street Bank v. Signature Financial.  
We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision will
have on our issued patents or pending patent applications.

 

We pursue the registration
of our trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However,
effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may
not be available in every country in which our services are made available
online. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future,
certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material,
to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the
value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation.

 

From time to time, in the
ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to, and are currently
subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property
rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert
intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims, against us,
particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business.  We endeavor to defend our intellectual
property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely
expensive and time consuming, and has and is likely to continue to divert
managerial attention and resources from our business objectives.  Successful infringement claims against us
could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our
business, or portions of our business. 
In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to
use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be
expensive to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether.  Any of these events could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

 

Our business is
exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and chargebacks.

 

Our results have been
negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards. Because we
act as the merchant-of-record in a majority of our domestic transactions as
well as those of Agoda, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit
cards on our websites as well as other payment disputes with our customers.
Additionally, we are held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards in
certain retail transactions when we do not act as merchant of record.  Accordingly, we calculate and record an
allowance for the resulting credit card chargebacks.  If we are unable to combat the use of
fraudulent credit cards on our websites, our business, results of operations
and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

 

In addition, in the event
that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares
bankruptcy, we could experience an increase in credit card chargebacks from
customers with travel reservations with such supplier.  For example, airlines that participate in our
system and declare bankruptcy or cease operations may be unable or unwilling to
honor tickets sold for their flights. 
Our policy in such event is to direct customers seeking a refund or
exchange to the airline, and not to provide a remedy ourselves. Because we are
the merchant-of-record on sales of Name Your
Own Price® airline tickets to
our customers, however, we could experience a significant increase in demands
for refunds or credit card chargebacks from customers, which could materially
adversely affect our operations and financial results.  For example, in April 2008, Aloha
Airlines and ATA Airlines each ceased operations and we experienced an increase
in credit card chargebacks from customers with tickets on those airlines.

 

30












Table of Contents

 

The unit profitability of certain of our
businesses has declined and could continue to decline, as we may be subject to,
among other things, competitive pressure and loss or reduction of global
distribution system fees.

 

In recent years, the amount of profit we make per airline ticket sold
has declined and could continue to decline as we, among other things,
experience pressure from suppliers to reduce our profit, strive to remain
competitive with other online travel agencies and continue to be subject to
reduction of global distribution system, or GDS, fees paid to us.  Historically, we have relied on fees paid to
us by GDSs for travel bookings made through
GDSs for a portion of our gross profit and a substantial portion of our
operating income. We rebate certain GDS costs to certain suppliers (e.g.,
airlines, hotels, etc.) in exchange for contractual considerations such as
those relating to pricing and availability, and expect to continue to do so in
the future.  Suppliers put pressure on us
to reduce our aggregate compensation and book through lower cost channels to
receive full content and avoid penalties. 
We have agreements with a number of suppliers to obtain access to
content, and are in continuing discussions with others to obtain similar
access.  If we were denied access to full
content or had to impose service fees on our services, it could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Additionally, some travel
suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to
develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct
connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution methods.  Development of the technology to connect to
such alternatives, or to enable direct connections to travel suppliers,
requires the use of information technology resources and could cause us to
incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of system
problems and delay other projects.

 

31












Table of Contents

 

We are party to legal
proceedings which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us.

 

We are a party to the legal
proceedings described in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The defense of the actions described in Note
17 may increase our expenses and an adverse outcome in any of such actions
could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

 

Regulatory and legal
uncertainties could harm our business.

 

The
services we offer through the priceline.com service are regulated by federal
and state governments. Our ability to provide such services is and will
continue to be affected by such regulations. The implementation of unfavorable
regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or
regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause
the development of the affected markets to become impractical and otherwise
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

 

Item 1B