. Risk Factors – Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.”Our BrandsWe own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including Agusha, Amp Energy, Aquafina, Aquafina Flavorsplash, Aunt Jemima, Cap’n Crunch, Cheetos, Chester’s, Chipsy, Chudo, Cracker Jack, Diet Mountain Dew, Diet Mug, Diet Pepsi, Diet Sierra Mist, Domik v Derevne, Doritos, Duyvis, Elma Chips, Emperador, Frito-Lay, Fritos, Fruktovy Sad, Frustyle, Gatorade, G2, G Series, Grandma’s, Imunele, Izze, Kurkure, Lay’s, Life, Lubimy Sad, Manzanita Sol, Marias Gamesa, Matutano, Mirinda, Miss Vickie’s, Mother’s, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew Code Red, Mountain Dew Kickstart, Mug, Munchies, Naked, Near East, O.N.E., Paso de los Toros, Pasta Roni, Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi Next, Propel, Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Rice-A-Roni, Rold Gold, Rosquinhas Mabel, Ruffles, Sabritas, Sakata, Saladitas, Sandora, Santitas, 7UP (outside the United States) and 7UP Free (outside the United States), Sierra Mist, Simba, Smartfood, Smith’s, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SoBe Lifewater, SoBe V Water, Sonric’s, Stacy’s, Sting, SunChips, Tonus, Tostitos, Trop 50, Tropicana, Tropicana Farmstand, Tropicana Pure Premium, Tropicana Twister, Vesely Molochnik, Walkers and Ya. We also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products in certain markets, including Dole and Ocean Spray.  We also distribute Rockstar Energy drinks, Muscle Milk protein shakes and certain DPSG brands, including Dr Pepper, Crush and Schweppes, in certain markets. Joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as Lipton, Müller, Sabra and Starbucks. Trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as 5Table of Contentssnack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. In addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness. We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. Some of these patents are licensed to others.SeasonalityOur businesses are affected by seasonal variations. For instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food and dairy sales are higher in the cooler months. Weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our consolidated financial results.Our CustomersOur primary customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores and authorized independent bottlers. We normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. We also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas.In 2013, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart), including Sam’s Club (Sam’s), represented approximately 11% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 30% of our 2013 North American (United States and Canada) net revenue, with Wal-Mart (including Sam’s) representing approximately 17%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers.See “Our Customers” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our independent bottlers.Our CompetitionOur businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our beverage, snack and food brands compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. In many countries in which we do business, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary beverage competitor. Other food and beverage competitors include, but are not limited to, ConAgra Foods, Inc., DPSG, Kellogg Company, Kraft Foods Group, Inc., Mondelēz International, Inc., Monster Beverage Corporation, Nestlé S.A., Red Bull GmbH and Snyder’s-Lance, Inc. In many markets, we also compete against numerous regional and local companies.Many of our snack and food brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack and food industry worldwide. However, The Coca-Cola Company has significant carbonated soft drink (CSD) share advantage in many markets outside the United States.Our beverage, snack and food brands compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques, new vending and dispensing equipment 6Table of Contentsand brand and trademark development and protection. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively.      (1)The categories and category share information in the charts above are through December 2013 based on data provided and verified by Information Resources, Inc. (IRI). The above charts include data from most major retail chains (including Wal-Mart) but exclude data from certain retailers that do not report to this service. (2)Does not sum due to rounding.Research and DevelopmentWe engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth in these activities and to drive innovation globally. These activities principally involve production, processing and packaging and include: development of new ingredients and products; reformulation of existing products; improvement in the quality of existing products; improvement and modernization of manufacturing processes; improvements in product quality, safety and integrity; improvements in packaging technology; improvements in dispensing equipment; development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of current and proposed product lines; efforts focused on identifying opportunities to transform and grow our product portfolio, including the development of sweetener and flavor innovation and recipes that reduce sodium levels in certain of our products. Our research centers are located around the world, including in China, Germany, India, Mexico, Russia, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States, and leverage nutrition science, food science and consumer insights to meet our strategy to develop healthful, convenient foods and beverages. In 2013, we continued to expand our portfolio of nutritious foods and beverages that include fruits, vegetables, whole grains, low-fat dairy, nuts, seeds and key nutrients, as well as offerings that provide a functional benefit, such as addressing the performance needs of athletes. We continue to refine our food and beverage portfolio to meet changing consumer needs by developing a broader portfolio of product choices. We also made investments to minimize our impact on the environment, including innovation in our packaging to make it increasingly sustainable, and developed and implemented new technologies to enhance the quality and value of our current and future products, as well as made investments to incorporate into our operations best practices and technology to support sustainable agriculture and to reduce our impact on the environment. We continue to make investments to conserve energy and raw materials, reduce waste in our facilities, recycle containers, use renewable resources and optimize package design to use less materials. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. Research and development costs were $665 million in 2013, $552 million in 2012 and $525 million in 2011 and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses. 7Table of ContentsRegulatory Environment and Environmental ComplianceThe conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, advertising, marketing, labeling, safety and health practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the United States in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold. It is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses.We are required to comply with a variety of U.S. laws and regulations, including but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and various state laws governing food safety; the Food Safety Modernization Act; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act; the Lanham Act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and the National Labor Relations Act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; and laws regulating sale of certain of our products in schools. In our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act. We are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws such as Proposition 65 in California which requires that, unless a safe harbor level exists and has been met, a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects.  See also “. Risk Factors – Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.” and “. Risk Factors – 8Table of ContentsChanges in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.” and  “. Risk Factors – Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”The Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRA) requires disclosure of certain activities relating to Iran by PepsiCo or its affiliates that occurred during our 2013 fiscal year.  As previously disclosed, one of our foreign subsidiaries historically maintained a small office in Iran, which provided sales support to independent bottlers in Iran in connection with in-country sales of foreign-owned beverage brands, and which was not in contravention of any applicable U.S. sanctions laws. In 2012, our foreign subsidiary took steps to close its office in Iran, including terminating all three of its employees, and the office has ceased all commercial activity since the enactment of ITRA.  During 2013, our foreign subsidiary continued the process of winding down its office in Iran pursuant to a general license from the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) until the expiration of such license in March 2013. The subsidiary did not engage in any activities in Iran other than wind-down activities in 2013, or have any revenues or profits attributable to activities in Iran during 2013. The office of the subsidiary continues to have one local bank account, containing aggregate deposits of approximately $180, with a bank identified on the list of “Specially Designated Nationals” maintained by OFAC. The subsidiary has applied for a license from OFAC to authorize continuation and completion of wind-down, including closing the bank account, and plans to resume and complete such wind-down activities upon receipt thereof. EmployeesAs of December 28, 2013, we employed approximately 274,000 people worldwide, including approximately 106,000 people within the United States. Our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. We or our subsidiaries are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. We expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. We believe that relations with our employees are generally good. 9Table of ContentsAvailable InformationWe are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are also available free of charge on our Internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC.. Risk Factors, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance.Item 1B