ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

     The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

     Our disclosure and
analysis in this 2006 Form 10-K and in our 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders
contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based
on  management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide
forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well
as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations
or forecasts  of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or
current facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements
by using words such as“anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,”
“intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “target”, “forecast” and
similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or
financial performance or business plans or  prospects. In particular, these include
statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective
products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated
products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the
outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results.

     We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to
risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those
anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements.

     We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our  10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually
or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand
that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.

Government Regulation and Managed Care Trends

     U.S. and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by
changes in such regulations. In the U.S., many of our pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. Such pressures may increase as the result of the 2003 Medicare Act due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector
plans that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, if the 2003 Medicare Act were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. In
addition, MCOs, as well as Medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. Some states have implemented and other states are considering price controls or patient-access constraints under the Medicaid program and some
states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid eligible. Other matters also could be the subject of U.S. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could
adversely affect our business, including the importation of prescription drugs that are marketed from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries.

     The prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of ED medications by the Medicaid program, which became effective January 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for
the

14









Medicare program, which became effective January 1, 2007, may adversely affect our business. Any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse
effect.

     We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In Europe and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to
consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. This international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in
our products from markets with lower prices. Such trade exploiting price differences between countries can undermine our sales in markets with higher prices. As a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results
will continue.

Generic Competition

     Competition from manufacturers
of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. Upon the expiration
or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the
“at-risk” launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against
the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of
our products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very
short  period, which can adversely affect our business. The U.S. basic patent
for Zoloft expired
in 2006 and will expire in 2007 for each of Norvasc and Zyrtec.
Generic versions of Zoloft were
 launched in 2006 and we expect generic versions of Norvasc and Zyrtec to
 be launched in 2007. The U.S.  basic patents on Camptosar and Inspra expire
 in 2008. Also, the patents covering several of our most  important medicines,
 including Lipitor, Norvasc, Celebrex, Detrol and Caduet, are
 being challenged by  generic manufacturers. In addition, our patent-protected
 products can face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products
 of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. For example, Lipitor began
 to face competition from generic pravastatin (Pravachol) and generic simvastatin
 (Zocor) during 2006.

     In 2006, the FDA approved a new branded somatropin product that will compete with
Genotropin.

Competitive Products

     We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. Products that compete with our drugs, including some of
our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. Launches of a number of competitive products have occurred recently, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for
approval with the FDA and with regulatory authorities in other countries.

Dependence on Key In-Line and New Products

     We recorded product sales of more than $1 billion for each of nine pharmaceutical products in 2006: Lipitor, Norvasc, Zoloft, Lyrica, Celebrex, Viagra,
Detrol/Detrol LA, Xalatan/Xalacom and Zyrtec. Those products accounted for 64% of our Pharmaceutical revenues in 2006. Lipitor sales in 2006 were
approximately $12.9 billion, accounting for 28.6% of our total 2006 Pharmaceutical revenues. If these or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates,
material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence or pressure from existing competitive products, or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the
adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. As noted, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines recently have expired or will expire this year or next year, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the
subject of pending legal challenges. In addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products, including Lyrica, Exubera, Sutent, Chantix/
Champix and Eraxis.

15









Uncertainty Relating to COX-2 Medicines

     Our ability to increase Celebrex sales may be limited by the continuing concern about the safety of non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory pain relievers.

Research and Development Investment

     The discovery and development of new products as well as the development of additional uses for existing products is very important to the success of the Company. However, balancing current
growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. Our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. This could
produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues.

Development, Regulatory Approval and Marketing of Products

     Risks and uncertainties particularly apply with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and
developing new products is inherently uncertain. There can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. Decisions by regulatory authorities
regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. There also are many considerations that can affect marketing of pharmaceutical products around the world. Regulatory delays, the
inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of
research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements.

Research Studies

     Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy once the drug receives approval. More
detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. We try to plan clinical trials prudently, but
there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. The quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results.

Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk

     46.6% of our total 2006 revenues were derived from international operations, including 29.3% from the Europe/Canada region and 12.3% from the Japan/Asia region. These international-based
revenues as well as our substantial international assets expose our revenues and earnings to foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest
rates. These risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the section entitled Financial Risk Management in our 2006 Financial Report. For additional details, see Note 9-D to our consolidated financial
statements,
Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities — Foreign Exchange Risk, in our 2006 Financial Report. Those sections of our 2006 Financial Report
are incorporated by reference.

     Notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other
related factors affecting our businesses.

Risks Affecting International Operations

     Our international operations also could be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval,
production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products, as well as by unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. Any of these changes could adversely affect our business.

16









Product Manufacturing and Marketing Risks

     Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand, or the failure to predict
market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products, could affect future results.

Cost and Expense Control/Unusual Events

     Growth in costs and expenses,
changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions,
divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that
could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization
and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. Such
risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected
benefits of our Adapting to Scale multi-year productivity initiative, including
the projected benefits of the broadening of this initiative over the next few
years.

Changes in Laws and Accounting Standards

     Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and
revised tax law interpretations), competition laws and environmental laws in the U.S. and other countries.

Terrorist Activity

     Our future results could
be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions,
including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist
activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action
overseas.

Legal Proceedings

     We and certain of our
subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial,
securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims, government  investigations,
and other legal proceedings that arise from time to
time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable,
and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses
in  these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements
of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations
in any particular period.

     Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with
respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of
that drug and could materially affect future results of operations.

Business Development Activities

     We plan to enhance our
pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances (see
Regulatory Environment and Pipeline Productivity under Overview
of our Performance and Operating Environment in
our 2006 Financial Report, which section is incorporated by reference). However,
these enhancement plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities
and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking  similar
opportunities.

ITEM 1B