ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


Progressive’s business involves various risks and uncertainties, certain of which are discussed in
this section. Management divides these risks into three broad categories in assessing how they may
affect the ability to achieve our business objectives:







     
    •
     
    Operating Risks are those stemming from external or internal events or circumstances
that directly or indirectly may affect our insurance operations.



     

     
    •
     
    Investing Risks are uncertainties relating to the performance and preservation of our
investment portfolios. Unlike most other risks, the actual development of an investment
risk factor (such as whether interest rates go down or up) may result in either an increase
or decrease in the value of investments we hold.



     

     
    •
     
    Financing Risks generally relate to our ability to obtain capital, when necessary, to
pay or otherwise perform our obligations, including obligations under any debt instruments
issued, and to earn the cost of equity capital.




Although we have organized risks generally according to these categories in the discussion below,
it should be noted that many of the risks have ramifications in more than one category. For
example, although presented as an Operating Risk below, state regulation of insurance companies may
also affect our investing and financing activities. Similarly, while setting insurance rates,
setting loss reserves and adjusting claims are properly discussed as Operating Risks, errors in
these disciplines may have an impact on the investing and financing areas as well. The categories,
therefore, should be viewed as a starting point for understanding the significant risks facing us
and not as a limitation on the potential impact of the matters being discussed.


This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in
this report and in the other reports and materials filed by us with the SEC, as well as news
releases and other information publicly disseminated by us from time to time.


The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional
risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may
also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties develop into
actual events, this could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations. In that case, the market price of our Common Shares could decline
materially.


I. Operating Risks


We compete in the automobile insurance and other property-casualty markets, which are highly
competitive.


We face vigorous competition from large, well-capitalized national companies and smaller regional
insurers. Other large national and international insurance or financial services companies may
also enter these markets in the future. Many of these companies may have greater financial,
marketing and management resources than we have. In addition, competitors may offer consumers
combinations of auto policies and other insurance products or financial services which we do not
offer. We could be adversely affected by a loss of business to competitors offering similar
insurance products at lower prices or offering bundled products or services and by other competitor
initiatives.


From time to time, we undertake strategic initiatives to maintain and improve our competitive
position in auto insurance markets. Based on a culture that encourages innovation, these
strategies at times involve significant departures from our and/or our competitors’ then-current or
historical modes of doing business. As such, our innovations may entail a degree of risk and may
not ultimately achieve anticipated business goals. In addition, these initiatives may be subject
to challenge by regulators or private litigants and may disrupt our relationships with certain of
our customers and producers (i.e., agents and brokers). If we are unable successfully to develop,

- 11 -




Table of Contents





plan and implement our strategic initiatives in these competitive, regulatory and legal
environments, our business could be materially adversely affected.


Similarly, we undertake distinctive advertising campaigns and other efforts to improve brand
recognition and generate growth. If these campaigns or efforts are unsuccessful or are less
effective than those of competitors, our business could be materially adversely affected.


The highly competitive nature of the markets in which we compete could also result in the failure
of one or more major competitors. In the event of a failure of a major insurer, we could be
adversely affected, as our company and other insurance companies may be required under
state-mandated plans to absorb the losses of the failed insurer, and we could be faced with an
unexpected surge in new business from the failed insurer’s former policyholders.


Our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, managers and executives, and to
maintain appropriate staffing levels, is critical to our success.


Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, including
executives and other key managers. Our loss of certain key officers and employees or the failure
to attract and develop talented new executives and managers could have a materially adverse effect
on our business.


In addition, we must forecast the changing business environments (for multiple business units and
in many geographic markets) with reasonable accuracy and adjust our hiring programs and/or
employment levels accordingly. Our failure to recognize the need for such adjustments, or our
failure or inability to react appropriately on a timely basis, could lead either to over-staffing
(which would adversely affect our cost structure) or under-staffing (impairing our ability to
service our ongoing and new business) in one or more business units or locations. In either such
event, our financial results could be materially adversely affected.


We further believe that our success depends, in large part, on our ability to maintain and improve
the staffing models and employee culture that it has developed over the years. Our ability to do
so may be impaired as a result of litigation against us, legislation or regulations at the state or
federal level or other factors in the employment marketplace. In such events, the productivity of
certain of our workers could be adversely affected, which could lead to an erosion of our operating
performance and margins.


Progressive and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex federal and state
laws and regulations.


Progressive’s insurance businesses operate in a highly regulated environment. Our insurance
subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by state insurance departments in all 50
states and the District of Columbia, each of which has a unique and complex set of laws and
regulations. In addition, certain federal laws impose additional requirements on businesses,
including insurers. Our subsidiaries’ ability to comply with these laws and regulations at
reasonable costs, and to obtain necessary regulatory action in a timely manner, is and will
continue to be critical to our success.


Certain states impose restrictions on or require prior regulatory approval of various actions by
regulated insurers, which may adversely affect our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to operate,
innovate and obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner. Our compliance efforts are
further complicated by changes in laws or regulations applicable to insurance companies (such as,
in recent years, legislative and regulatory initiatives concerning the use of nonpublic consumer
information and related privacy issues, the use of credit scoring in underwriting and efforts to
freeze, set or roll back insurance premium rates). Insurance laws and regulations may limit the
insurance subsidiaries’ ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, prevent the subsidiaries
from obtaining timely rate increases necessary to cover increased costs, restrict the subsidiaries’
ability to discontinue unprofitable businesses or exit unprofitable markets or prevent insurers
from terminating policies under certain circumstances. In addition, compliance with
insurance-related laws and regulations often results in increased administrative costs to our
insurance subsidiaries. These costs, in turn, may adversely affect our profitability or our
ability or desire to grow our business in the applicable jurisdictions.



- 12 -




Table of Contents





The failure to comply with these laws and regulations also could result in actions by regulators or
other law enforcement officials, potentially leading to fines and penalties, adverse publicity and
damage to our reputation in the marketplace, and in extreme cases, revocation of a subsidiary’s
authority to do business in one or more jurisdictions. In addition, Progressive and its
subsidiaries can face individual and class action lawsuits by its insureds and other parties for
alleged violations of certain of these laws or regulations.


During 2005, we received document and information requests from several state attorneys general and
insurance regulators regarding ongoing investigations into the relationships between insurers and
brokers and agents, allegations of bid-rigging by certain brokers and other related matters. For a
discussion of our responses to these requests, see the “Financial Condition – Commitments and
Contingencies” Section in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations in the Annual Report, which is attached as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.


New legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future which could adversely affect our
operations or ability to write business profitably in one or more states. In addition, from time
to time, the United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition
of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary. We are unable to
predict whether any such laws will be enacted and how and to what extent such laws and regulations
would affect our businesses.


State insurance regulation may create risks and uncertainties for the Progressive’s insurance
subsidiaries in other ways as well. For further information on these risks and uncertainties, see
the “Insurance Regulation” discussion beginning on page 5 of this report.


Lawsuits challenging our business practices, our competitors and other companies are pending and
more may be filed in the future.


The Progressive Corporation and/or its subsidiaries are named as defendants in a number of putative
class action and other lawsuits challenging various aspects of the subsidiaries’ business
operations. These lawsuits include cases alleging damages as a result of the use of after-market
parts; total loss evaluation methodology; the use of credit in underwriting and related
requirements under the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act; methods used for evaluating and paying
certain bodily injury, personal injury protection and medical payment claims; and policy
implementation and renewal procedures, among other matters. From time to time, we also may be
involved in litigation or other disputes alleging that our business practices or systems violate
the patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Additional
litigation may be filed against Progressive and/or its subsidiaries or disputes may arise in the
future concerning these or other business practices. In addition, lawsuits have been filed, and
other lawsuits may be filed in the future, against our competitors and other businesses, and
although we are not a party to such litigation, the results of those cases may create additional
risks for, and/or impose additional costs and/or limitations on, the subsidiaries’ business
operations.


Lawsuits against us often seek significant monetary damages. Moreover, as courts resolve
individual or class action litigation in insurance or related fields, a new layer of court-imposed
regulation could emerge, resulting in material increases in our costs of doing business. Such
litigation is inherently unpredictable. Except to the extent we have established reserves with
respect to particular lawsuits that are currently pending against us, we are unable to predict the
effect, if any, that these pending or future lawsuits may have on our business, operations,
profitability or financial condition. For further information on pending litigation, see Note 11,
Litigation, beginning on page App.-A-21 of the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to
this Form 10-K.


Our success depends on our ability to underwrite risks accurately and to charge adequate rates to
policyholders.


Our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations depend on our ability to underwrite
and set rates accurately for a full spectrum of risks. The role of the pricing function is to
ensure that rates are adequate to generate sufficient premium to pay losses, loss adjustment
expenses and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit.


Our ability to price accurately is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation:







     
    •
     
    the availability of sufficient reliable data,




- 13 -




Table of Contents








     
    •
     
    uncertainties inherent in estimates and assumptions, generally,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to conduct a complete and accurate analysis of available data,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to timely recognize changes in trend and to project both the severity and
frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to project changes in certain operating expenses with reasonable certainty,



     

     
    •
     
    the development, selection and application of appropriate rating formulae or other
pricing methodologies,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to innovate with new pricing strategies, and the success of those innovations,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to predict policyholder retention accurately,



     

     
    •
     
    unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action,



     

     
    •
     
    ongoing changes in our claim settlement practices,



     

     
    •
     
    changing driving patterns,



     

     
    •
     
    unexpected changes in the medical sector of the economy, and



     

     
    •
     
    unanticipated changes in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices.




The realization of such risks may result in our pricing being based on stale, inadequate or
inaccurate data or inappropriate analyses, assumptions or methodologies, and may cause us to
estimate incorrectly future changes in the frequency or severity of claims. As a result, we could
underprice risks, which would negatively affect our margins, or we could overprice risks, which
could reduce our volume and competitiveness. In either event, our operating results, financial
condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.


Our financial performance may also be materially adversely affected by severe weather conditions or
other catastrophic losses.


We continue to be exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes, as shown
by the active hurricane seasons in 2004 and 2005. Catastrophes can be caused by natural events,
such as hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe winter weather and
fires, or other events, such as explosions, terrorist attacks, riots, hazardous material releases,
medical epidemics, utility outages or interruptions of communications facilities. The extent of
insured losses from a catastrophe is a function of both our total net insured exposure in the area
affected by the event and the nature and severity of the event. In addition, our business could be
further impaired if a significant portion of our business or systems were shut down by, or if we
were unable to gain access to certain of our facilities as a result of, such an event. Most of our
past catastrophe-related claims have resulted from severe storms. The incidence and severity of
catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. When they occur with enough severity, our financial
performance, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.


Our success depends on our ability to establish accurate loss reserves and to adjust claims
accurately.


Our financial statements include loss reserves, which represent our best estimate of the amounts
that the subsidiaries will ultimately pay on claims that have been incurred, and the related costs
of adjusting those claims, as of the date of the financial statements. There is inherent
uncertainty in the process of establishing property and casualty loss reserves, which can arise
from a number of factors, including:







     
    •
     
    the availability of sufficient reliable data,



     

     
    •
     
    the difficulty in predicting the rate and direction of changes in frequency and severity
trends in multiple markets,



     

     
    •
     
    unexpected changes in medical and auto repair costs,



     

     
    •
     
    unanticipated changes in governing statutes and regulations,



     

     
    •
     
    new or changing interpretations of insurance policy provisions by courts,



     

     
    •
     
    inconsistent decisions in lawsuits regarding coverage and changing theories of liability,



     

     
    •
     
    ongoing changes in our claim settlement practices,



     

     
    •
     
    the accuracy of our estimates of the number or severity of claims that have been
incurred but not reported as of the date of the financial statement,



     

     
    •
     
    the accuracy and adequacy of actuarial techniques and databases used in estimating loss
reserves, and



     

     
    •
     
    the accuracy of estimates of total loss and loss adjustment expenses as determined by
our employees for different categories of claims.




- 14 -




Table of Contents










As a result of these and other risks and uncertainties, ultimate paid losses and loss adjustment
expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from point-in-time estimates of such losses and
expenses, as reflected in the loss reserves included in our financial statements. Consequently,
ultimate losses paid could materially exceed loss reserves and have a materially adverse effect on
our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. Further information on our loss
reserves can be found in the “Liability for Property-Casualty Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses”
discussion beginning on page 8 of this report, as well as our “Report on Loss Reserving Practices,”
which was filed with the SEC on Form 8-K on June 28, 2005.


Likewise, we must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under our policies. Many
factors can affect our ability to pay claims accurately, including the training and experience of
our claims representatives, the claims organization’s culture and the effectiveness of our
management, our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures and systems to
support our claims functions and the success of our concierge-level claims services program. Our
failure to pay claims accurately could result in unanticipated costs to us, lead to material
litigation, undermine customer goodwill and our reputation in the marketplace and impair our brand
image and, as a result, materially adversely affect our financial results, prospects and liquidity.


Our business depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems and business
functions, including our information technology and other business systems.


Our business is highly dependent upon our employees’ ability to perform, in an efficient and
uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as Internet support and 24-hour call
centers, processing new and renewal business, and processing and paying claims. A shut-down of or
inability to access one or more of our facilities, a power outage, or a failure of one or more of
our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our
ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In addition, because our information
technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we
could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party
system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business
interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to
write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner
or perform other necessary business functions. This could result in a materially adverse effect on
our business results, prospects and liquidity.


A security breach of our computer systems could also interrupt or damage our operations or harm our
reputation. In addition, we could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is
misappropriated from our computer systems. Despite the implementation of security measures,
including hiring an independent firm to perform intrusion vulnerability testing of our computer
systems, these systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming
errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of security could
deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to
our systems, which could have a material, adverse effect on our business.


II. Investing Risks


The performance of our fixed-income and equity investment portfolios is subject to investment
risks.


Our fixed-income portfolio is subject to a number of risks, including:







    •
     
    Interest rate risk – the risk of adverse changes in the value of
fixed-income securities as a result of increases in the underlying
market rates, which is the most significant risk to the
fixed-income portfolio.



     

    •
     
    Credit risk – the risk that the value of certain investments may
become impaired due to the deterioration in financial condition of
one or more issuers of those instruments and, ultimately, the risk
of permanent loss in the event of default by an issuer.



     

    •
     
    Concentration risk – the risk that the portfolio may be too
heavily concentrated in the securities of one or more issuers,
sectors or industries, which could result in a significant
decrease in the value of the portfolio in the event of a
deterioration of the financial condition of those issuers or the
market value of their securities.



     

    •
     
    Prepayment or extension risk (applicable to certain securities in
the portfolio, such as residential mortgage-backed securities) –
the risk that, as interest rates change, the principal of such
securities may be repaid earlier than anticipated, adversely
affecting the value of or income from such securities and the
portfolio.




- 15 -




Table of Contents










The common equity portfolio, which is managed to track the Russell 1000 index, is subject to
general movements in the values of equity markets and to the changes in the prices of the
securities we hold. Equity markets and individual securities may be subject to periods of high
volatility. A decline in the aggregate value of the equities that make up the index would be
expected to result in a commensurate decline in the value of our common equity portfolio.


In addition, both the fixed-income and the common equity portfolios are subject to risks inherent
in the nation’s and world’s capital markets. The functioning of those markets, the values of the
investments we hold and our ability to liquidate investments on favorable terms on short notice may
be adversely affected if those markets are disrupted or otherwise affected by local, national or
international events, such as power outages, system failures, wars or terrorist attacks, recessions
or depressions, a significant change in inflation expectations, a significant devaluation of
governmental or private sector credit, currencies or financial markets, or other factors or events.


If the fixed-income or equity portfolios, or both, were to be impaired by market, sector or
issuer-specific conditions to a substantial degree, our liquidity, financial position and financial
results could be materially adversely affected. Under these circumstances, our income from these
investments could be materially reduced, and declines in the value of certain securities could
further reduce our reported earnings and capital levels. A decrease in value of an insurance
company’s investment portfolio could also put the subsidiary at risk of failing to satisfy
regulatory minimum capital requirements. If we at that time are unable to supplement the
subsidiary’s capital from The Progressive Corporation’s other assets or by issuing debt or equity
securities on acceptable terms, our business could be materially adversely affected.


III. Financing Risks


Our insurance subsidiaries may be limited in the amount of dividends that they can pay to the
holding company, which in turn may limit the holding company’s ability to pay dividends to
shareholders, repay indebtedness or make capital contributions to its other subsidiaries or
affiliates.


The Progressive Corporation is a holding company with no business operations of its own.
Consequently, if its subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or make other distributions to The
Progressive Corporation, or are able to pay only limited amounts, Progressive may be unable to pay
dividends to shareholders, make payments on its indebtedness, meet its other obligations,
repurchase its Common Shares, or make capital contributions to or otherwise fund its subsidiaries
or affiliates. Each insurance subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to the holding company may be
limited by one or more of the following factors:







    •
     
    State insurance regulatory authorities require insurance companies to maintain specified minimum levels of statutory
capital and surplus.



     

    •
     
    Competitive pressures require our insurance subsidiaries to maintain financial strength ratings.



     

    •
     
    In certain jurisdictions, prior approval must be obtained from state regulatory authorities for the insurance
subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to affiliated entities, including the holding company.




Further information on state insurance laws and regulations which may limit the ability of our
insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends can be found in Item 5(c), “Dividends,” on page 19 of this
report.


Our financial condition may be adversely affected if one or more parties with which we enter into
significant contracts becomes insolvent or experiences other financial hardship.


Our business is dependent on the performance by third parties of their responsibilities under
various contractual relationships, including without limitation, contracts for the acquisitions of
goods and services (such as telecommunications and information technology equipment and support,
and other services that are integral to our operations) and arrangements for transferring certain
of our risks (including reinsurance used by us in connection with certain of our insurance products
and our corporate insurance policies). If one or more of these parties were to default on the
performance of their obligations under their respective contracts or determine to abandon or
terminate support for a system, product or service that is significant to our business, we could
suffer significant financial losses and operational problems, which could in turn adversely affect
our financial performance, cash flows or results of operations.



- 16 -




Table of Contents





Our access to capital markets, our financing arrangements and our business operations are dependent
on favorable evaluations and ratings by credit and other rating agencies.


Our credit strength is evaluated and rated by various rating agencies, such as Standard & Poor’s
and Moody’s Investors Service. In addition, the financial strength of our insurance subsidiaries
is rated by A.M. Best. Progressive and its insurance subsidiaries currently enjoy favorable,
stable ratings. Downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to access the
capital markets and/or lead to increased borrowing costs in the future (although the interest rates
we pay on our current indebtedness would not be affected). Perceptions of our company by
investors, producers, other businesses and consumers could also be significantly impaired.
Downgrades in the ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could likewise negatively impact our
operations, potentially resulting in lower or negative premium growth. In either event, our
financial performance could be materially adversely affected.



- 17 -




Table of Contents








ITEM 1B