ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSProgressive’s business involves various risks and uncertainties, certain of which are discussed in this section. Management divides these risks into four broad categories in assessing how they may affect our financial condition and operating results, as well as our ability to achieve our business objectives:•Insurance Risks - risks associated with assuming, or indemnifying for, the losses of, or liabilities incurred by, policyholders•Operating Risks - the risks stemming from external or internal events or circumstances that directly or indirectly may affect our insurance operations  •Market Risks - changes in the value of assets held in our investment portfolios, which might result from a variety of factors impacting the investment marketplace generally, or the sectors, industries, or individual securities in which we have invested, and•Credit Risks - the risks that the other party to a transaction will fail to perform according to the terms of a contract, or that we will be unable to satisfy our obligations when due or obtain capital when necessary.Although we have organized risks generally according to these categories in the discussion below, many of the risks may have ramifications in more than one category. For example, although presented as an Operating Risk below, governmental regulation of insurance companies also affects our underwriting, investing and financing activities, which are addressed separately under Insurance Risks, Market Risks, and Credit Risks below. These categories, therefore, should be viewed as a starting point for understanding the significant risks facing us and not as a limitation on the potential impact of the matters discussed.It also should be noted that our business and that of other insurers may be adversely affected by a downturn in general economic conditions and other forces beyond our control. Issues such as unemployment rates, the number of vehicles sold, inflation or deflation, consumer confidence, and construction spending, among a host of other factors, will have a bearing on the amount of insurance that is purchased by consumers and small businesses. In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any such risks or uncertainties, or any of the following risks or uncertainties, develop into actual events, we could experience a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. In that case, the market price of our common shares or debt securities could decline materially.This information is not all encompassing and should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and in the other reports and materials filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), as well as news releases and other information we publicly disseminate from time to time.- 14 -I. Insurance RisksOur success depends on our ability to underwrite risks accurately and to charge adequate rates to policyholders.Our financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations depend on our ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for a full spectrum of risks. A primary role of the pricing function is to ensure that rates are adequate to generate sufficient premiums to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses, and underwriting expenses, and to earn a profit.  Pricing involves the acquisition and analysis of historical accident and loss data, and the projection of future accident trends, loss costs and expenses, and inflation trends, among other factors, for each of our products in multiple risk tiers and many different markets. Our ability to price accurately is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation:•the availability of sufficient, reliable data•our ability to conduct a complete and accurate analysis of available data•uncertainties inherent in estimates and assumptions, generally•our ability to timely recognize changes in trends and to predict both the severity and frequency of future losses with reasonable accuracy•our ability to predict changes in operating expenses with reasonable accuracy•the development, selection, and application of appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies•our ability to innovate with new pricing strategies, and the success of those strategies•our ability to implement rate changes and obtain any required regulatory approvals on a timely basis•our ability to predict policyholder retention accurately•unanticipated court decisions, legislation, or regulatory action•the frequency and severity of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, hail storms, floods, other severe weather, and terrorist events•our ability to understand the impact of ongoing changes in our claims settlement practices•changing driving patterns•advancements in vehicle technology and safety features, such as accident prevention technologies or the development of  autonomous or partially autonomous vehicles•unexpected changes in the medical sector of the economy, including medical costs and systemic changes resulting from national or state health care laws or regulations•unforeseen disruptive technologies, events, legislation, or regulation, and•unanticipated changes in auto repair costs, auto parts prices, and used car prices.The realization of one or more of these risks may result in our pricing being based on inadequate or inaccurate data or inappropriate analyses, assumptions, or methodologies, and may cause us to estimate incorrectly future changes in the frequency or severity of claims. As a result, we could underprice risks, which would negatively affect our underwriting profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our competitiveness and growth prospects. In either event, our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, underpricing insurance policies over time could erode the capital position of one or more of our insurance subsidiaries, thereby constraining our ability to write new business.  - 15 -Our success depends on our ability to establish accurate loss reserves.  Our financial statements include loss reserves, which represent our best estimate of the amounts that the subsidiaries ultimately will pay on claims that have been incurred, and the related costs of adjusting those claims, as of the date of the financial statements. There is inherent uncertainty in the process of establishing property and casualty insurance loss reserves, which can arise from a number of factors, including:•the availability of sufficient, reliable data•the difficulty in predicting the rate and direction of changes in frequency and severity trends, including the effects of future inflation rates, in multiple markets•unexpected changes in medical and auto repair costs•unanticipated changes in governing statutes and regulations•new or changing interpretations of insurance policy provisions and coverage-related issues by courts•the effects of changes in our claims settlement practices•our ability to recognize fraudulent or inflated claims•the accuracy of our estimates regarding claims that have been incurred but not recorded as of the date of the financial statements•the accuracy and adequacy of actuarial techniques and databases used in estimating loss reserves, and•the accuracy and timeliness of estimates of total loss and loss adjustment expenses as determined by our employees for different categories of claims.As a result of these and other risks and uncertainties, the ultimate paid losses and loss adjustment expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from point-in-time estimates of such losses and expenses, as reflected in the loss reserves included in our financial statements. Consequently, ultimate losses paid could materially exceed reported loss reserves and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, or financial position. Further information on our loss reserves can be found in the “Liability for Property-Casualty Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses” discussion beginning on page 10 of this report, as well as our “Report on Loss Reserving Practices,” which was filed with the SEC on Form 8-K on July 12, 2013.Our insurance operating results may be materially adversely affected by severe weather conditions or other catastrophic events. Catastrophes can be caused by natural events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, floods, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, and fires, or other events, such as explosions, terrorist attacks, riots, and hazardous material releases. The incidence and severity of such events are inherently unpredictable. Moreover, changing climate conditions, whether due to an increase in average temperatures (global climate change) or other causes, may increase how often severe weather events and other natural disasters occur and how much insured damage they cause. The extent of insured losses from a catastrophe is a function of both our total net insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the nature and severity of the event. We use catastrophe modeling tools and third-party experts to help estimate our exposures to such events. Those tools and expert opinions are based on historical data and other assumptions that limit their reliability, and they may become even less reliable as climatic conditions change. As a result, our forecasting efforts may generate projections that prove to be materially inaccurate. An increase in the frequency or severity of catastrophes during a given period could materially adversely affect our financial performance, cash flows, and results of operations.II. Operating RisksWe compete in the automobile insurance and other property-casualty markets, which are highly competitive. We face vigorous competition from large, well-capitalized national and international companies, as well as smaller regional insurers. Other large national and international insurance or financial services companies also may enter these markets in the future. Many of these companies have substantial resources, experienced management, and strong marketing, underwriting, and pricing capabilities. The automobile insurance industry is a relatively mature industry, in which brand recognition, marketing skills, operational effectiveness (including, for example, rate and claim-paying accuracy, customer experience, and application of information and other technologies), pricing, scale, and cost control are major competitive factors. - 16 -Our business focuses on insurance for personal autos and recreational vehicles and on commercial auto policies for small businesses, all of which are highly competitive markets. If our competitors offer similar insurance products at lower prices, offer such insurance products bundled with other products or services that we do not offer, or engage in other successful competitive initiatives, our ability to generate new business or to retain a sufficient number of our existing customers could be seriously compromised. In addition, due to our focus on the auto insurance market, we may be more sensitive than other insurers to trends that could affect auto insurance coverages and rates over time.  For example, if governmental mandates or restrictions, economic conditions, demographic trends, changing driving patterns, rising gasoline prices, advancements in vehicle technology or safety features, or other factors, were to result in decreased demand for auto insurance or decreased auto insurance rates for an extended period, the automobile insurance market as a whole could shrink and our ability to generate revenue growth could be significantly impaired.   Historically, the auto insurance industry has been known as a cyclical industry, with periods of relatively strong profitability being followed by increased pricing competition among insurers. This price competition, which is sometimes referred to as a “soft market,” can adversely affect revenue and profitability levels. Unexpected increases in the insurers’ underlying costs (such as vehicle repair costs, medical costs, and the expenses to resolve claims) can reduce profits or result in underwriting losses. As the insurers recognize this situation (which can occur at different times for different companies, as a result of varying loss cost experiences, trend recognition capabilities, and profitability goals), the historical reaction has been for insurers to raise their rates (sometimes referred to as a “hard market”) in an attempt to restore profit to acceptable levels. As more insurers react in this way, profit levels in the industry may increase to a point where some insurers begin to lower their rates, starting the cycle over again. In the past, this cycle has generally played out over a number of years. We cannot be certain whether and to what extent such cyclicality is currently impacting the auto insurance market, nor can we predict whether it will do so in the future.The highly competitive nature of the insurance marketplace could result in the consolidation of our competition, or in the failure of one or more competitors. The concentration of premium volume in a reduced number of major competitors could significantly alter the competitive landscape in ways that cannot be predicted, but which may or may not be favorable for Progressive’s business prospects at that time. In addition, in the event of a failure of a major insurer or a state-sponsored catastrophic fund, we could be adversely affected, as our company and other insurance companies may be required under the laws of various jurisdictions to absorb the losses of the failed insurer or fund, and we could be faced with an unexpected surge in new business from a failed insurer’s former policyholders, which could strain our service capabilities in the near term.  Our success depends on the ability to innovate effectively, respond to our competitors’ initiatives, and efficiently manage complexity, while delivering high quality products and services. From time to time, we undertake strategic initiatives to maintain and improve our competitive position in auto insurance markets. Based on a culture that encourages innovation, these strategies at times involve significant departures from our, and/or our competitors’, then-current or historical modes of doing business, and must be instituted in the context of a complicated regulatory environment. These innovations also may require extensive modifications to our systems and processes, and thus may add to our costs and entail a high degree of complexity and risk, which makes their implementation a challenge. In addition, our efforts may disrupt our relationships with certain of our customers and producers (i.e., agents and brokers). Many of these initiatives are also implemented in cooperation with, or in reliance on, third-party vendors and their systems, which may further limit our control of implementation, quality, customer experiences, and successful outcomes. Our efforts ultimately may not achieve the business goals that we have set. Our ability to develop and implement such strategic initiatives that are accepted and valued by our customers and create a sustainable advantage is critical, however, to maintaining or enhancing our competitive position; if we fail to do so, or if we are unable to maintain the advantage over our competition, our business could be materially adversely affected.  At the same time, innovations by competitors or other market participants may increase the level of competition in the industry and adversely affect our competitive position. These developments can include product, pricing, or marketing innovations, new or improved services, technological advances, or new ways of doing business, among other initiatives. Recent examples of significant developments in the marketplace include: new ways for customers to shop and compare prices from multiple companies, the growth in mobile communications and consumers’ desire to transact business on mobile devices, the prominence of social media as a source of information for consumers, and the availability of very large volumes of data and the challenges related to analyzing those data sets (sometimes referred to as “big data”). Our ability to react to such advances, develop and maintain winning strategies, and then navigate the new competitive environment is important to our success.- 17 -Ongoing competitive, technological, regulatory, and other developments result in significant levels of complexity in our products and in the systems and processes we use to run our business. This complexity may create barriers to implementing or defending certain new ideas or providing high-quality products and customer experiences, may require us to modify our business practices, to adopt new systems, or to upgrade or replace outdated systems, each at significant expense, and may lead to the increased possibility of error in executing our business strategies. In addition, we must make difficult decisions regarding the optimal allocation of available resources (such as information technology resources) for competing initiatives or projects. Complexity in our industry is compounded by the proliferation of patents related to new ways in which vehicle insurance is being marketed, sold, and serviced, which may result in legal challenges to certain of our business practices by other insurance companies and non-insurance entities alleging that we are violating their patent rights.  Similarly, we may seek or obtain patent protection for innovations developed by us.  However, defending our business practices against patent challenges, and enforcing and defending our patent rights, including if necessary through litigation, can be time consuming and expensive, and the results are inherently uncertain, further complicating business plans related to these efforts.If we are unable to manage this complexity effectively, to bring new ideas to market, to allocate and prioritize appropriately our resources, or to prevent errors, our businesses could experience decreased ability to compete effectively for insurance business, poor experiences for customers, substantially increased costs, liability to third parties, regulatory investigations and sanctions, and damage to our brand.  We must develop and maintain a brand that is recognized and trusted by consumers.It is critical to our business that consumers recognize and trust the Progressive brand. We undertake distinctive advertising and marketing campaigns and other efforts to improve brand recognition, enhance consumers’ perceptions of us, generate new business, and increase the retention of our current customers. We believe that improving the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing campaigns relative to those of our competitors is particularly important given the significance of brand and reputation in the marketplace and the continuing high level of advertising and marketing efforts and related expenditures within the automobile insurance market. If our campaigns are unsuccessful or are less effective than those of competitors, or if our reliance on a particular spokesperson or character is compromised, our business could be materially adversely affected.  Our brand also could be adversely affected by incidents that reflect negatively on our company. These situations might include, among others, failing to protect sensitive customer information, systems failures, effects of cyber attacks (such as computer hacking, data theft, system disruption, and viruses and malware), errors in handling a customer’s policy, inappropriate handling of claims, misconduct by our officers, directors or employees or others acting on our behalf, inability to service outstanding policies or write new business due to our systems failures or the failure of third-party systems that we use, facility shut-downs or other causes, litigation or regulatory actions challenging our business practices, and actions by our other business partners, including unaffiliated businesses through which we offer bundled products (such as homeowners insurance), and many of the other matters that are discussed in these Risk Factors. Moreover, the negative impacts of these or other events may be aggravated as the perceptions of consumers and others are formed based on modern communication and social media tools over which we have no control.  Our ability to attract, develop, and retain talented employees, managers, and executives, and to maintain appropriate staffing levels, is critical to our success. Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop, compensate, motivate, and retain talented employees, including executives, other key managers, and employees with strong technical, analytical, and other skills necessary for us to run our business. Our loss of certain key officers and employees, or the failure to attract or develop talented executives and managers with diverse backgrounds and experiences, could have a materially adverse effect on our business. In addition, we must forecast sales and claims volume and other factors in changing business environments (for multiple business units and in many geographic markets) with reasonable accuracy and adjust our hiring and training programs and employment levels accordingly. Our failure to recognize the need for such adjustments, or our failure or inability to react appropriately on a timely basis, could lead either to over-staffing (which would adversely affect our cost structure) or under-staffing (impairing quality and our ability to service our ongoing and new business) in one or more business units or locations. In either such event, our financial results, customer relationships, and brand could be materially adversely affected.- 18 -Our success also depends, in large part, on our ability to maintain and improve the staffing effectiveness and employee culture that we have developed over the years. Our ability to do so may be impaired as a result of litigation against us, other judicial decisions, legislation or regulations, or other factors in the employment marketplace, as well as our failure to recognize and respond to changing trends and other circumstances that  affect our employees. In such events, the productivity of certain of our workers and the efficiency of our operations could be adversely affected, which could lead to an erosion of our operating performance and margins.The Progressive Corporation and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex laws and regulations.Progressive’s insurance businesses operate in highly regulated environments. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by state insurance departments in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Australia, each of which has a unique and complex set of laws and regulations. In addition, certain federal laws impose additional requirements on businesses, including insurers, in a wide range of areas, such as the use of credit information, privacy, and the reimbursement of certain medical costs incurred by the government. Our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to implement business plans and remain competitive while complying with these laws and regulations, and to obtain necessary regulatory action in a timely manner, is and will continue to be critical to our success. Most jurisdictions impose restrictions on, or require prior regulatory approval of, various actions by regulated insurers, which may adversely affect our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to operate, innovate, and obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner. Our compliance efforts are further complicated by changes in laws or regulations applicable to insurance companies, or by court-imposed interpretations of those laws or regulations, such as, in recent years, matters concerning the use of nonpublic consumer information and related privacy issues, the use of credit scoring in underwriting, procedures for settling claims with our insureds and claimants, and efforts to freeze, set, or roll back insurance premium rates or limit the rate of return that an insurance company may earn. Insurance laws and regulations may limit, among other things, our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, prevent our subsidiaries from obtaining timely rate changes to recognize increased or decreased costs, restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to discontinue unprofitable businesses or exit unprofitable markets, prevent insurers from terminating policies under certain circumstances, prescribe the form and content of certain disclosures and notices to policyholders, and dictate the types of investments that an insurance company may hold. Moreover, inconsistencies between requirements at the state and federal level may further complicate our compliance efforts, potentially resulting in additional costs being imposed on us.  In addition, laws in certain jurisdictions mandate that insurance companies pay assessments in a number of circumstances, including assessments to pay claims upon the insolvency of other insurance companies or to cover losses in government-provided insurance programs for high risk auto and homeowners coverages. Compliance with laws and regulations often results in increased costs, which can be substantial, to our insurance subsidiaries. These costs, in turn, may adversely affect our profitability or our ability or desire to grow or operate our business in the applicable jurisdictions.    The actual or alleged failure to comply with this complex variety of laws and regulations by us or other companies in the insurance, financial services, or related industries, also could result in actions or investigations by regulators, state attorneys general, federal officials, or other law enforcement officials. Such actions and investigations, and any determination that we have not complied with an applicable law or regulation, could potentially lead to significant monetary payments, fines and penalties, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation in the marketplace, and in extreme cases, revocation of a subsidiary’s authority to do business in one or more jurisdictions. In addition, The Progressive Corporation and its subsidiaries could face individual and class action lawsuits by insureds and other parties for alleged violations of certain of these laws or regulations. New federal or state legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future which could adversely affect our operations or ability to write business profitably in one or more jurisdictions. From time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary. For example, the Federal Insurance Office (FIO) collects information about the insurance industry and monitors the industry for systemic risk. In December 2013, the FIO submitted a report to Congress recommending reforms intended to modernize and improve the U.S. system of insurance regulation. The report proposes significant changes to existing state regulations and includes a number of recommendations that would result in direct federal regulation of the insurance industry.  At this time, we are unable to predict whether any additional state or federal laws or regulations will be enacted as a result of the FIO report, or as a result of other legislative, regulatory or reform efforts, and how and to what extent such laws and regulations would affect our businesses.   Insurance regulation may create risks and uncertainties for Progressive’s insurance subsidiaries in other ways as well. For further information on these risks and uncertainties, see the “Insurance Regulation” discussion beginning on page 6 of this report. - 19 -Our success depends on our ability to adjust claims accurately.  We must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under our insurance policies. Many factors can affect our ability to pay claims accurately, including the training, experience, and skill of our claims representatives, the extent of and our ability to recognize and respond to fraudulent or inflated claims, the claims organization’s culture and the effectiveness of its management, our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures, technologies, and systems to support our claims functions, and the effectiveness of our service center program and other methods of resolving claims. Our failure to pay claims fairly, accurately, and in a timely manner, or to deploy claims resources appropriately, could result in unanticipated costs to us, lead to material litigation, undermine customer goodwill and our reputation in the marketplace, and impair our brand image and, as a result, materially adversely affect our competitiveness, financial results, prospects, and liquidity.Lawsuits challenging our business practices, and those of our competitors and other companies, are pending and more may be filed in the future. The Progressive Corporation and/or its subsidiaries are named as defendants in class action and other lawsuits challenging various aspects of the subsidiaries’ business operations. Other such litigation may arise in the future concerning similar or other business practices. These lawsuits have recently included cases alleging damages as a result of our subsidiaries’ use of credit in underwriting and related requirements under the U.S. Fair Credit Reporting Act; methods used for evaluating and paying certain bodily injury, personal injury protection, and medical payment claims; other claims handling procedures; challenges to our direct repair program and service center program; interpretations of the provisions of our insurance policies; policy implementation and renewal procedures; and employment-related litigation, including federal wage and hour claims, among other matters. From time to time, we also may be involved in litigation or other disputes alleging that certain of our subsidiaries’ business practices or systems violate the patent, trademark, or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Additional litigation may be filed against us concerning allegations of medical or attorney malpractice, and other general liability causes of action arising from our operations. In addition, lawsuits have been filed, and other lawsuits may be filed in the future, against our competitors and other businesses, and although we are not a party to such litigation, the results of those cases may create additional risks for, and/or impose additional costs and/or limitations on, our subsidiaries’ business operations.Lawsuits against us often seek significant monetary damages and injunctive relief. The potential for injunctive relief can threaten our use of important business practices, including how vehicles are repaired and other claims are settled.  Moreover, the resolution of individual or class action litigation in insurance or related fields may lead to a new layer of court-imposed regulation, resulting in material increases in our costs of doing business.  Litigation is inherently unpredictable. Except to the extent we have established reserves with respect to particular lawsuits that are currently pending against us, we are unable to predict the effect, if any, that these pending or any future lawsuits may have on our business, operations, profitability, or financial condition. For further information on pending litigation, see Note 12 - Litigation in our Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by a security breach or other attack involving our computer systems or the systems of one or more of our vendors.Our business requires that we build and maintain large and complex computer systems to run our operations and to store the significant volume of data that we acquire, including the personal confidential information of our customers and employees and our intellectual property, trade secrets, and other sensitive business and financial information. These systems are subject to attacks by sophisticated third parties with substantial computing resources and capabilities. Such attacks may include, among other things, attempts to gain unauthorized access to: •steal, corrupt, or destroy data •misappropriate funds •disrupt or shut down our systems •deny customers, agents, brokers, or others access to our systems, or •infect our systems with viruses or malware.  Similarly, an employee, consultant, agent, or other person with legitimate access to our systems may take actions, or be the subject of a security breach or cyber attack, which could result in improper or unauthorized access to our systems, and in the loss, corruption, or theft of our intellectual property or the personal information of our customers or employees.- 20 -We also conduct significant business functions and computer operations using the systems of third-party vendors, which may provide software, data storage, communication, and other computer services to us (some of which may be referred to as “cloud computing”). These third-party systems may experience cyber attacks and other security breaches, along with the possible risk of loss, corruption, or unauthorized publication of Progressive’s information or the confidential information of our customers and employees. These relationships present further risk management challenges for us, including, among others: confirming and monitoring the third-party’s security measures; the potential for improper handling of or access to, or the inability to retrieve, our data; and data location uncertainty and the possibility of data storage in inappropriate jurisdictions, where laws or security measures may be inadequate. We undertake substantial efforts to protect our systems and sensitive or confidential information. These efforts include internal processes and technological defenses that are preventative or detective, and other controls designed to provide multiple layers of security assurance. Examples include physical security measures, access and password policies, firewalls, systems monitoring, malicious code protection, network and host-based intrusion detection and prevention measures, data loss prevention measures, configuration assurance, data encryption, and event management, as well as third-party testing. In addition, we seek to assure the security and confidentiality of information provided to our vendors under “cloud computing” or other arrangements through appropriate risk evaluation, security and financial due diligence, contracts designed to set and maintain high security and confidentiality standards, and ongoing testing, auditing, and evaluation of third-party compliance with the required standards. While we expend significant resources on these defensive measures, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing attacks or detecting and stopping them once they have begun.  Our business could be significantly damaged by a security breach, data loss or corruption, or cyber attack. In addition to the potentially high costs of investigating and stopping such an event and implementing necessary fixes, we could incur substantial liability if confidential customer information is stolen or if another party’s systems are adversely affected. In addition, such an event could cause a significant disruption of our ability to conduct our insurance operations, adversely affect our competitive position if material trade secrets or other confidential information are stolen, and have severe ramifications on our reputation and brand, potentially causing customers to refrain from buying insurance from us or other businesses to refrain from doing business with us. We have elected to self-insure these risks at this time. The occurrence of a security breach, data loss or corruption, or cyber attack, if sufficiently severe, could have a materially adverse effect on our business results, prospects, and liquidity. We also rely heavily on credit card acceptance for payment of premiums and claims deductibles. Data security standards for merchants and service providers that accept credit card payments are prescribed by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council (PCI), an independent body formed by an association of the major credit card vendors. These standards are intended to promote a common set of data security measures that companies accepting credit card payments, such as Progressive, must satisfy with respect to the handling of sensitive information. While the PCI standards set a high bar for data security, compliance with them does not alone ensure that sensitive information will be maintained on a secure basis. In September 2013, an independent organization recognized by PCI for such purposes, recertified Progressive as being in compliance with the current PCI standards. The PCI data security standards, however, will likely evolve over time to address emerging payment security risks and other issues, requiring additional compliance efforts by us and annual recertification of our processes. Our intention is to maintain compliance with PCI's data security standards. The failure to do so could result in contractual fines or disruption of our ability to receive credit card payments.Our business depends on the secure and uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems, and business functions.Our business is highly dependent upon our employees’ ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted manner, necessary business functions (such as Internet support and 24-hour call centers), processing new and renewal business, and processing and paying claims and other obligations. Our facilities and systems could become unavailable, inoperable, or otherwise impaired from a variety of causes, including, without limitation, natural events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, severe winter weather and fires, or other events, such as explosions, terrorist attacks, computer security breaches or cyber attacks (as discussed above), riots, hazardous material releases, medical epidemics, utility outages, interruptions of our data processing and storage systems or the systems of third-party vendors, or unavailability of communications facilities. Likewise, we could experience a failure or corruption of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications, or other systems for various reasons, including failures that might occur as existing systems are replaced or upgraded. - 21 -The shut-down or unavailability of one or more of our systems or facilities for any reason could significantly impair our ability to perform critical business functions on a timely basis. In addition, many of our critical business systems interface with and depend on third-party systems; we could experience service denials if demand for a third party’s services exceeds capacity or if a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, and if an alternate system, process, or vendor is not immediately available to us, such events could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, resolve and pay claims in a timely manner, or perform other necessary business functions. Any such event could result in a materially adverse effect on our business results, prospects, and liquidity, as well as damage to customer goodwill and to our brand.  Our business is also highly dependent on access to, and the operation of, the financial markets and related facilities to provide us with the ability to liquidate securities and transfer or receive funds on a timely basis. Disruptions in financial markets, or an interruption or breakdown in the federal wire transfer systems, could limit our ability to meet payment obligations. A mismatch or timing difference between our cash inflows and our cash needs, or the inability to convert investment securities into cash when needed, could also adversely affect our ability to make timely payments.  III. Market RisksThe performance of our fixed-income and equity investment portfolios is subject to a variety of investment risks.Our investment portfolio is comprised principally of fixed-income securities and common equities. Our fixed-income portfolio is actively managed by our investment group and includes short-term investments, fixed-maturity securities, and preferred stocks. The performance of the fixed-income portfolio is subject to a number of risks, including:•Interest rate risk - the risk of adverse changes in the value of fixed-income securities as a result of increases in market interest rates.•Investment credit risk - the risk that the value of certain investments may decrease due to a deterioration in the financial condition, operating performance or business prospects of, or the liquidity available to, one or more issuers of those securities or, in the case of asset-backed securities, due to the deterioration of the loans or other assets that underlie the securities. This risk includes the possibility of permanent loss. In the case of governmental issuers, the risk includes the potential for unbalanced budgets, required austerity measures, debt defaults, bankruptcies, or other social or political turmoil.   •Concentration risk - the risk that the portfolio may be too heavily concentrated in the securities of one or more issuers, sectors, or industries, which could result in a significant decrease in the value of the portfolio in the event of a deterioration of the financial condition or performance of, or outlook for, those issuers, sectors, or industries.•Prepayment or extension risk - applicable to certain securities in the portfolio, such as residential mortgage-backed securities and other bonds with call provisions. Prepayment risk is the risk that, as interest rates change, the principal of such securities may be repaid earlier than anticipated, requiring that we reinvest the proceeds at less attractive rates. Extension risk is the risk that a security may not be redeemed when anticipated, adversely affecting the value of the security and preventing the reinvestment of the principal at higher market rates. •Liquidity risk - the risk that we will not be able to convert investment securities into cash on favorable terms and on a timely basis, or that we will not be able to sell them at all, when we desire to do so.  Disruptions in the financial markets, or a lack of buyers for the specific securities that we are trying to sell, could prevent us from liquidating securities or cause a reduction in prices to levels that are not acceptable to us. In addition, the success of our investment strategies and asset allocations in the fixed-income portfolio may vary depending on the market environment. The fixed-income portfolio’s performance also may be adversely impacted if, among other factors: there is a deterioration in the underlying businesses of the issuers of the securities that we purchase; credit ratings assigned to such securities by nationally recognized securities rating organizations are based on incomplete or inaccurate information or otherwise prove unwarranted; or our risk mitigation strategies are ineffective for the applicable market conditions. - 22 -The common equity portfolio is primarily managed by a third party to track the Russell 1000 Index, with a small portion actively managed by external investment advisory firms. Our equity investments are subject to general movements in the values of equity markets and to the changes in the prices of the securities we hold. An investment portfolio that is designed to track an index, such as the Russell 1000, or that follows a specific investment discipline, such as value investing, does not reduce the risks inherent in equity investing and is not necessarily less risky than other equity investment strategies. Equity markets, sectors, industries, and individual securities may be subject to high volatility and to long periods of depressed or declining valuations, and also may be subject to some of the same risks that affect our fixed-income portfolio, as discussed above. In addition, even though the Russell 1000 Index is broadly diversified, significant portions of the index may be concentrated in one or more sectors, such as energy, technology, or financial services, which may adversely affect the performance of our common equity portfolio if such a sector underperforms. A decline in the aggregate value of the equities that make up the index would be expected to result in a commensurate decline both in the value of our common equity portfolio and in our capital.  Likewise, the actively managed equity portfolio will be subject to risks arising from the investment decisions of the investment advisors, including sector or industry concentrations, lack of geographic diversification, and the performance of individual issuers.   Both the fixed-income and the common equity portfolios are also subject to risks inherent in the nation’s and world’s capital markets. The functioning of those markets, the values of the investments we hold, and our ability to liquidate them when desired may be adversely affected if those markets are disrupted or otherwise affected by significant negative factors, including, without limitation:  •local, national, or international events, such as regulatory changes, power outages, system failures, wars, or terrorist attacks•a recession, depression, political or social upheaval, or other development in either the U.S. or other economies that adversely affects the value of securities held in our portfolios •financial weakness or failure of one or more financial institutions that play a prominent role in securities markets or act as a counterparty for various financial instruments, such as derivative transactions, which could further disrupt the markets or cause us to incur losses if counterparties to one or more of our transactions should default•inactive markets for specific kinds of securities, or for the securities of certain issuers or in certain sectors, which could result in decreased valuations and impact our ability to sell a specific security or a group of securities at a reasonable price when desired•the failure, or perceived failure, of governmental attempts to stabilize their budgets or economies through austerity programs, tax increases or other measures, to stabilize specific companies or groups of companies through capital injections, to shore up markets, or otherwise to spur economic recovery or growth, or the failure or refusal of a government to engage in such efforts•investor fear, whether substantiated or not•a significant change in inflation expectations or the onset of deflation •a default on sovereign debt, or the perception that such a default is likely, and•a significant devaluation of governmental or private sector credit, currencies or financial markets, or other factors or events.  If the fixed-income or equity portfolios, or both, were to suffer a substantial decrease in value due to market, sector, or issuer-specific conditions, our liquidity, financial position, and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Under these circumstances, our income from these investments could be materially reduced, and declines in the value of certain securities could further reduce our reported earnings and capital levels. A decrease in value of an insurance subsidiary’s investment portfolio could also put the subsidiary at risk of failing to satisfy regulatory minimum capital requirements and could limit the subsidiary’s ability to write new business. If we, at that time, are unable to supplement the subsidiary’s capital from The Progressive Corporation’s other assets or by issuing debt or equity securities on acceptable terms, our business could be materially adversely affected.  See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K, for additional discussion of the composition of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2013, and of the market risk associated with our investment portfolio.- 23 -IV.  Credit RisksOur financial condition may be adversely affected if one or more parties with which we enter into significant contracts become insolvent, experience other financial difficulties, or default in the performance of contractual obligations.Our business is dependent on the performance by third parties of their responsibilities under various contractual or service arrangements. These include, for example, contracts for the acquisition of goods and services (such as telecommunications and information technology facilities, equipment and support, and other systems and services that are integral to our operations), agreements with other insurance carriers to bundle products that we do not offer, and arrangements for transferring certain of our risks (including reinsurance used by us in connection with certain of our insurance products and our corporate insurance policies). In addition, from time to time, we enter into significant financial transactions, such as derivative instruments, with major banks or other financial institutions. If one or more of these parties were to default in the performance of their obligations under their respective contracts or determine to abandon or terminate support for a system, product, or service that is significant to our business, we could suffer significant financial losses and operational interruptions or other problems, which in turn could adversely affect our financial performance, cash flows, or results of operations and cause damage to our brand and reputation.Our insurance subsidiaries may be limited in the amount of dividends that they can pay to the holding company, which in turn may limit the holding company’s ability to repay indebtedness, make capital contributions to its other subsidiaries or affiliates, pay dividends to shareholders, or repurchase its securities. The Progressive Corporation is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Consequently, if its subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or make other distributions to The Progressive Corporation, or are able to pay only limited amounts, Progressive may be unable to make payments on its indebtedness, make capital contributions to or otherwise fund its subsidiaries or affiliates, pay dividends to shareholders, repurchase its common shares or other securities, or meet its other obligations. Each insurance subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to the holding company may be limited by one or more of the following factors:  •insurance regulatory authorities require insurance companies to maintain specified minimum levels of statutory capital and surplus  •insurance regulations restrict the amounts available for distribution based on either net income or surplus of the insurance company•competitive pressures require our insurance subsidiaries to maintain high financial strength ratings, or•in certain jurisdictions, prior approval must be obtained from regulatory authorities for the insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to affiliated entities, including the parent holding company.Further information on insurance laws and regulations that may limit the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends can be found in Item 5(c), “Dividends,” of this report.If we fail to maintain sufficient capital to support our business, our financial condition and our ability to grow could be adversely affected.We intend to maintain capital levels as necessary to pay all claims and other business expenses, to meet regulatory requirements, to support the growth of our insurance businesses, to provide for additional protection against possible large, unexpected losses, and to provide the necessary resources to pay dividends, repurchase stock or other securities, and fund corporate opportunities. Management determines our capital needs at any given time based on a number of factors, including:•regulatory capital and surplus requirements applicable to our insurance subsidiaries•current and anticipated performance of our insurance operations and investment portfolios •growth prospects for our insurance businesses •expected significant expenditures and available business opportunities •our capital management activities, such as scheduled debt payments, the payment of cash dividends, repurchases of our common shares and debt securities, the availability of credit lines, and the issuance by us of debt, equity, or other securities, and•projections of the levels of capital needed to protect us against unexpected events within a confidence level determined through our risk management process. - 24 -The amount of capital that we seek to maintain also is driven by our assessment of potential exposures and correlations to our underwriting, investing, and operating risks, including those discussed in these Risk Factors. The estimates for unexpected events are internally produced and are the result of extensive analysis and modeling of the types and magnitude of risks that we are likely to face. While we regularly implement new measures to improve our techniques for estimating our capital needs, our ability to predict accurately the nature, size, and scope of unexpected events is inherently uncertain.  If regulatory requirements for capital and surplus were to increase, we would likely be required to increase the amount of capital that we hold at our insurance subsidiaries.  Also, if we experience losses in our insurance operations or from our investment portfolio, our capital levels may be reduced, perhaps significantly. If our capital level falls lower than the amount needed at a given time, our ability to grow and successfully operate the insurance business could be constrained, and our flexibility to pay dividends, repurchase our securities, or engage in other corporate transactions could be limited, until additional sources of capital are secured. Such a deterioration of our financial condition could adversely affect the perception of our company by insurance regulators and other third parties (such as rating agencies, underwriters, institutional and other investors, and consumers), potentially resulting in regulatory actions or our inability to gain access to debt or equity markets at favorable rates, and the price of our common shares or debt securities could fall significantly. In addition, the recoverability of certain of our deferred tax assets is predicated on the market valuation of our invested assets and certain tax planning strategies that, in part, depend on the substantial recovery to original cost of our fixed-income securities and redeemable preferred stocks. Should fair values of such securities decline or not substantially recover in value, a valuation allowance against the related deferred tax assets may become necessary, which would reduce our capital levels.Our access to capital markets, ability to enter into new or renew existing financing arrangements, obligations to post collateral under certain derivative contracts, and business operations are dependent on favorable evaluations and ratings by credit and other rating agencies.  Our credit and financial strength are evaluated and rated by various rating agencies, such as Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings, and A.M. Best. Progressive and its insurance subsidiaries currently enjoy favorable, stable ratings. Downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets and/or lead to increased borrowing costs in the future (although the interest rates we pay on our current indebtedness would not be affected), as would adverse recommendations by equity analysts at the various brokerage houses and investment firms. Perceptions of our company by investors, producers, other businesses, and consumers could also be significantly impaired. In addition, a downgrade could trigger contractual obligations in certain derivative transactions requiring us to post substantial amounts of collateral, in cash or high-grade assets, for the benefit of the other party to the transaction, or allow the other party to liquidate the derivatives transaction. Downgrades in the ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could likewise negatively impact our operations, potentially resulting in lower or negative premium growth. In any such event, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. The Progressive Corporation’s annual dividend policy will result in a variable payment to shareholders each year, or no payment in some years, and the dividend program ultimately may be changed in the discretion of the Board of Directors.We have previously announced our intention to pay a dividend to shareholders on an annual basis under a formula that multiplies our annual after-tax underwriting income by a percentage factor set by the Board of Directors (33-1/3% for 2013 and 2014) and then by the Gainshare factor (determined under our employee Gainsharing (cash bonus) plans based on the operating performance of our principal insurance businesses). If our Gainshare factor for the year is zero or after-tax comprehensive income (which includes net investment income, realized investment gains and losses, and the change in unrealized investment gains and losses) is less than after-tax underwriting income, no dividend will be paid under our annual variable dividend policy. Because the dividend calculation is performance-based, the amount (if any) to be paid in any particular year may not be subject to accurate prediction and will likely vary, perhaps significantly, from the amounts paid in the preceding year(s). As a result, the amount paid may be inconsistent with some shareholders’ expectations. In addition, although we have announced our intent to repeat the annual variable dividend in 2014 (to be paid early in 2015), the dividend, if any, would not be declared by the Board until late 2014 or early 2015, and the Board retains the discretion, at any time, to alter our policy or not to pay the annual dividend for 2014 or future years. Such an action by the Board could result from, among other reasons, changes in the insurance marketplace, changes in our performance or capital needs, changes in U.S. federal income tax laws, disruptions of national or international capital markets, or other events affecting our liquidity, financial position or prospects, as described above under “Market Risks.” Any such change could adversely affect investors’ perceptions of the company and the value of, or the total return of an investment in, our common shares or debt securities.  - 25 -We do not manage to short-term earnings expectations; our goal is to maximize the long-term value of the enterprise, which at times may adversely affect short-term results.We believe that shareholder value will be increased in the long run if we meet or exceed the financial goals and policies that we establish each year. We do not manage our business to maximize short-term stock performance or the amount of the dividend that may be paid under our annual variable dividend policy or otherwise. We report earnings and other operating results on a monthly basis. We also do not provide earnings estimates to the market and do not comment on earnings estimates by analysts. As a result, our reported results for a particular period may vary, perhaps significantly, from investors’ expectations, which could result in significant volatility in the price of our common shares or debt securities. In addition, due to our focus on the long-term value of the enterprise, we may undertake business strategies and establish related financial goals for a specific year that are designed to enhance our longer-term performance, while understanding that such strategies may not always similarly benefit short-term results, such as our annual underwriting profit or earnings per share. Such strategies, for example, may involve a reduction in premiums for certain products or customers, or increases in advertising spend, to support growth or enhance retention of current customers. Consequently, these strategies may adversely affect short-term performance or the amount of our variable dividend for a given year, and may result in additional volatility in the price of our common shares or debt securities.  ITEM 1B