ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



Progressive’s business involves various risks and uncertainties, certain of which are discussed in
this section. Management divides these risks into three broad categories in assessing how they may
affect our ability to achieve our business objectives:






     
    •
     
    Operating Risks are those stemming from external or internal events or circumstances
that directly or indirectly may affect our insurance operations.



     

     
    •
     
    Investing Risks are uncertainties relating to the performance and preservation of our
investment portfolios. Unlike most other risks, the actual development of an investment
risk factor (such as interest rates going down or up) may result in either an increase or
decrease in the value of investments we hold.



     

     
    •
     
    Financing Risks generally relate to our ability to obtain capital, when necessary, to
pay or otherwise perform our obligations, including obligations under any debt instruments
issued, and to earn the cost of equity capital.





Although we have organized risks generally according to these categories in the discussion below,
it should be noted that many of the risks may have ramifications in more than one category. For
example, although presented as an Operating Risk below, state regulation of insurance companies may
also affect our investing and financing activities. Similarly, while setting insurance rates,
establishing loss reserves and adjusting claims are properly discussed as Operating Risks, errors
in these disciplines may have an impact on the investing and financing areas as well. The
categories, therefore, should be viewed as a starting point for understanding the significant risks
facing us and not as a limitation on the potential impact of the matters being discussed.


This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in
this report and in the other reports and materials filed by us with the SEC, as well as news
releases and other information publicly disseminated by us from time to time.


Additional
risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may
also adversely affect our business. If any such risks or uncertainties, or any of the following
risks or uncertainties, develop into actual events, this could have a materially adverse effect on
our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. In that case, the market
price of our common shares could decline materially.


I. Operating Risks



We compete in the automobile insurance and other property-casualty markets, which are highly
competitive.



We face vigorous competition from large, well-capitalized national companies and smaller regional
insurers. Other large national and international insurance or financial services companies also
may enter these markets in the future. Many of these companies may have greater financial,
marketing and management resources than we have. In addition, competitors may offer consumers
combinations of auto policies and other insurance products or financial services that we do not
offer. We could be adversely affected by the failure to generate new business, or to retain a
sufficient percentage of our current customers, as a result of competitors offering similar
insurance products at lower prices or offering bundled products or services and by other competitor
initiatives.


In recent years, the highly competitive nature of the automobile insurance industry has been
evidenced, in part, by declining premium rates for many consumers, including our own recent rate
reductions. Among other factors, these price decreases have been driven primarily by decreasing
frequency trends (i.e., less accidents per insurance policy), which have not been fully offset by
increases in severity (i.e., amounts paid per accident). This very competitive environment has in
turn resulted in lower operating income and revenue growth rates for us. We cannot predict whether
these trends will continue, but if they do, our growth rates at a 96 combined ratio may become
pressured.


12




Table of Contents



From time to time, we undertake strategic initiatives to maintain and improve our competitive
position in auto insurance markets. Based on a culture that encourages innovation, these
strategies at times involve significant departures from our, and/or our competitors’, then-current
or historical modes of doing business. As such, our innovations may entail a degree of risk and
may not ultimately achieve anticipated business goals. In addition, these initiatives may be
subject to challenge by regulators or private litigants and may disrupt our relationships with
certain of our customers and producers (i.e., agents and brokers). If we are unable successfully
to develop, plan and implement our strategic initiatives in these competitive, regulatory and legal
environments, or if we are unable to identify effective strategies in the first instance to
maintain or enhance our competitive position, our business could be materially adversely affected.


Similarly, we undertake distinctive advertising campaigns, and other efforts to improve brand
recognition, generate new business and increase the retention of our current customers. If these
campaigns or efforts are unsuccessful or are less effective than those of competitors, our business
could be materially adversely affected. We believe that improving the effectiveness of our
advertising campaigns relative to those of our competitors is particularly important given the
recent increases in advertising and marketing efforts within the automobile insurance market.


The highly competitive nature of the markets in which we compete could also result in the failure
of one or more major competitors. In the event of a failure of a major insurer, we could be
adversely affected, as our company and other insurance companies may be required under
state-mandated plans to absorb the losses of the failed insurer, and we could be faced with an
unexpected surge in new business from the failed insurer’s former policyholders.


Our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, managers and executives, and to
maintain appropriate staffing levels, is critical to our success.



Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, including
executives and other key managers. Our loss of certain key officers and employees or the failure
to attract and develop talented new executives and managers could have a materially adverse effect
on our business.


In addition, we must forecast volume and other factors in changing business environments (for
multiple business units and in many geographic markets) with reasonable accuracy and adjust our
hiring programs and employment levels accordingly. Our failure to recognize the need for such
adjustments, or our failure or inability to react appropriately on a timely basis, could lead
either to over-staffing (which would adversely affect our cost structure) or under-staffing
(impairing our ability to service our ongoing and new business) in one or more business units or
locations. In either such event, our financial results and customer relationships could be
materially adversely affected.


We further believe that our success depends, in large part, on our ability to maintain and improve
the staffing models and employee culture that we have developed over the years. Our ability to do
so may be impaired as a result of litigation against us, legislation or regulations at the state or
federal level or other factors in the employment marketplace. In such events, the productivity of
certain of our workers could be adversely affected, which could lead to an erosion of our operating
performance and margins.


The Progressive Corporation and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex
federal and state laws and regulations.



Progressive’s insurance businesses operate in a highly regulated environment. Our insurance
subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by state insurance departments in all 50
states and the District of Columbia, each of which has a unique and complex set of laws and
regulations. In addition, certain federal laws impose additional requirements on businesses,
including insurers. Our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to comply with these laws and regulations
at reasonable costs, and to obtain necessary regulatory action in a timely manner, is and will
continue to be critical to our success.


Certain states impose restrictions on, or require prior regulatory approval of, various actions by
regulated insurers, which may adversely affect our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to operate,
innovate and obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner. Our compliance efforts are
further complicated by changes in laws or regulations
applicable to insurance companies (such as, in recent years, legislative and regulatory initiatives
concerning the


13




Table of Contents



use of nonpublic consumer information and related privacy issues, the use of credit
scoring in underwriting and efforts to freeze, set or roll back insurance premium rates or limit
the rate of return that an insurance company may earn). Insurance laws and regulations may limit
our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, prevent our
subsidiaries from obtaining timely rate changes to recognize increased or decreased costs, restrict
our subsidiaries’ ability to discontinue unprofitable businesses or exit unprofitable markets or
prevent insurers from terminating policies under certain circumstances. In addition, compliance
with insurance-related laws and regulations often results in increased administrative costs to our
insurance subsidiaries. These costs, in turn, may adversely affect our profitability or our
ability or desire to grow our business in the applicable jurisdictions.


The failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or the alleged failure to so comply, by us
or other companies in the insurance, financial services or related industries, also could result in
actions or investigations by regulators, state attorneys general or other law enforcement
officials. For example, in recent years, several states have included us in document and
information requests relating to investigations into the relationships between insurers and brokers
and agents, allegations of bid rigging by certain brokers and related matters, although we have not
been notified that we are the target of any such investigation. Such actions and investigations,
and any determination that we have not complied with an applicable law or regulation, could
potentially lead to fines and penalties, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation in the
marketplace, and in extreme cases, revocation of a subsidiary’s authority to do business in one or
more jurisdictions. In addition, The Progressive Corporation and its subsidiaries could face
individual and class action lawsuits by its insureds and other parties for alleged violations of
certain of these laws or regulations.


New legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future which could adversely affect our
operations or ability to write business profitably in one or more states. In addition, from time
to time, the United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition
of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary. We are unable to
predict whether any such laws will be enacted and how and to what extent such laws and regulations
would affect our businesses.


State insurance regulation may create risks and uncertainties for Progressive’s insurance
subsidiaries in other ways as well. For further information on these risks and uncertainties, see
the “Insurance Regulation” discussion beginning on page 5 of this report.


Lawsuits challenging our business practices, and those of our competitors and other companies, are
pending and more may be filed in the future.



The Progressive Corporation and/or its subsidiaries are named as defendants in putative class
action and other lawsuits challenging various aspects of the subsidiaries’ business operations, and
such litigation may arise in the future concerning similar or other business practices. These
lawsuits include cases alleging damages as a result of our subsidiaries’ use of after-market parts;
total loss evaluation methodology; use of credit in underwriting and related requirements under the
federal Fair Credit Reporting Act; methods used for evaluating and paying certain bodily injury,
personal injury protection and medical payment claims; other claims handling procedures;
interpretations of the provisions of our insurance policies; and policy implementation and renewal
procedures, among other matters. From time to time, we also may be involved in litigation or other
disputes alleging that our subsidiaries’ business practices or systems violate the patent,
trademark or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Additional litigation may be
filed against us concerning our employment-related practices, medical malpractice and other general
liability causes of action arising from our operations. In addition, lawsuits have been filed, and
other lawsuits may be filed in the future, against our competitors and other businesses, and
although we are not a party to such litigation, the results of those cases may create additional
risks for, and/or impose additional costs and/or limitations on, our subsidiaries’ business
operations.


Lawsuits against us often seek significant monetary damages. Moreover, as courts resolve
individual or class action litigation in insurance or related fields, a new layer of court-imposed
regulation could emerge, resulting in material increases in our costs of doing business.


Litigation is inherently unpredictable. Except to the extent we have established reserves with
respect to particular lawsuits that are currently pending against us, we are unable to predict the
effect, if any, that these pending or
future lawsuits may have on our business, operations, profitability or financial condition. For
further information


14




Table of Contents



on pending litigation, see Note 11 — Litigation, beginning on page App.-A-24 of
the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.


Our success depends on our ability to underwrite risks accurately and to charge adequate rates to
policyholders.



Our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations depend on our ability to underwrite
and set rates accurately for a full spectrum of risks. The role of the pricing function is to
ensure that rates are adequate to generate sufficient premium to pay losses, loss adjustment
expenses and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit.


Pricing involves the acquisition and analysis of historical accident and loss data, and the
projection of future accident trends, loss costs and expenses, for each of our products in multiple
risk tiers and many different markets. As a result, our ability to price accurately is subject to
a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation:






     
    •
     
    the availability of sufficient reliable data,



     

     
    •
     
    uncertainties inherent in estimates and assumptions, generally,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to conduct a complete and accurate analysis of available data,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to timely recognize changes in trend and to predict both the severity and
frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to predict changes in certain operating expenses with reasonable certainty,



     

     
    •
     
    the development, selection and application of appropriate rating formulae or other
pricing methodologies,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to innovate with new pricing strategies, and the success of those
innovations,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to predict policyholder retention accurately,



     

     
    •
     
    unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action,



     

     
    •
     
    ongoing changes in our claim settlement practices,



     

     
    •
     
    changing driving patterns,



     

     
    •
     
    unexpected changes in the medical sector of the economy, including medical costs, and



     

     
    •
     
    unanticipated changes in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices.





The realization of such risks may result in our pricing being based on stale, inadequate or
inaccurate data or inappropriate analyses, assumptions or methodologies, and may cause us to
estimate incorrectly future changes in the frequency or severity of claims. As a result, we could
underprice risks, which would negatively affect our margins, or we could overprice risks, which
could reduce our volume and competitiveness. In either event, our operating results, financial
condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, underpricing
insurance policies over time could erode the capital position of one or more of our insurance
subsidiaries, constraining our ability to write new business.


Our growth trends have been and could continue to be impacted by reduced accident frequency trends.



Auto accident frequency has steadily declined since 2000. Although not conclusive, several
contributors to reduced frequency include improved vehicle safety, road design and driver education
as well as the increased price of gasoline which, along with other factors, may affect consumers’
driving habits. These frequency trends have led us, and most competitors, to lower our insurance
premiums, which in turn has adversely impacted our recent premium growth rates. We are not able to
predict whether frequency will continue to decline, stabilize or return to increasing trends more
consistent with the periods prior to 2000. If the recent trend continues, however, declining auto
accident frequency, if not offset by an increase in severity, could continue to pressure premium
growth rates and potentially lead to a long-term reduction in the amount of premiums written in the
auto insurance industry, thus directly affecting our ability to grow our auto insurance business
revenues.


Our success depends on our ability to establish accurate loss reserves and to adjust claims
accurately.



Our financial statements include loss reserves, which represent our best estimate of the amounts
that the subsidiaries will ultimately pay on claims that have been incurred, and the related costs
of adjusting those claims, as of the date of the financial statements. There is inherent
uncertainty in the process of establishing property and casualty loss reserves, which can arise
from a number of factors, including:






     
    •
     
    the availability of sufficient reliable data,



     

     
    •
     
    the difficulty in predicting the rate and direction of changes in frequency and severity
trends in multiple markets,




15




Table of Contents






     
    •
     
    unexpected changes in medical and auto repair costs,



     

     
    •
     
    unanticipated changes in governing statutes and regulations,



     

     
    •
     
    new or changing interpretations of insurance policy provisions by courts,



     

     
    •
     
    inconsistent decisions in lawsuits regarding coverage and changing theories of
liability,



     

     
    •
     
    ongoing changes in our claim settlement practices,



     

     
    •
     
    the accuracy of our estimates of the frequency or severity of claims that have been
incurred but not reported as of the date of the financial statements,



     

     
    •
     
    the accuracy and adequacy of actuarial techniques and databases used in estimating loss
reserves, and



     

     
    •
     
    the accuracy of estimates of total loss and loss adjustment expenses as determined by
our employees for different categories of claims.





As a result of these and other risks and uncertainties, the ultimate paid losses and loss
adjustment expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from point-in-time estimates of such losses
and expenses, as reflected in the loss reserves included in our financial statements.
Consequently, ultimate losses paid could materially exceed loss reserves and have a materially
adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. Further information
on our loss reserves can be found in the “Liability for Property-Casualty Losses and Loss
Adjustment Expenses” discussion beginning on page 8 of this report, as well as our “Report on Loss
Reserving Practices,” which was filed with the SEC on Form 8-K on June 28, 2007.


Likewise, we must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under our policies. Many
factors can affect our ability to pay claims accurately, including the training, experience and
skill of our claims representatives, the claims organization’s culture and the effectiveness of our
management, our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures, technologies and
systems to support our claims functions and the success of our concierge-level claims services
program. Our failure to pay claims accurately could result in unanticipated costs to us, lead to
material litigation, undermine customer goodwill and our reputation in the marketplace and impair
our brand image and, as a result, materially adversely affect our financial results, prospects and
liquidity.


Our financial performance may be materially adversely affected by severe weather conditions or
other catastrophic losses.



Catastrophes can be caused by natural events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms,
earthquakes, hailstorms, severe winter weather and fires, or other events, such as explosions,
terrorist attacks, riots, hazardous material releases, medical epidemics, utility outages or
interruptions of communications facilities. The extent of insured losses from a catastrophe is a
function of both our total net insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the nature
and severity of the event. In addition, our business could be further impaired if a significant
portion of our business or systems were shut down by, or if we were unable to gain access to
certain of our facilities as a result of, such an event. Most of our past catastrophe-related
claims have resulted from severe storms, as evidenced recently by the active hurricane seasons in
2004 and 2005. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. When they
occur with enough severity, our financial performance, cash flows and results of operations could
be materially adversely affected.


Our business depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems and business
functions, including our information technology and other business systems.



Our business is highly dependent upon our employees’ ability to perform, in an efficient and
uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as Internet support and 24-hour call
centers, processing new and renewal business, and processing and paying claims. A shut-down of, or
inability to access, one or more of our facilities, a power outage, or a failure of one or more of
our information technology, telecommunications or other systems for any reason, including failures
that might occur as existing systems are replaced or upgraded, could significantly impair our
ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In addition, because our information
technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we
could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party
system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business
interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to
write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely
manner or perform other necessary business functions. This could result in a materially adverse
effect on our business results, prospects and liquidity.


16




Table of Contents



A security breach of our computer systems could also interrupt or damage our operations, subject us
to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated, and significantly damage our
reputation. Despite the implementation of security measures, including hiring an independent firm
to perform intrusion vulnerability testing of our computer systems, these systems may be vulnerable
to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties
or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of security could deter people from entering into
transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to our systems, which could have a
material, adverse effect on our business.


We rely heavily on credit card acceptance for premium payment and settlement of claims deductibles.
Data security standards for merchants and service providers that accept credit card payments are
prescribed by the PCI Security Standards Council (PCI), an independent body formed by an
association of the major credit card vendors. These standards are intended to promote a common set
of data security measures to help ensure the safe handling of sensitive information by companies
accepting credit card payments. At year end 2007, an independent organization recognized by PCI
for such purposes certified Progressive as being in compliance with the current PCI standards. The
PCI data security standards, however, will likely evolve over time to address emerging payment
security risks and other issues, requiring additional compliance efforts by us and recertification
of our processes.  Our
intention is to maintain compliance with PCI’s data security
standards. The failure to do so could result in contractual fines or
disruption of our ability to receive credit card payments.


II. Investing Risks


The performance of our fixed-income and equity investment portfolios is subject to investment
risks.



Our fixed-income portfolio is subject to a number of risks, including:






    •
     
    Interest rate risk — the risk of adverse changes in the value of fixed-income
securities as a result of increases in the market interest rates, which is the most
significant risk to the fixed-income portfolio.



     

    •
     
    Credit risk — the risk that the value of certain investments may become impaired
due to the deterioration in financial condition of one or more issuers of those instruments
and, ultimately, the risk of permanent loss in the event of default by an issuer.



     

    •
     
    Concentration risk — the risk that the portfolio may be too heavily concentrated
in the securities of one or more issuers, sectors or industries, which could result in a
significant decrease in the value of the portfolio in the event of a deterioration of the
financial condition, performance or outlook of those issuers, sectors or industries.



     

    •
     
    Prepayment or extension risk (applicable to certain securities in the portfolio,
such as residential mortgage-backed securities) — the risk that, as interest rates change,
the principal of such securities may be repaid earlier than anticipated, adversely affecting
the value of or income from such securities and the portfolio.





The common equity portfolio, which is managed to track the Russell 1000 index, is subject to
general movements in the values of equity markets and to the changes in the prices of the
securities we hold. Equity markets and individual securities may be subject to periods of high
volatility. A decline in the aggregate value of the equities that make up the index would be
expected to result in a commensurate decline in the value of our common equity portfolio.


In addition, both the fixed-income and the common equity portfolios are subject to risks inherent
in the nation’s and world’s capital markets. The functioning of those markets, the values of the
investments we hold and our ability to liquidate investments on favorable terms on short notice may
be adversely affected if those markets are disrupted or otherwise affected by local, national or
international events, such as power outages, system failures, wars or terrorist attacks, recessions
or depressions, a significant change in inflation expectations, a significant devaluation of
governmental or private sector credit, currencies or financial markets, or other factors or events.


17




Table of Contents



If the fixed-income or equity portfolios, or both, were to be impaired by market, sector or
issuer-specific conditions to a substantial degree, our liquidity, financial position and financial
results could be materially adversely affected. Under these circumstances, our income from these
investments could be materially reduced, and declines in the value of certain securities could
further reduce our reported earnings and capital levels. A decrease in value of an insurance
company’s investment portfolio could also put the subsidiary at risk of failing to satisfy
regulatory minimum capital requirements. If we, at that time, are unable to supplement the
subsidiary’s capital from The Progressive Corporation’s other assets or by issuing debt or equity
securities on acceptable terms, our business could be materially adversely affected.


See
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations, beginning on page
App.-A-30 of the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K, for additional
discussion on current market risk associated with our investment portfolio.


III. Financing Risks



Our insurance subsidiaries may be limited in the amount of dividends that they can pay to the
holding company, which in turn may limit the holding company’s ability to pay dividends to
shareholders, repay indebtedness or make capital contributions to its other subsidiaries or
affiliate.



The Progressive Corporation is a holding company with no business operations of its own.
Consequently, if its subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or make other distributions to The
Progressive Corporation, or are able to pay only limited amounts, Progressive may be unable to pay
dividends to shareholders, make payments on its indebtedness, meet its other obligations,
repurchase its common shares, or make capital contributions to or otherwise fund its subsidiaries
or affiliate. Each insurance subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to the holding company may be
limited by one or more of the following factors:







    •
     
    State insurance regulatory authorities require insurance companies to maintain specified
minimum levels of statutory capital and surplus.



     


    •
     
    State regulations restrict the amounts available for distribution based on either net
income or surplus availability of the insurance company.



     


    •
     
    Competitive pressures require our insurance subsidiaries to maintain financial strength
ratings.



     


    •
     
    In certain jurisdictions, prior approval must be obtained from state regulatory authorities
for the insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to affiliated
entities, including the holding company.





Further information on state insurance laws and regulations which may limit the ability of our
insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends can be found in Item 5(c), “Dividends,” beginning on page
21 of this report.


The Progressive Corporation’s annual dividend policy will result in a variable payment to
shareholders each year, and the dividend program may ultimately be changed.



We have previously announced our intention to pay a dividend to shareholders on an annual basis
under a formula that multiplies our annual after-tax underwriting income by a percentage factor (set
by the Board of Directors for each of 2007 and 2008 at 20%) and then
by the Gainshare factor
(determined under our employee Gainsharing (cash bonus) plans based on the operating performance of
our principal insurance businesses). To the extent our comprehensive income, which includes net
investment income and realized and unrealized gains and losses, is less than after-tax underwriting
income, no dividend will be payable. For 2007, this calculation resulted in a dividend payment of
$.145 per share, which was paid on January 31, 2008.


Because the dividend calculation is performance-based, the amount (if any) to be paid in any
particular year may not be subject to accurate prediction and will likely vary, perhaps
significantly, from the amounts paid in the preceding year(s). As a result, the amount paid may be
inconsistent with some shareholders’ expectations. In addition, although we have announced our
intent to repeat the annual dividend in 2008 (to be paid early in 2009), the dividend will not be
declared by the Board until December 2008, and the Board could decide to alter our policy or not to
pay the annual dividend for 2008 or future years. Such an action by the Board could result from,
among other reasons, changes in the insurance marketplace, changes in our performance or capital
needs, changes in federal income tax laws, or disruptions of national or international capital
markets or other events affecting our liquidity or financial position as described above under
“Investing Risks.” Any such change could adversely affect investors’ perceptions of the company
and the value of, or the total return of an investment in, our stock.


18




Table of Contents



Our financial condition may be adversely affected if one or more parties with which we enter into
significant contracts becomes insolvent or experiences other financial hardship.



Our business is dependent on the performance by third parties of their responsibilities under
various contractual relationships. These include, for example, contracts for the acquisitions of
goods and services (such as telecommunications and information technology equipment and support,
and other services that are integral to our operations), joint marketing arrangements and
arrangements for transferring certain of our risks (including reinsurance used by us in connection
with certain of our insurance products and our corporate insurance policies). If one or more of
these parties were to default on the performance of their obligations under their respective
contracts or determine to abandon or terminate support for a system, product or service that is
significant to our business, we could suffer significant financial losses and operational problems,
which could in turn adversely affect our financial performance, cash flows or results of operations
and damage to our reputation.


If we fail to maintain sufficient capital to support our business, our financial condition and our
ability to grow could be adversely affected.



We intend to maintain capital levels as necessary to pay all claims and other business expenses, to
support the growth of our insurance businesses, and to provide for additional protection against
possible large, unexpected losses. The level of capital that is retained at any time is determined
by management based, in part, on current and anticipated business results and growth prospects, and
estimates of the levels of capital needed to protect us against unexpected events within a
confidence level prescribed by management. The amount of capital that we maintain is driven by our
assessment of potential exposures and correlations to our underwriting, investing and operating
risks, including those discussed in these Risk Factors. The estimates for unexpected events are
internally produced and are the result of extensive analysis and modeling of the types of risks
that we are likely to face. While our techniques for our capital needs are continually enhanced,
our ability to predict accurately the nature, size and scope of unexpected events is inherently
uncertain. If our capital level turns out to be lower than the amount needed at a given time, our
financial condition could be materially adversely affected, our ability to grow the insurance
business could be constrained until additional sources of capital are found, and our ability to
gain access to debt or equity markets at favorable rates could be adversely impacted.


Our access to capital markets, our financing arrangements and our business operations are dependent
on favorable evaluations and ratings by credit and other rating agencies.



Our credit and financial strength is evaluated and rated by various rating agencies, such as
Standard & Poor’s (AA+), Moody’s Investors Service (Aa2) and A.M. Best (A+, with one company rated
A). Progressive and its insurance subsidiaries currently enjoy favorable, stable ratings.
Downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets
and/or lead to increased borrowing costs in the future (although the interest rates we pay on our
current indebtedness would not be affected). Perceptions of our company by investors, producers,
other businesses and consumers could also be significantly impaired. Downgrades in the ratings of
our insurance subsidiaries could likewise negatively impact our operations, potentially resulting
in lower or negative premium growth. In either event, our financial performance could be
materially adversely affected.


We do not manage to short-term earnings expectations; our goal is to maximize the long-term value
of the enterprise, which at times may adversely affect short-term results.



We believe that shareholder value will be increased in the long run if we meet or exceed the
financial goals and policies that we establish each year. We do not manage our business to maximize
short-term stock performance or the amount of the dividend paid under our annual variable dividend
policy. We also do not provide earnings estimates to the market and do not comment on earnings
estimates by analysts. As a result, our reported results for a particular period may vary, perhaps
significantly, from investors’ expectations, which could result in significant volatility in our
stock price.


In addition, due to our focus on the long-term value of the enterprise, we may undertake business
strategies and establish related financial goals for a specific year that are designed to enhance
our longer-term position, while understanding that such strategies may not always similarly benefit
short-term performance, such as our annual underwriting profit or earnings per share. Such
strategies, for example, may involve a reduction in premiums for certain products or customers to
support growth or enhance retention of current customers. Consequently, these strategies may
adversely affect short-term performance and may result in additional volatility in our stock price.


19




Table of Contents





ITEM 1B