ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



     Discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should
be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and
uncertainties to which we are, or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with
other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business,
financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and
adverse manner.


Downward changes in general economic, real estate construction or other business conditions could
adversely affect our business or our financial results.


     The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other
factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of
financing and interest rate levels. Adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in
the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or
result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of
home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result
in a decrease in our revenues and earnings.


The homebuilding industry has not experienced an economic down cycle in a number of years, which
may have resulted in an overvaluation of land and new homes.


     Although the homebuilding business historically has been cyclical, it has not undergone an
economic down cycle in a number of years. Further, in recent years, land and home prices rose
significantly in many of our markets. This has led some people to assert that the prices of land,
new homes and the stock prices of homebuilding companies may be inflated and may decline if the
demand for land and new homes weakens. A decline in the prices for land and new homes could
adversely affect both our revenues and margins. A decline in our stock price could make raising
capital through stock issuances more difficult and expensive.


Future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or increases in the
effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and
adversely affect our business or our financial results.


     Most of our customers finance their home purchases through our mortgage bank. Interest rates
have been at historical lows for several years. Many homebuyers have also chosen adjustable rate,
interest only or mortgages that involve initial lower monthly payments. As a result, new homes
have been more affordable. Increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage
financing, however, could reduce the market for new homes. Potential homebuyers may be less
willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing that exposes
them to interest rate changes. Lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or
adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. Even if potential customers do not need
financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to
sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. These factors could adversely
affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our
financial services business. Our financial services business could be impacted to the extent we
are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the
various hedging strategies we employ.


     In addition, we believe that the availability of FHA and VA mortgage financing is an important
factor in marketing some of our homes. We also believe that the liquidity provided by Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac to the mortgage industry is important to the housing market. However, the federal
government has recently sought to reduce the size of the home-loan portfolios and operations of
these two government-sponsored enterprises. Any limitations or restrictions on the availability of
the financing or on the liquidity by them could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing
and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans.


Our future growth may require additional capital, which may not be available.



     Our operations require significant amounts of cash. We may be required to seek additional
capital, whether from sales of equity or debt or additional bank borrowings, for the future growth
and development of our business. We can give no assurance as to the availability of such
additional capital or, if available, whether it would be on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, the
indentures for most of our outstanding public debt and the covenants of our revolving credit
facility contain provisions that may restrict the debt we may incur in the future. If we are not
successful in obtaining sufficient capital, it could reduce our sales and may adversely affect our
future growth and financial results.


9




Table of Contents



Competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability.



     The housing industry in the United States is highly competitive. We compete primarily on the
basis of price, reputation, design, location and quality of our homes. We compete in each of our
markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. This competition with other
homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver, or cause us to accept reduced margins in
order to maintain sales volume.


     We also compete with resales of existing used or foreclosed homes, housing speculators and
available rental housing. Increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental
market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase
cancellations of sales contracts in backlog.


Our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at
reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria.


     The homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. The availability of
finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our
internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability
in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation
in land prices, and zoning, allowable housing density and other regulatory requirements. Should
suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell
could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could
adversely impact our results of operations.


     Our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential
building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. Over the past few years, we
have experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in
many of our markets. As competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is
developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of
suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. Any land shortages or any decrease in the supply
of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result
in increased land costs. We may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land
costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins.


Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials
could increase costs and delay deliveries.


     The homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. Increased
costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building
materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. We generally are
unable to pass on increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into
sale contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the
contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. Sustained
increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for
materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, thereby decreasing
our margins.


Government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and
homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our
business or financial results.


     Our operations are subject to building, environmental and other regulations of various
federal, state, and local governing authorities. For our homes to qualify for FHA or VA mortgages,
we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material and construction requirements of those
agencies. Our compliance with federal, state, and local laws relating to protection of the
environment has had, to date, no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
position. More stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and
developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance.


     New housing developments may be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and
other public improvements. These can cause an increase in the effective prices for our homes. In
addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities, as recently
experienced in response to reduced federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of
potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new homes.


10




Table of Contents



Government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and
homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our
business or financial results. (continued)


     We also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning
protection of health, safety and the environment. The impact of environmental laws varies
depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in
areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. These
matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other
costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in
environmentally sensitive regions or areas.


     Our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws
and regulations. These include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs
and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements,
prohibitions against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures. They may also subject
our operations to examination by applicable agencies. These may limit our ability to provide
mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes.


Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that
can be significant.


     As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in
the ordinary course of business. We record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based
on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with
the types of homes built. We have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general
liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensations and other business insurance.
These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to
certain self-insured retentions, deductibles, and other coverage limits. Through our captive
insurance subsidiaries, we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under
these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical
claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Because of the
uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage,
our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and
construction defect claims in the future. Contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we
may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be
covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered
by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently
limited and costly. We have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage
limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. There can be no
assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly.


Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease
demand for new homes in affected areas.


     Our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters
and severe weather. The occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new
home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials and
negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. Furthermore, if our insurance does
not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings,
liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected.


Inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines.


     Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and
labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory
margins. However, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative
impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to
keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease.


Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic and international
instability could have an adverse effect on our operations.


     A future terrorist attack against the United States could cause a sharp decrease in the number
of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts.
Accordingly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the
United States, or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our
business.


11




Table of Contents






ITEM 1B