Item 1A of this report. We caution you not to place undue
    reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our
    analysis only and speak as of the date of this report or as of
    the dates indicated in the statements. All of our
    forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are
    qualified in their entirety by this statement. We assume no
    obligation to update or supplement forward-looking
    statements.



    
    3



Table of Contents





    PART I







 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business










 



    General


 


    AMB Property Corporation, a Maryland corporation, acquires,
    develops and operates industrial properties in key distribution
    markets tied to global trade in the Americas, Europe and Asia.
    We use the terms “industrial properties” or
    “industrial buildings” to describe various types of
    industrial properties in our portfolio and use these terms
    interchangeably with the following: logistics facilities,
    centers or warehouses; distribution facilities, centers or
    warehouses; High Throughput
    Distribution®
    (HTD®)
    facilities; or any combination of these terms. We use the term
    “owned and managed” to describe assets in which we
    have at least a 10% ownership interest, for which we are the
    property or asset manager, and which we intend to hold for the
    long-term.


 


    We commenced operations as a fully-integrated real estate
    company effective with the completion of our initial public
    offering on November 26, 1997. Our strategy focuses on
    providing industrial distribution warehouse space to customers
    who value the efficient movement of goods through the global
    supply chain, primarily in the world’s busiest distribution
    markets: large, supply-constrained infill locations with dense
    populations and proximity to airports, seaports and major
    highway systems. As of December 31, 2007, we owned, or had
    investments in, on a consolidated basis or through
    unconsolidated co-investment ventures, properties and
    development projects expected to total approximately
    147.7 million square feet (13.7 million square meters)
    in 45 markets within 14 countries. Additionally, as of
    December 31, 2007, we managed, but did not have a
    significant ownership interest in, industrial and other
    properties totaling approximately 1.5 million rentable
    square feet.


 


    We operate our business primarily through our subsidiary, AMB
    Property, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, which we refer
    to as the “operating partnership”. As of
    December 31, 2007, we owned an approximate 96.1% general
    partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding
    preferred units. As the sole general partner of the operating
    partnership, we have the full, exclusive and complete
    responsibility for and discretion in its
    day-to-day
    management and control.


 


    Our investment strategy generally targets customers whose
    businesses are tied to global trade, which, according to the
    World Bank, has grown more than three times the world gross
    domestic product growth rate over the last 30 years. To
    serve the facility needs of these customers, we seek to invest
    in major global distribution markets and transportation hubs
    that, generally, are tied to global trade.


 


    Our strategy is to be a leading provider of industrial
    properties in supply-constrained submarkets of our target
    markets. These infill submarkets are generally characterized by
    large population densities and typically offer substantial
    consumer concentrations, proximity to large clusters of
    distribution-facility users and significant labor pools, and are
    generally located near key international passenger and cargo
    airports, seaports and major highway systems. When measured by
    annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis, the
    substantial majority of our portfolio of industrial properties
    is located in our target markets, and much of this is in infill
    submarkets within our target markets. Infill locations are
    characterized by supply constraints on the availability of land
    for competing projects as well as physical, political or
    economic barriers to new development.


 


    Further, in many of our target markets, we focus on
    HTD®
    facilities, which are buildings designed to facilitate the rapid
    distribution of our customers’ products rather than the
    storage of goods. Our investment focus on
    HTD®
    assets is based on what we think to be a global trend toward
    lower inventory levels and expedited supply chains.
    HTD®
    facilities generally have a variety of physical characteristics
    that allow for the rapid transport of goods from
    point-to-point.
    These physical characteristics could include numerous dock
    doors, shallower building depths, fewer columns, large truck
    courts and more space for trailer parking. We think these
    building characteristics represent an important success factor
    for customers such as air express, logistics and freight
    forwarding companies that have time-sensitive needs, and that
    these facilities function best when located in convenient
    proximity to transportation infrastructure, such as major
    airports and seaports.



    
    4



Table of Contents




    Of approximately 147.7 million square feet as of
    December 31, 2007:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    on an owned and managed basis, which include investments held on
    a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated co-investment
    ventures, we owned or partially owned approximately
    118.2 million square feet (principally warehouse
    distribution buildings) that were 96.0% leased;




 



     
        • 

    
    on an owned and managed basis, which include investments held on
    a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated co-investment
    ventures, we had investments in 56 industrial development
    projects, which are expected to total approximately
    17.8 million square feet upon completion;




 



     
        • 

    
    on a consolidated basis, we owned 12 development projects,
    totaling approximately 4.2 million square feet, which are
    available for sale or contribution;




 



     
        • 

    
    through non-managed unconsolidated co-investment ventures, we
    had investments in 46 industrial operating properties, totaling
    approximately 7.4 million square feet; and




 



     
        • 

    
    we held approximately 0.1 million square feet, which is the
    location of our global headquarters.





 


    Our global headquarters are located at Pier 1, Bay 1,
    San Francisco, California 94111; our telephone number is
    (415) 394-9000.
    We maintain other office locations in Amsterdam, Atlanta,
    Baltimore, Beijing, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Delhi, Frankfurt,
    Los Angeles, Menlo Park, Nagoya, Narita, New Jersey, New York,
    Osaka, Paris, Seoul, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Singapore, Tokyo and
    Vancouver. As of December 31, 2007, we employed 513
    individuals: 185 in our San Francisco headquarters, 57 in
    our Boston office, 49 in our Tokyo office, 44 in our Amsterdam
    office and the remainder in our other offices. Our website
    address is www.amb.com. Our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are available on our website free of charge as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and
    Exchange Commission, or SEC. The public may read and copy these
    materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may
    obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
    by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains a website that contains such reports, proxy
    and information statements and other information, and the
    Internet address is
    http://www.sec.gov.
    Our Corporate Governance Principles and Code of Business Conduct
    are also posted on our website. Information contained on our
    website is not and should not be deemed a part of this annual
    report or any other report or filing filed with the SEC.







 



    NEW YORK
    STOCK EXCHANGE CERTIFICATION


 


    We submitted our 2007 annual Section 12(a) Chief Executive
    Officer certification with the New York Stock Exchange. The
    certification was not qualified in any respect. Additionally, we
    filed with the SEC as exhibits to this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for the year ended December 31, 2007, the Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications required
    under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
    furnished as exhibits to this Annual Report the Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications required
    under Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


 


    Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
    “AMB,” the “Company,” “we,”
    “us” and “our” refer to AMB Property
    Corporation, AMB Property, L.P. and their other controlled
    subsidiaries, and the references to AMB Property Corporation
    include AMB Property, L.P. and their controlled subsidiaries. We
    refer to AMB Property, L.P. as the “operating
    partnership.” The following marks are our registered
    trademarks:
    AMB®;
    High Throughput
    Distribution®
    (HTD®);
    and Strategic Alliance
    Programs®.







 



    Operating
    Strategy


 


    We base our operating strategy on a variety of operational and
    service offerings, including in-house acquisitions, development,
    redevelopment, value-added conversion, asset management,
    property management, leasing, finance, accounting and market
    research. Our strategy is to leverage our expertise across a
    large customer base, and complement our internal management
    resources with long-standing relationships with entrepreneurial
    real estate management and development firms in certain of our
    target markets.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    We believe that real estate is fundamentally a local business
    and best operated by local teams in each market. We manage our
    portfolio of properties generally through direct property
    management performed by our own employees. Additionally, within
    our flexible operating model, we may from time to time establish
    relationships with third-party real estate management firms,
    brokers and developers that provide some property-level
    administrative and management services under our direction. We
    intend to continue to increase utilization of internal
    management resources in target markets to achieve operating
    efficiencies and expose our customers to the broadening array of
    AMB service offerings, including access to multiple locations
    worldwide and
    build-to-suit
    developments. We actively manage our portfolio, whether directly
    or with an alliance partner, by establishing leasing strategies,
    negotiating lease terms, pricing, and level and timing of
    property improvements.


 








    Growth
    Strategies


 



    Growth
    through Operations


 


    We seek to generate long-term internal growth through rent
    increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space,
    striving to maintain a high occupancy rate at our properties and
    to control expenses by capitalizing on the economies of scale
    inherent in owning, operating and growing a large, global
    portfolio. During 2007, rent on renewed and re-leased space in
    our operating portfolio increased 4.9%, on an owned and managed
    basis. This amount excludes expense reimbursements, rental
    abatements, percentage rents and straight-line rents. During
    2007, cash-basis same store net operating income, including
    lease termination fees, increased by 5.1%, on an owned and
    managed basis, and 5.5% excluding lease termination fees. We
    believe it is important to view real estate as a long-term
    investment, however, our past results are not necessarily an
    indication of our future performance. See Part II,
    Item 7: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Supplemental Earnings Measures” for a discussion of
    cash-basis same store net operating income and a reconciliation
    of cash-basis same store net operating income and net income and
    Part IV, Item 15: Note 15 of the “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” for detailed segment
    information, including revenue attributable to each segment,
    gross investment in each segment and total assets.


 



    Growth
    through Development, Redevelopment and Value-Added
    Conversions


 


    We think that the development, redevelopment and expansion of
    well-located, high-quality industrial properties generally
    provide us with attractive investment opportunities at higher
    rates of return than may be obtained from the purchase of
    existing properties. Through the deployment of our in-house
    development and redevelopment expertise, we seek to create value
    both through new construction and the acquisition and management
    of redevelopment opportunities. Additionally, we believe that
    our historical focus on infill locations creates a unique
    opportunity to enhance stockholder value through the select
    conversion of industrial properties to higher and better uses,
    within our value-added conversion business. Value-added
    conversion projects generally involve a significant enhancement
    or a change in use of the property from industrial distribution
    warehouse to a higher and better use, such as office, retail or
    residential. New developments, redevelopments and value-added
    conversions require significant management attention, and
    development and redevelopment require significant capital
    investment, to maximize their returns. Completed development and
    redevelopment properties are generally contributed to our
    co-investment ventures and held in our owned and managed
    portfolio or sold to third parties. Value-added conversion
    properties are generally sold to third parties at some point in
    the re-entitlement/conversion process, thus recognizing the
    enhanced value of the underlying land that supports the
    property’s repurposed use. We think our global market
    presence and expertise will enable us to continue to generate
    and capitalize on a diverse range of development opportunities.


 


    The multidisciplinary backgrounds of our employees should
    provide us with the skills and experience to capitalize on
    strategic renovation, expansion and development opportunities.
    Many of our employees have specific experience in real estate
    development, both with us and with local, national or
    international development firms. Over the past six years, we
    have significantly expanded our development staff. We pursue
    development projects directly and in co-investment ventures,
    providing us with the flexibility to pursue development projects
    independently or in partnerships, depending on market
    conditions, submarkets or building sites.


 



    Growth
    through Acquisitions and Capital Redeployment


 


    Our acquisition experience and our network of property
    management, leasing and acquisition resources should continue to
    provide opportunities for growth. In addition to our internal
    resources, we have long-term relationships



    
    6



Table of Contents




    with leasing and investment sales brokers, as well as
    third-party local property management firms, which may give us
    access to additional acquisition opportunities because such
    managers frequently market properties on behalf of sellers. In
    addition, we seek to redeploy capital from non-strategic assets
    into properties that better fit our current investment focus.
    Since 2002, we have sold approximately $2 billion of
    operating properties, recognizing a gain of approximately
    $264 million, in an effort to exit non-target markets and
    dispose of assets that no longer fit our investment criteria.


 


    We are generally engaged in various stages of negotiations for a
    number of acquisitions and other transactions, some of which may
    be significant, that may include, but are not limited to,
    individual properties, large multi-property portfolios or
    property owning or real estate-related entities. We cannot
    assure you that we will consummate any of these transactions.
    Such transactions, if we consummate them, may be material
    individually or in the aggregate. Sources of capital for
    acquisitions may include retained cash flow from operations,
    borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, other forms of
    secured or unsecured debt financing, issuances of debt or
    preferred or common equity securities by us or the operating
    partnership (including issuances of units in the operating
    partnership or its subsidiaries), proceeds from divestitures of
    properties, assumption of debt related to the acquired
    properties and private capital from our co-investment partners.
    See Part II, Item 7: “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Summary of Key Transactions in 2007.”


 



    Growth
    through Global Expansion


 


    Our long-term capital allocation goal is to have approximately
    50% of our owned and managed operating portfolio invested in
    markets outside the United States based on annualized base rent.
    As of December 31, 2007, operating properties in our
    markets outside the United States comprised 23.8% of our owned
    and managed operating portfolio and 4.5% of our consolidated
    operating portfolio based on annualized base rent. In addition
    to the United States, we include Canada and Mexico as target
    countries in the Americas. In Europe, our target countries
    currently are Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands,
    Spain and the United Kingdom. In Asia, our target countries
    currently are China, India, Japan, Singapore and South Korea. We
    expect to add additional target countries outside the United
    States in the future, including Brazil and countries in
    Central/Eastern Europe.


 


    Expansion into target markets outside the United States
    represents a natural extension of our strategy to invest in
    industrial property markets with high population densities,
    close proximity to large customer clusters and available labor
    pools, and major distribution centers serving global trade. Our
    international expansion strategy mirrors our focus in the United
    States on supply-constrained submarkets with political, economic
    or physical constraints to new development. Our international
    investments extend our offering of
    HTD®
    facilities for customers who value
    speed-to-market
    over storage. Specifically, we are focused on customers whose
    businesses are derived from global trade. In addition, our
    investments target major consumer distribution markets and
    customers. We think that our established customer relationships,
    our contacts in the air cargo, shipping and logistics
    industries, our underwriting of markets and investments, our
    in-house expertise and our strategic alliances with
    knowledgeable developers and managers will assist us in
    competing internationally. For a discussion of the amount of our
    revenues attributable to the United States and international
    markets, please see Part VI, Item 15: Note 15 of
    the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”


 



    Growth
    through Co-Investments


 


    We co-invest in properties with private capital investors
    through partnerships, limited liability companies or
    co-investment ventures. Our co-investment ventures are managed
    by our private capital group and typically operate under the
    same investment strategy that we apply to our other operations.
    Generally, we will own a
    15-50%
    interest in our co-investment ventures. We expect our
    co-investment program will continue to serve as a source of
    capital for acquisitions and developments; however, we cannot
    assure you that it will continue to do so. In addition, our
    co-investment ventures typically allow us to earn acquisition
    and development fees, asset management fees or priority
    distributions, as well as promoted interests or incentive
    distributions based on the performance of the co-investment
    ventures. As of December 31, 2007, we owned approximately
    83.4 million square feet of our properties (56.5% of the
    total operating and development portfolio) through our
    consolidated and unconsolidated co-investment ventures.



    
    7



Table of Contents








 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    BUSINESS
    RISKS


 


    Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse
    consequences to us. These risks include, among others:







 



    General
    Real Estate Industry Risks


 



    Our
    performance and value are subject to general economic conditions
    and risks associated with our real estate assets.


 


    The investment returns available from equity investments in real
    estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital
    appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the
    expenses incurred in connection with the properties. If our
    properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating
    expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then
    our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders could be
    adversely affected. In addition, there are significant
    expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such
    as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs)
    that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the
    income from the property. Income from, and the value of, our
    properties may be adversely affected by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in the general economic climate, including rising
    inflation;




 



     
        • 

    
    local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand
    for industrial space;




 



     
        • 

    
    the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition from other properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased operating costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased cost of compliance with regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the potential for liability under applicable laws (including
    changes in tax laws); and




 



     
        • 

    
    disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political,
    regulatory or other factors, including terrorism.





 


    In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the
    United States and in other countries, rising interest rates or
    declining demand for real estate, or public perception that any
    of these events may occur, would result in a general decrease in
    rents, an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases
    or greater difficulty in financing our acquisition and
    development activities, which would adversely affect our
    financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist
    attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could
    reduce the demand for and the value of our properties. To the
    extent that future attacks impact our customers, their
    businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including
    their ability to continue to honor their existing leases.


 


    Our properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial
    real estate sector. As a result of this concentration, we would
    feel the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more
    acutely than if our portfolio included other property types.


 



    We may
    be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases
    expire.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, on an owned and managed basis,
    leases on a total of 13.2% of our industrial properties (based
    on annualized base rent) will expire on or prior to
    December 31, 2008. We derive most of our income from rent
    received from our customers. Accordingly, our financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to
    pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be
    adversely affected if we are unable to promptly relet or renew
    these expiring leases or if the rental rates upon renewal or
    reletting are significantly lower than expected. If a customer
    experiences a downturn in its business or other type of
    financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental
    payments or renew its lease. Further, our ability to rent space



    
    8



Table of Contents




    and the rents that we can charge are impacted, not only by
    customer demand, but by the number of other properties we have
    to compete with to appeal to customers.


 



    Actions
    by our competitors may decrease or prevent increases of the
    occupancy and rental rates of our properties.


 


    We compete with other developers, owners and operators of real
    estate, some of which own properties similar to ours in the same
    submarkets in which our properties are located. If our
    competitors offer space at rental rates below current market
    rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our
    customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be
    pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently
    charge in order to retain customers when our customers’
    leases expire. As a result, our financial condition, cash flow,
    cash available for distribution, trading price of our common
    stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could
    be materially adversely affected.


 



    Real
    estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult
    for us to respond promptly to changing conditions.


 


    Real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of
    assets. Further, the Internal Revenue Code regulates the number
    of properties that we, as a real estate investment trust, can
    dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of
    improvements that we make to the properties. In addition, a
    portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain
    of our subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for
    limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. The
    contribution agreements for such properties may contain
    restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions
    of these properties, or a portion thereof, that result in a
    taxable transaction for specified periods, following the
    contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership.
    These limitations may affect our ability to sell properties.
    This lack of liquidity and the Internal Revenue Code
    restrictions may limit our ability to vary our portfolio
    promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions
    and, as a result, could adversely affect our financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.


 



    We
    could be adversely affected if a significant number of our
    customers are unable to meet their lease
    obligations.


 


    Our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value
    of our stock would be adversely affected if a significant number
    of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations to
    us. In the event of a significant number of lease defaults, our
    cash flow may not be sufficient to pay dividends to our
    stockholders and repay maturing debt. As of December 31,
    2007, on an owned and managed basis, we did not have any single
    customer account for annualized base rent revenues greater than
    3.5%. However, in the event of lease defaults by a significant
    number of our customers, we may incur substantial costs in
    enforcing our rights as landlord.


 



    We may
    be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous terms or
    acquisitions may not perform as we expect.


 


    We acquire and intend to continue to acquire primarily
    industrial properties. The acquisition of properties entails
    various risks, including the risks that our investments may not
    perform as we expect, that we may be unable to quickly and
    efficiently integrate our new acquisitions into our existing
    operations and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired
    property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. Further,
    we face significant competition for attractive investment
    opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors,
    including both publicly-traded real estate investment trusts and
    private institutional investment funds. This competition
    increases as investments in real estate become increasingly
    attractive relative to other forms of investment. As a result of
    competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties
    as we desire or the purchase price may be significantly
    elevated. In addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions
    through a combination of borrowings under our unsecured credit
    facilities, proceeds from equity or debt offerings by us or the
    operating partnership or our subsidiaries and proceeds from
    property divestitures, which may not be available and which
    could adversely affect our cash flow. Any of the above risks
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
    market price of, our stock.



    
    9



Table of Contents





    We may
    be unable to complete renovation, development and redevelopment
    projects on advantageous terms.


 


    As part of our business, we develop new and renovate and
    redevelop existing properties, and we intend to continue to
    expand and increase our investment in our development,
    renovation and redevelopment business. The real estate
    development, renovation and redevelopment business involves
    significant risks that could adversely affect our financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    dividends on, and the market price of, our stock, which include
    the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects
    on favorable terms and complete construction on schedule or
    within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and
    construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and
    generating cash flow;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in
    obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy
    and other governmental permits and authorizations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing
    cash flow below budgeted amounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value
    created by our value-added conversion projects ever or on our
    expected timetables;




 



     
        • 

    
    substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment
    activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically
    require a significant amount of management’s time and
    attention, diverting their attention from our
    day-to-day
    operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    upon completion of construction, we may not be able to obtain,
    or obtain on advantageous terms, permanent financing for
    activities that we have financed through construction loans.










 



    Risks
    Associated With Our International Business


 



    Our
    international growth is subject to special risks and we may not
    be able to effectively manage our international
    growth.


 


    We have acquired and developed, and expect to continue to
    acquire and develop, properties outside the United States.
    Because local markets affect our operations, our international
    investments are subject to economic fluctuations in the
    international locations in which we invest. In addition, our
    international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing
    business abroad such as revisions in tax treaties or other laws
    and regulations, including those governing the taxation of our
    international revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds,
    and, in certain parts of the world, uncertainty over property
    rights and political instability. We cannot predict the
    likelihood that any of these developments may occur. Further, we
    have entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements with
    non-U.S. entities
    that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute
    resolution in the courts of, another country or region. We
    cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would provide us
    with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that
    may arise. Further, even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory
    decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could
    have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely
    basis or at all.


 


    We also have offices in many countries outside the United States
    and, as a result, our operations may be subject to risks that
    may limit our ability to effectively establish, staff and manage
    our offices outside the United States, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    differing employment practices and labor issues;




 



     
        • 

    
    local business and cultural factors that differ from our usual
    standards and practices;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between
    jurisdictions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    health concerns.





 


    Our global growth (including growth in new regions in the United
    States) subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated
    with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and
    establishing effective controls and



    
    10



Table of Contents




    procedures to regulate the operations of new offices. In
    addition, payroll expenses are paid in local currencies and,
    therefore, we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations
    in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and these
    currencies.


 


    Further, our business has grown rapidly and continues to grow
    through international property acquisitions and developments. If
    we fail to effectively manage our international growth, then our
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock
    could be adversely affected.


 



    Acquired
    properties may be located in new markets, where we may face
    risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar
    market.


 


    We have acquired and may continue to acquire properties in
    international markets that are new to us. When we acquire
    properties located in these markets, we may face risks
    associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of
    the local economy, forging new business relationships in the
    area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting
    procedures. We work to mitigate such risks through extensive
    diligence and research and associations with experienced
    partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks
    will be eliminated.


 



    We are
    subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates
    between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the other
    countries in which we invest.


 


    We are pursuing, and intend to continue to pursue, growth
    opportunities in international markets. As we invest in
    countries where the U.S. dollar is not the national
    currency, we are subject to international currency risks from
    the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the
    U.S. dollar and the currencies of those other countries. A
    significant depreciation in the value of the currency of one or
    more countries where we have a significant investment may
    materially affect our results of operations. We attempt to
    mitigate any such effects by borrowing under our multi-currency
    credit facility in the currency of the country in which we are
    investing and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place
    international currency put option contracts to hedge exchange
    rate fluctuations. For leases denominated in international
    currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to
    manage the international currency exchange risk. We cannot
    assure you, however, that our efforts will successfully
    neutralize all international currency risks. If we do engage in
    international currency exchange rate hedging activities, any
    income recognized with respect to these hedges may not qualify
    under the 75% or the 95% gross income tests that we must satisfy
    annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a real
    estate investment trust.







 



    General
    Business Risks


 



    Our
    performance and value are impacted by the local economic
    conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in
    California.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, our industrial properties located
    in California represented 23.6% of the aggregate square footage
    of our industrial operating properties and 22.7% of our
    industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis.
    Our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in
    California may be affected by local real estate conditions (such
    as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties)
    and the local economic climate. Business layoffs, downsizing,
    industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may
    adversely impact California’s economic climate. Because of
    the number of properties we have located in California, a
    downturn in California’s economy or real estate conditions
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
    market price of, our stock.


 



    We may
    experience losses that our insurance does not
    cover.


 


    We carry commercial liability, property and rental loss
    insurance covering all the properties that we own and manage in
    types and amounts that we believe are adequate and appropriate
    given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of
    coverage and industry practice. Certain losses, such as those
    due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be
    insured subject to certain limitations, including large
    deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. Although we have
    obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy
    specifications and insured limits that we consider commercially
    reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, we
    cannot



    
    11



Table of Contents




    be certain that we will be able to renew coverage on comparable
    terms or collect under such policies. In addition, there are
    other types of losses, such as those from riots, bio-terrorism
    or acts of war, that are not generally insured in our industry
    because it is not economically feasible to do so. We may incur
    material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and we may not
    be able to continue to obtain insurance at commercially
    reasonable rates. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or
    that exceeds our insured limits with respect to one or more of
    our properties, then we could lose the capital invested in the
    damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue
    from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we
    would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial
    obligations related to the properties. Moreover, as the general
    partner of the operating partnership, we generally will be
    liable for all of the operating partnership’s unsatisfied
    recourse obligations, including any obligations incurred by the
    operating partnership as the general partner of co-investment
    ventures. Any such losses could adversely affect our financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.


 


    A number of our properties are located in areas that are known
    to be subject to earthquake activity. U.S. properties
    located in active seismic areas include properties in the
    San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and Seattle. Our
    largest concentration of such properties is in California where,
    on an owned and managed basis, as of December 31, 2007, we
    had 282 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
    27.9 million square feet and representing 23.6% of our
    industrial operating properties based on aggregate square
    footage and 22.7% based on industrial annualized base rent, on
    an owned and managed basis. International properties located in
    active seismic areas include Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and Mexico
    City, Mexico. We carry earthquake insurance on all of our
    properties located in areas historically subject to seismic
    activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that
    we believe are commercially reasonable. We evaluate our
    earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current
    industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside
    consultants.


 


    A number of our properties are located in areas that are known
    to be subject to hurricane
    and/or flood
    risk. We carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of
    our properties located in areas historically subject to such
    activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that
    we believe are commercially reasonable. We evaluate our
    insurance coverage annually in light of current industry
    practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants.


 



    We are
    subject to risks and liabilities in connection with properties
    owned through co-investment ventures, limited liability
    companies, partnerships and other investments.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we owned approximately
    83.4 million square feet of our properties through several
    co-investment ventures, limited liability companies or
    partnerships with third parties. Our organizational documents do
    not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in
    partnerships, limited liability companies or co-investment
    ventures and we intend to continue to develop and acquire
    properties through co-investment ventures, limited liability
    companies, partnerships with and investments in other entities
    when warranted by the circumstances. Such partners may share
    certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners
    may manage the properties in the co-investment venture
    partnership, limited liability company or co-investment venture
    investments. Partnership, limited liability company or
    co-investment venture investments involve certain risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    if our partners, co-members or co-investment venturers go
    bankrupt, then we and any other remaining general partners,
    members or co-investment venturers would generally remain liable
    for the partnership’s, limited liability company’s or
    co-investment venture’s liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital
    contributions, then we may be required to contribute such
    capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    our partners, co-members or co-investment venturers might have
    economic or other business interests or goals that are
    inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would
    affect our ability to operate the property;






    
    12



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our partners, co-members or co-investment venturers may have the
    power to act contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or
    objectives, including our current policy with respect to
    maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust;




 



     
        • 

    
    the co-investment venture, limited liability and partnership
    agreements often restrict the transfer of a co-investment
    venture’s, member’s or partner’s interest or may
    otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we
    desire or on advantageous terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    our relationships with our partners, co-members or co-investment
    venturers are generally contractual in nature and may be
    terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and
    in such event, we may not continue to own or operate the
    interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to
    purchase such interests or assets at an above-market price to
    continue ownership;




 



     
        • 

    
    disputes between us and our partners, co-members or
    co-investment venturers may result in litigation or arbitration
    that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and
    directors from focusing their time and effort on our business
    and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable
    partnership, limited liability company, or co-investment venture
    to additional risk; and




 



     
        • 

    
    we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our
    partners, co-members or co-investment venturers.





 


    We generally seek to maintain sufficient control or influence
    over our partnerships, limited liability companies and
    co-investment ventures to permit us to achieve our business
    objectives, however, we may not be able to do so, and the
    occurrence of one or more of the events described above could
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
    cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
    of, our stock.


 



    We may
    be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous terms or
    contribute properties.


 


    We intend to continue to divest ourselves of properties that do
    not meet our strategic objectives, provided that we can
    negotiate acceptable terms and conditions. Our ability to
    dispose of properties on advantageous terms depends on factors
    beyond our control, including competition from other sellers and
    the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of
    our properties. If we are unable to dispose of properties on
    favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property
    divestitures in accordance with our investment strategy, then
    our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock
    could be adversely affected.


 


    We also anticipate contributing or selling properties to our
    co-investment ventures. If the co-investment ventures are unable
    to raise additional capital on favorable terms after currently
    available capital is depleted or if the value of such properties
    are appraised at less than the cost of such properties, then
    such contributions or sales could be delayed or prevented,
    adversely affecting our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
    market price of, our stock. For example, although we have
    acquired land for development and made capital commitments in
    Japan and Mexico, we cannot be assured that we ultimately will
    be able to contribute such properties to our co-investment
    ventures as we have planned.


 



    We may
    not be successful in contributing properties to our
    co-investment ventures or disposing of properties to third
    parties.


 


    We regularly contribute properties that we acquire or develop to
    our co-investment ventures, or sell these properties to third
    parties, and we intend to continue to contribute and sell
    properties as opportunities arise and build our private capital
    business. Our ability to contribute or sell properties on
    advantageous terms is affected by competition from other owners
    of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties,
    current market conditions, including the capitalization rates
    applicable to our properties, and other factors beyond our
    control. Our ability to develop and timely lease properties will
    impact our ability to contribute or sell these properties.
    Continued access to debt and equity capital, in the private and
    public markets, by our co-investment ventures is necessary in
    order for us to continue our strategy of contributing properties
    to these funds. Should we not have sufficient properties
    available that meet the investment criteria of current or future
    co-investment ventures, or should the co-investment ventures
    have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then
    these contributions could be delayed resulting in



    
    13



Table of Contents




    adverse effects on our liquidity and on our ability to meet
    projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period.
    Failure to meet our projected earnings levels in a particular
    reporting period could have an adverse effect on our results of
    operations, distributable cash flow and on the value of our
    securities. Further, our inability to redeploy the proceeds from
    our divestitures in accordance with our investment strategy
    could have an adverse effect on our results of operations,
    distributable cash flow, our ability to meet our debt
    obligations in a timely manner and the value of our securities
    in subsequent periods.


 



    Contingent
    or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    We have acquired and may in the future acquire properties
    subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only
    limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a
    result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon
    ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might
    have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely
    affect our cash flow. Contingent or unknown liabilities with
    respect to entities or properties acquired might include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    liabilities for environmental conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course
    of business;




 



     
        • 

    
    tax liabilities; and




 



     
        • 

    
    claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and
    directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the
    properties.





 



    We are
    dependent on external sources of capital.


 


    In order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we are
    required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least
    90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income
    (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and
    by excluding any net capital gain) and are subject to tax to the
    extent our income is not fully distributed. Consequently, we may
    not be able to fund all future capital needs, including
    acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from
    operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of
    capital. Further, in order to maintain our real estate
    investment trust status and avoid the payment of income and
    excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis
    to meet the real estate investment trust distribution
    requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are
    not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing
    needs could result from differences in timing between the actual
    receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax
    purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures,
    the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization
    payments. Our ability to access private debt and equity capital
    on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of
    factors, including general market conditions, the market’s
    perception of our growth potential, our current and potential
    future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of
    our capital stock.







 



    Debt
    Financing Risks


 



    We
    could incur more debt, increasing our debt
    service.


 


    It is generally our policy to incur debt, either directly or
    through our subsidiaries, only if it will not cause our share of
    total
    debt-to-our
    share of total market capitalization ratio to exceed
    approximately 45% over the long term. Our definition of
    “our share of total market capitalization” is our
    share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation
    preferences plus market equity. See footnote 1 to the
    Capitalization Ratios table contained in Part II,
    Item 7: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operation —
    Liquidity and Capital Resources” for our definitions of
    “market equity” and “our share of total
    debt.” The aggregate amount of indebtedness that we may
    incur under our policy increases directly with an increase in
    the market price per share of our capital stock. Further, our
    management could alter or eliminate this policy without
    stockholder approval. If we change this policy, then we could
    become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt
    service that could adversely affect the cash available for
    distribution to our stockholders.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    We
    face risks associated with the use of debt to fund acquisitions
    and developments, including refinancing and interest rate
    risk.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we had total debt outstanding of
    $3.5 billion. We guarantee the operating partnership’s
    obligations with respect to the senior debt securities
    referenced in our financial statements. We are subject to risks
    normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that
    our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of
    principal and interest. We anticipate that we will repay only a
    small portion of the principal of our debt prior to maturity.
    Accordingly, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion
    of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we
    may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of
    any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our
    existing debt. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal
    payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds of other
    capital transactions, then we expect that our cash flow will not
    be sufficient in all years to repay all such maturing debt and
    to pay dividends to our stockholders. Furthermore, if prevailing
    interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such
    as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate
    loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then
    the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness
    would increase. Higher interest rates on newly incurred debt may
    negatively impact us as well. If interest rates increase, our
    interest costs and overall costs of capital will increase, which
    could adversely affect our transaction and development activity,
    financial condition, results of operation, cash flow, the market
    price of our stock, our ability to pay principal and interest on
    our debt and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.


 


    In addition, if we mortgage one or more of our properties to
    secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet
    mortgage payments, then the property could be foreclosed upon or
    transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income
    and asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of our properties
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
    market price of, our stock.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding guarantees in
    the amount of $95.9 million in connection with certain
    acquisitions. As of December 31, 2007, we also guaranteed
    $41.2 million and $107.9 million on outstanding loans
    on five of our consolidated co-investment ventures and two of
    our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, respectively. Also,
    we have entered into contribution agreements with certain of our
    unconsolidated co-investment venture funds. These contribution
    agreements require us to make additional capital contributions
    to the applicable co-investment venture fund upon certain
    defaults by the co-investment venture of its debt obligations to
    the lenders. Such additional capital contributions will cover
    all or part of the applicable co-investment venture’s debt
    obligation and may be greater than our share of the
    co-investment venture’s debt obligation or the value of our
    share of any property securing such debt. Our contribution
    obligations under these agreements will be reduced by the
    amounts recovered by the lender and the fair market value of the
    property, if any, used to secure the debt and obtained by the
    lender upon default. Our potential obligations under these
    contribution agreements were $160.2 million as of
    December 31, 2007. We intend to continue to guarantee debt
    of our unconsolidated co-investment venture funds and make
    additional contributions to our unconsolidated co-investment
    venture funds in connection with property contributions to the
    funds. Such payment obligations under such guarantees and
    contribution obligations under such contribution agreements, if
    required to be paid, could be of a magnitude that could
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
    cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
    of, our stock.


 



    Adverse
    changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our
    financing activity.


 


    The credit ratings of our senior unsecured long-term debt and
    preferred stock are based on our operating performance,
    liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and
    other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their
    rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount
    of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings
    we may obtain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our
    current credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur
    higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining
    additional financing. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings
    may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences
    under our current and future credit facilities and debt
    instruments. Since we depend on debt financing to fund our
    acquisition and development activity, adverse changes in our
    credit ratings could negatively impact our development and
    acquisition activity, future growth, financial condition, and
    the market price of our stock.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Covenants
    in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    The terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness
    require that we comply with a number of financial and other
    covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and
    leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. These
    covenants may limit flexibility in our operations, and our
    failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default
    under the applicable debt agreement even if we have satisfied
    our payment obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we had
    certain non-recourse, secured loans, which are
    cross-collateralized by multiple properties. If we default on
    any of these loans, we may then be required to repay such
    indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to
    avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties
    within the applicable pool. Foreclosure on our properties, or
    our inability to refinance our loans on favorable terms, could
    adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations,
    cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
    of, our stock. In addition, our credit facilities and senior
    debt securities contain certain cross-default provisions, which
    are triggered in the event that our other material indebtedness
    is in default. These cross-default provisions may require us to
    repay or restructure the credit facilities and the senior debt
    securities in addition to any mortgage or other debt that is in
    default, which could adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
    on, and the market price of, our stock.


 



    Failure
    to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect
    results of operations.


 


    We seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by
    using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate
    cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. These
    agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the
    counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
    arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in
    reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court
    could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable.
    Hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. Failure
    to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may
    materially adversely affect our results of operations.







 



    Conflicts
    of Interest Risks


 



    Some
    of our directors and executive officers are involved in other
    real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have
    conflicts of interest with us.


 


    From time to time, certain of our executive officers and
    directors may own interests in other real-estate related
    businesses and investments, including de minimis holdings of the
    equity securities of public and private real estate companies.
    Our executive officers’ involvement in other real
    estate-related activities could divert their attention from our
    day-to-day
    operations. Our executive officers have entered into
    non-competition agreements with us pursuant to which they have
    agreed not to engage in any activities, directly or indirectly,
    in respect of commercial real estate, and not to make any
    investment in respect of any industrial or retail real estate,
    other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the
    outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such
    activities or through certain specified investments. State law
    may limit our ability to enforce these agreements. We will not
    acquire any properties from our executive officers, directors or
    their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by a
    majority of the disinterested and independent (as defined by the
    rules of the New York Stock Exchange) members of our board of
    directors with respect to that transaction.


 



    Our
    role as general partner of the operating partnership may
    conflict with the interests of our stockholders.


 


    As the general partner of the operating partnership, we have
    fiduciary obligations to the operating partnership’s
    limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the
    interests of our stockholders. In addition, those persons
    holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as
    a class on certain amendments to the operating
    partnership’s partnership agreement and individually to
    approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their
    rights. The limited partners may exercise these voting rights in
    a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders.
    In addition, under the terms of the operating partnership’s
    partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will
    have certain approval rights with respect to certain
    transactions that affect all stockholders but which they may not
    exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of all
    stockholders.



    
    16



Table of Contents








 



    Risks
    Associated with Government Regulations


 



    The
    costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and
    any related potential liability could exceed our budgets for
    these items.


 


    Under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a
    current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be
    liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of
    certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at,
    on, under or in its property. The costs of removal or
    remediation of such substances could be substantial. These laws
    typically impose liability and
    clean-up
    responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator
    knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more
    than one person may have been responsible for the contamination,
    each person covered by the environmental laws may be held
    responsible for all of the
    clean-up
    costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or
    operator of a site for damages based on personal injury,
    property damage or other costs, including investigation and
    clean-up
    costs, resulting from the environmental contamination.


 


    Environmental laws in some countries, including the United
    States, also require that owners or operators of buildings
    containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos,
    adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with
    asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or
    other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during
    building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines
    and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply
    with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek
    recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated
    with exposure to asbestos. Some of our properties may contain
    asbestos-containing building materials.


 


    In addition, some of our properties are leased or have been
    leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use,
    store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous
    or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of
    such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain of our
    properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that
    have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other
    hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have
    engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may
    release such hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time,
    we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with
    known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the
    environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are
    quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior
    risk-adjusted return. In such an instance, we underwrite the
    costs of environmental investigation,
    clean-up and
    monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtain appropriate
    environmental insurance for the property. Further, in connection
    with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain
    responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or
    monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties.


 


    At the time of acquisition, we subject all of our properties to
    a Phase I or similar environmental assessments by independent
    environmental consultants and we may have additional
    Phase II testing performed upon the consultant’s
    recommendation. These environmental assessments have not
    revealed, and we are not aware of, any environmental liability
    that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
    Nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal
    all environmental liabilities and that there are material
    environmental liabilities unknown to us, or that known
    environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are
    greater than we anticipated. Further, our properties’
    current environmental condition may be affected by customers,
    the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the
    properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks) or
    by unrelated third parties. If the costs of compliance with
    existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed our
    budgets for these items, then our financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and
    the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected.


 



    Compliance
    or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
    and other similar regulations could result in substantial
    costs.


 


    Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public
    accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to
    access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result
    in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the
    award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to
    make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans
    with Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then
    our cash



    
    17



Table of Contents




    flow and the amounts available for dividends to our stockholders
    may be adversely affected. Our properties are also subject to
    various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such
    as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. We could
    incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with
    these requirements. While we believe that our properties are
    currently in material compliance with these regulatory
    requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements
    may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated
    expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of
    operations.







 



    Federal
    Income Tax Risks


 



    Our
    failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust would have
    serious adverse consequences to our stockholders.


 


    We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under
    Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”)
    commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1997.
    We currently intend to operate so as to qualify as a real estate
    investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code and believe
    that our current organization and method of operation comply
    with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal
    Revenue Code to enable us to continue to qualify as a real
    estate investment trust. However, it is possible that we have
    been organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow
    us to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or that our
    future operations could cause us to fail to qualify.
    Qualification as a real estate investment trust requires us to
    satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a
    quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex
    sections of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only
    limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and
    involves the determination of various factual matters and
    circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in
    order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we must
    derive at least 95% of our gross income in any year from
    qualifying sources. In addition, we must pay dividends to our
    stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our real
    estate investment trust taxable income (determined without
    regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital
    gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly
    basis. These provisions and the applicable Treasury regulations
    are more complicated in our case because we hold our assets
    through the operating partnership. Legislation, new regulations,
    administrative interpretations or court decisions could
    significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification
    as a real estate investment trust or the federal income tax
    consequences of such qualification. However, we are not aware of
    any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our
    ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust.


 


    If we fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any
    taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax
    (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our
    taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are
    entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would
    be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust
    for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost
    our qualification. If we lost our real estate investment trust
    status, our net earnings available for investment or
    distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for
    each of the years involved. In addition, we would no longer be
    required to make distributions to our stockholders.


 



    Certain
    property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income,
    resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the
    transaction.


 


    From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some
    of our properties, including by contributing properties to our
    co-investment venture funds. Under the Internal Revenue Code,
    any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as
    inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary
    course of business is treated as income from a prohibited
    transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. We do not believe
    that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions
    of properties into our co-investment venture funds are properly
    treated as prohibited transactions. However, whether property is
    held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends
    on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular
    transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that
    certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or
    contributions of properties into our co-investment venture funds
    are prohibited transactions. While we believe that the Internal
    Revenue Service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the
    Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a
    transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a
    prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100%
    penalty tax on any gain allocable



    
    18



Table of Contents




    to us from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from
    a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to
    satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate
    investment trust.







 



    Risks
    Associated With Our Dependence on Key Personnel


 


    We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key
    employees. From time to time, our personnel and their roles may
    change. While we believe that we could find suitable employees
    to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any
    change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
    market price of, our stock. We do not have employment agreements
    with any of our executive officers.


 


    Because our compensation packages include equity-based
    incentives, pressure on our stock price or limitations on our
    ability to award such incentives could affect our ability to
    offer competitive compensation packages to our executives and
    key employees. If we are unable to continue to attract and
    retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required
    to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our
    performance and competitive position could be materially
    adversely affected.







 



    Risks
    Associated with Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures and
    Internal Control over Financial Reporting


 



    Our
    business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in
    our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over
    financial reporting.


 


    The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
    procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not
    prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While
    management will continue to review the effectiveness of our
    disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
    financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal
    control over financial reporting will be effective in
    accomplishing all control objectives all of the time.
    Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal
    control over financial reporting which may occur in the future
    could result in misstatements of our results of operations,
    restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock
    price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business,
    reputation, results of operations, financial condition or
    liquidity.







 



    Risks
    Associated with Ownership of Our Stock


 



    Limitations
    in our charter and bylaws could prevent a change in
    control.


 


    Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay, defer or
    prevent a change in control or other transaction that could
    provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to
    realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the
    common stock. To maintain our qualification as a real estate
    investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than
    50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, actually or
    constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the
    Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) during the
    last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for
    which a real estate investment trust election is made.
    Furthermore, our common stock must be held by a minimum of
    100 persons for at least 335 days of a
    12-month
    taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). In
    addition, if we, or an owner of 10% or more of our stock,
    actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of our
    customers (or a customer of any partnership in which we are a
    partner), then the rent received by us (either directly or
    through any such partnership) from that customer will not be
    qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment
    trust gross income tests of the Internal Revenue Code. To help
    us maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust
    for federal income tax purposes, we prohibit the ownership,
    actually or by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions
    of the Internal Revenue Code, by any single person, of more than
    9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more
    restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of each of our
    common stock, series L preferred stock, series M
    preferred stock, series O preferred stock, and
    series P preferred stock (unless such limitations are
    waived by our board of directors). We also prohibit the
    ownership, actually or constructively, of any shares of our
    series D preferred stock by any single person so that no
    such person, taking into account all of our stock so owned by
    such person, including any common stock or other series of
    preferred stock, may own in excess of 9.8% of our issued and
    outstanding capital stock (unless such limitations are waived by
    our board of directors). We refer to this limitation as



    
    19



Table of Contents




    the “ownership limit.” The charter provides that
    shares acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will
    be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated
    charitable beneficiary. The charter further provides that any
    person who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit
    will not be entitled to any dividends on the shares or be
    entitled to vote the shares or receive any proceeds from the
    subsequent sale of the shares in excess of the lesser of the
    price paid for the shares or the amount realized from the sale.
    A transfer of shares in violation of the above limits may be
    void under certain circumstances. The ownership limit may have
    the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in
    control and, therefore, could adversely affect our
    stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the
    then-prevailing market price for the shares of our common stock
    in connection with such transaction.


 


    Our charter authorizes us to issue additional shares of common
    and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and
    other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that we
    issue. Although our board of directors has no intention to do so
    at the present time, it could establish a series or class of
    preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying,
    deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in
    control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock
    or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.


 


    Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law also contain other
    provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders
    without approval of our board of directors, which in turn may
    delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in
    control. Those provisions in our charter and bylaws include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a
    two-thirds vote of stockholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    our board can fix the number of directors within set limits
    (which limits are subject to change by our board), and fill
    vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the
    remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the
    case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the
    board, a majority of the entire board;




 



     
        • 

    
    stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or
    propose business for consideration at a stockholders’
    meeting; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the request of the holders of 50% or more of our common stock is
    necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting.





 


    Those provisions provided for under Maryland law include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend our
    charter; and




 



     
        • 

    
    stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous
    approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in
    question.





 


    In addition, our board could elect to adopt, without stockholder
    approval, certain other provisions under Maryland law that may
    impede a change in control.


 



    The
    price per share of our stock may fluctuate
    significantly.


 


    The market price per share of our common stock may fluctuate
    significantly in response to many factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating
    results or dividends;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates;




 



     
        • 

    
    publication of research reports about us or the real estate
    industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the
    attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other
    equity securities (including securities issued by other real
    estate-based companies);




 



     
        • 

    
    general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in
    interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead
    prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual
    yield from future dividends;




 



     
        • 

    
    a change in analyst ratings or our credit ratings;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in market valuations of similar companies;






    
    20



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the
    future;




 



     
        • 

    
    additions or departures of key management personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    actions by institutional stockholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    speculation in the press or investment community;




 



     
        • 

    
    terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which our
    securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and
    causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence
    and spending;




 



     
        • 

    
    governmental regulatory action and changes in tax laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    the realization of any of the other risk factors included or
    incorporated by reference in this report; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general market and economic conditions.





 


    Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. These
    factors may cause the market price of shares of our common stock
    to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of
    operations, business or our prospects.


 



    If we
    issue additional securities, then the investment of existing
    stockholders will be diluted.


 


    As a real estate investment trust, we are dependent on external
    sources of capital and may issue common or preferred stock or
    debt securities to fund our future capital needs. We have
    authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or
    debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or AMB
    Property II, L.P., to issue limited partnership units, in
    exchange for property or otherwise. Existing stockholders have
    no preemptive right to acquire any additional securities issued
    by the operating partnership, AMB Property II, L.P., or us and
    any issuance of additional equity securities may adversely
    effect the market price of our stock and could result in
    dilution of an existing stockholder’s investment.


 



    Earnings,
    cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the
    price of our stock.


 


    As a real estate investment trust, the market value of our
    equity securities, in general, is based primarily upon the
    market’s perception of our growth potential and our current
    and potential future earnings and cash dividends. Our equity
    securities’ market value is based secondarily upon the
    market value of our underlying real estate assets. For this
    reason, shares of our stock may trade at prices that are higher
    or lower than our net asset value per share. To the extent that
    we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working
    capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while
    increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not
    correspondingly increase the market price of our stock. Our
    failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to
    future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect
    the market price of our stock. Further, the distribution yield
    on the stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock)
    relative to market interest rates may also influence the price
    of our stock. An increase in market interest rates might lead
    prospective purchasers of our stock to expect a higher
    distribution yield, which would adversely affect our
    stock’s market price. Additionally, if the market price of
    our stock declines significantly, then we might breach certain
    covenants with respect to our debt obligations, which could
    adversely affect our liquidity and ability to make future
    acquisitions and our ability to pay dividends to our
    stockholders.


 



    We
    could change our investment and financing policies without a
    vote of stockholders.


 


    Subject to our current investment policy to maintain our
    qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change
    is approved by our board of directors under certain
    circumstances), our board of directors determines our investment
    and financing policies, our growth strategy and our debt,
    capitalization, distribution and operating policies. Our board
    of directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies
    at any time without a vote of stockholders. Any such changes may
    not serve the interests of all stockholders and could adversely
    affect our financial condition or results of operations,
    including our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.


 



    Shares
    available for future sale could adversely affect the market
    price of our common stock.


 


    The operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. had
    3,992,607 common limited partnership units issued and
    outstanding as of December 31, 2007, which may be exchanged
    generally one year after their issuance on a



    
    21



Table of Contents




    one-for-one
    basis into shares of our common stock. In the future, the
    operating partnership or AMB Property II, L.P. may issue
    additional limited partnership units, and we may issue shares of
    common stock, in connection with the acquisition of properties
    or in private placements. These shares of common stock and the
    shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of limited
    partnership units may be sold in the public securities markets
    over time, pursuant to registration rights that we have granted,
    or may grant in connection with future issuances, or pursuant to
    Rule 144. In addition, common stock issued under our stock
    option and incentive plans may also be sold in the market
    pursuant to registration statements that we have filed or
    pursuant to Rule 144. As of December 31, 2007, under
    our stock option and incentive plans, we had
    9,443,727 shares of common stock reserved and available for
    future issuance, had outstanding options to purchase
    5,855,777 shares of common stock (of which 4,660,584 are
    vested and exercisable) and had 652,838 unvested restricted
    shares of common stock outstanding. Future sales of a
    substantial number of shares of our common stock in the market
    or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely
    affect the market price of our common stock. Further, the
    existence of the operating partnership’s limited
    partnership units and the shares of our common stock reserved
    for issuance upon exchange of limited partnership units and the
    exercise of options, and registration rights referred to above,
    may adversely affect the terms upon which we are able to obtain
    additional capital through the sale of equity securities.







 




    
    



    
    Item 1B