Item 1A of this report. The company
    cautions you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking
    statements, which reflect the company’s analysis only and
    speak as of the date of this report or as of the dates indicated
    in the statements. All of the company’s forward-looking
    statements, including those in this report, are qualified in
    their entirety by this statement. The company assumes no
    obligation to update or supplement forward-looking
    statements.


 


    The company uses the terms “industrial properties” or
    “industrial buildings” to describe the various types
    of industrial properties in its portfolio and uses these terms
    interchangeably with the following: logistics facilities,
    centers or warehouses, High Throughput
    Distribution®

    (HTD®)

    facilities; or any combination of these terms. The company uses
    the term “owned and managed” to describe assets in
    which it has at least a 10% ownership interest, for which it is
    the property or asset manager and which it currently intends to
    hold for the long term. The company uses the term “joint
    venture” to describe all joint ventures, including
    co-investment ventures with real estate developers, other real
    estate operators, or institutional investors where the company
    may or may not have control, act as the manager
    and/or
    developer, earn asset management distributions or fees, or earn
    incentive distributions or promote interests. In certain cases,
    the company might provide development, leasing, property
    management
    and/or
    accounting services, for which it may receive compensation. The
    company uses the term “co-investment venture” to
    describe joint ventures with institutional investors, managed by
    the company, from which the company typically receives
    acquisition fees for acquisitions, portfolio and asset
    management distributions or fees, as well as incentive
    distributions or promote interests. Unless otherwise indicated,
    management’s discussion and analysis applies to both the
    operating partnership and the parent company.


 


    The company’s website address is
    http://www.amb.com.
    The company posts and will post announcements and other company
    information, some of which may be material, in the Investor
    Relations section of the company’s website. Investors
    should visit the company’s website regularly to access such
    information. The annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K
    of the parent company and any





    
    6



Table of Contents





    amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are available on the company’s website free of charge
    as soon as reasonably practicable after the company
    electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the
    SEC. The public may read and copy these materials at the
    SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
    Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the
    operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains a website that contains such reports, proxy
    and information statements and other information, and the
    Internet address is
    http://www.sec.gov.
    The company’s Corporate Governance Principles and Code of
    Business Conduct are also posted on the company’s website.
    Information contained on the company’s website is not and
    should not be deemed a part of this report or any other report
    or filing filed with or furnished to the SEC. The operating
    partnership does not have a separate internet address and its
    SEC reports are available free of charge upon request to the
    attention of the company’s Investor Relations Department,
    AMB Property Corporation, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco,
    CA 94111. The following marks are registered trademarks of
    AMB Property Corporation:
    AMB®;

    and High Throughput
    Distribution®

    (HTD®).





    
    7



Table of Contents





 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business






 



    The
    Company


 


    The company is an owner, operator and developer of global
    industrial real estate, focused on major hub and gateway
    distribution markets in the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of
    December 31, 2010, the company owned, or had investments
    in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint
    ventures, properties and development projects expected to total
    approximately 159.6 million square feet (14.8 million
    square meters) in 49 markets within 15 countries.


 


    Of the approximately 159.6 million square feet as of
    December 31, 2010:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    on an owned and managed basis, which includes investments held
    on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint
    ventures, the company owned or partially owned approximately
    141.9 million square feet (principally, warehouse
    distribution buildings) that were 93.7% leased; the company had
    investments in eight development projects, which are expected to
    total approximately 2.2 million square feet upon
    completion; the company owned 25 development projects, totaling
    approximately 6.8 million square feet, which are available
    for sale or contribution; and the company had three value-added
    acquisitions, totaling approximately 1.2 million square
    feet;




 



     
        • 

    
    through non-managed unconsolidated joint ventures, the company
    had investments in 46 industrial operating buildings, totaling
    approximately 7.3 million square feet; and




 



     
        • 

    
    152,000 square feet of office space subject to a ground
    lease, which is the location of its global headquarters.





 


    The company’s business is operated primarily through the
    operating partnership. As of December 31, 2010, the parent
    company owned an approximate 98.2% general partnership interest
    in the operating partnership, excluding preferred units. As the
    sole general partner of the operating partnership, the parent
    company has the full, exclusive and complete responsibility for
    and discretion in its
    day-to-day
    management and control.


 


    The parent company is a self-administered and self-managed real
    estate investment trust and it expects that it has qualified,
    and will continue to qualify, as a real estate investment trust
    for federal income tax purposes beginning with the year ended
    December 31, 1997. As a self-administered and self-managed
    real estate investment trust, the company’s own employees
    perform its corporate, administrative and management functions,
    rather than the company relying on an outside manager for these
    services.


 


    The company believes that real estate is fundamentally a local
    business and is best operated by local teams in each of its
    markets. As a vertically integrated company, the company
    actively manages its portfolio of properties. In select markets,
    the company may, from time to time, establish relationships with
    third-party real estate management firms, brokers and developers
    that provide some property-level administrative and management
    services under the company’s direction.


 


    The parent company was incorporated in the state of Maryland in
    1997, and the operating partnership was formed in the state of
    Delaware in 1997. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 17
    of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for
    segment information related to the company’s operations and
    information regarding geographic areas.


 


    The company’s global headquarters are located at Pier 1,
    Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111; the company’s
    telephone number is
    (415) 394-9000.
    The company’s other principal office locations are in
    Amsterdam, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Mexico City, Shanghai,
    Singapore and Tokyo.



 



    Investment
    Strategy


 


    The company’s investment strategy focuses on providing
    distribution and logistics space to customers whose businesses
    are tied to global trade and depend on the efficient movement of
    goods through the global supply chain. The company’s
    properties are primarily located in the world’s busiest
    distribution markets featuring large, supply-constrained infill
    locations with dense populations and proximity to airports,
    seaports and ground transportation





    
    8



Table of Contents





    systems. When measured by annualized base rent, on an owned and
    managed basis, a substantial majority of the company’s
    portfolio of industrial properties is located in its target
    markets and much of this is in infill submarkets. Infill
    locations are characterized by supply constraints on the
    availability of land for competing projects as well as physical,
    political or economic barriers to new development. The company
    believes that its facilities are essential to creating
    efficiencies in the supply chain, and that its business
    encompasses a blend of real estate, global logistics and
    infrastructure.


 


    In its target markets, the company focuses on
    HTD®

    facilities, industrial properties designed to facilitate the
    rapid distribution of its customers’ products rather than
    the long-term storage of goods. The company’s investment
    focus on
    HTD®

    assets is based on what it believes to be a global trend toward
    lower inventory levels and expedited supply chains.
    HTD®

    facilities generally have a variety of physical and location
    characteristics that allow for the rapid transport of goods from
    point to point. These physical characteristics could include
    numerous dock doors, shallower building depths, fewer columns,
    large truck courts and more space for trailer parking. The
    company believes that these building characteristics help its
    customers reduce their costs and become more efficient in their
    logistics operations. The company’s customers include
    logistics, freight forwarding and air-express companies with
    time-sensitive needs that value facilities proximate to
    transportation infrastructure.


 


    The company believes that changes in global trade have been a
    primary driver of demand for industrial real estate for decades.
    The company has observed that demand for industrial real estate
    is further influenced by the long-term relationship between
    trade and GDP. Trade and GDP are correlated as higher levels of
    investment, production and consumption within a globalized
    economy are consistent with increased levels of imports and
    exports. As the world produces and consumes more, the company
    believes that the volume of global trade will continue to
    increase at a rate in excess of growth in global GDP. In the
    second half of the year, improving consumer demand and
    double-digit gains in global production and trade led customers
    to begin rebuilding their inventory levels, which is a trend
    that management believes will strengthen in 2011. Management
    also believes that its key hub and gateway markets will continue
    to lead the recovery in operating fundamentals and that a
    stronger recovery of fundamentals is expected to take hold in
    2011, with further increases in positive net absorption and
    declining availabilities.



 



    Primary
    Sources of Revenue and Earnings


 


    The primary source of the company’s core earnings is
    revenue received from its real estate operations and private
    capital business. The principal contributor of its core earnings
    is rent received from customers under long-term (generally three
    to 10 years) operating leases at its properties, including
    reimbursements from customers for certain operating costs and
    asset management fees. The company also generates core earnings
    from its private capital business, including priority
    distributions, acquisition and development reimbursements,
    promote interests and incentive distributions from its
    co-investment ventures. The company may generate additional
    earnings from the disposition of assets in its
    development-for-sale
    and value-added conversion programs, as well as from land sales.



 



    Long-Term
    Growth Strategies


 


    The company believes that its long-term growth will be driven by
    its ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    maintain and increase occupancy rates
    and/or
    increase rental rates at its properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    raise third-party equity and grow earnings generated from its
    private capital business by way of the acquisition and
    development of new properties or through the possible management
    of third party assets co-invested with the company;




 



     
        • 

    
    acquire industrial real estate with total returns above the
    company’s cost of capital; and




 



     
        • 

    
    develop properties profitably and then either hold or sell them
    to third-parties.







    
    9



Table of Contents




 



    Growth
    Through Operations


 


    The company seeks to generate long-term internal growth by
    maintaining a high occupancy rate at its properties, by
    controlling expenses and through contractual rent increases on
    existing space, thus capitalizing on the economies of scale
    inherent in owning, operating and growing a large global
    portfolio. The company actively manages its portfolio by
    establishing leasing strategies and negotiating lease terms,
    pricing, and level and timing of property improvements. With
    respect to its leasing strategies, the company takes a long-term
    view to ensure it maximizes the value of its real estate. As the
    company continues to work through a challenging operating
    environment and to provide flexibility to its customers, the
    company evaluates and adjusts its leasing strategies for market
    terms and leasing rates, which may include shorter leasing
    terms. The company believes that its long-standing focus on
    customer relationships and ability to provide global solutions
    for a well-diversified customer base in the logistics, shipping
    and air cargo industries will enable it to capitalize on
    opportunities as they arise.


 


    The company believes the strategic infill locations within its
    portfolio, the experience of its cycle-tested operations team
    and its ability to respond quickly to the needs of its customers
    provides a competitive advantage in leasing. Management believes
    the company’s regular maintenance, capital expenditure,
    energy management and sustainability programs create cost
    efficiencies that benefit the company and its customers.


 



    Growth
    Through Co-Investments


 


    The company, through AMB Capital Partners, LLC, its private
    capital group, was one of the pioneers of the real estate
    investment trust (REIT) industry’s co-investment model and
    has more than 27 years of experience in asset management
    and fund formation. The company co-invests in properties with
    private capital investors through partnerships, limited
    liability companies or other joint ventures. The company has a
    direct and long-standing relationship with a significant number
    of institutional investors. As of December 31, 2010, more
    than 56% of the company’s owned and managed operating
    portfolio is held through its nine significant co-investment
    ventures and funds. The company tailors industrial portfolios to
    investors’ specific needs in separate or commingled
    accounts and deploys capital in both close-ended and open-ended
    structures, while providing complete portfolio management and
    financial reporting services. Generally, the company is the
    largest investor in its open-ended funds and owns a
    10-50%
    interest in its co-investment ventures. The company believes its
    significant ownership in each of its funds provides a strong
    alignment of interests with its co-investment partners’
    interests.


 


    The company believes its co-investment program with private
    capital investors will continue to serve as a source of capital
    for new investments and revenues for its stockholders. In
    anticipation of the formation of future
    co-investment
    ventures, the company may also hold acquired and newly developed
    properties for contribution to future co-investment ventures.
    The company may make additional investments through its existing
    co-investment ventures or to new co-investment ventures in the
    future and currently plans to do so. The company is in various
    stages of discussions with prospective investors to attract new
    capital to take advantage of potential future opportunities and
    these capital-raising activities may include the formation of
    new joint ventures. Such transactions, if the company completes
    them, may be material individually or in aggregate.


 



    Growth
    Through Acquisitions and Capital Redeployment


 


    The company believes its acquisition experience and its network
    of property management, leasing and acquisition resources will
    continue to provide opportunities for growth. In addition to its
    internal resources, the company has long-standing relationships
    with lenders, leasing and investment sales brokers, as well as
    third-party local property management firms, which may give it
    access to additional acquisition opportunities. The company is
    actively monitoring opportunities in its target markets and
    intends to acquire high-quality, well-located industrial real
    estate.


 


    Additionally, the company seeks to acquire industrial properties
    that are wholly or partially vacant as a part of
    management’s belief that the discount in pricing attributed
    to the operating challenges of such a property could provide
    greater returns once it is stabilized. Value-added acquisitions
    represent unstabilized properties acquired by the company, which
    generally have one or more of the following characteristics:
    (i) existing vacancy, typically in excess of 20%,
    (ii) short-term lease rollover, typically during the first
    two years of ownership, or (iii) significant capital
    improvement requirements, typically in excess of 20% of the
    purchase price. The company excludes value-





    
    10



Table of Contents





    added acquisitions from its owned and managed and consolidated
    operating statistics prior to stabilization (generally 90%
    leased) in order to provide investors with data which it feels
    better reflect the performance of its core portfolio. The
    company strives to enhance the quality of its portfolio through
    acquisitions that are accretive to the company’s earnings
    and its net asset value. The company also seeks to redeploy
    capital from the sale of non-strategic assets into properties
    that better fit its current investment focus.


 


    The company is generally engaged in various stages of
    negotiations for a number of acquisitions and other
    transactions, some of which may be significant, that may
    include, but are not limited to, individual properties, large
    multi-property portfolios and platforms and property-owning or
    real-estate-related entities.


 



    Growth
    Through Development


 


    The company’s development business consists of conventional
    development,
    build-to-suit
    development, redevelopment, value-added conversions and land
    sales. The company believes, over the long term, customer demand
    for new industrial space in strategic markets tied to global
    trade will continue to outpace supply, most notably in major
    gateway markets in Asia, Europe and the Americas. The company
    believes that developing, redeveloping
    and/or
    expanding of well-located, high-quality industrial properties
    provides higher rates of return than may be obtained from
    purchasing existing properties. However, new developments,
    redevelopments and value-added conversions may require
    significant management attention and capital investment to
    maximize returns. The company pursues development projects
    directly and in co-investment ventures and development joint
    ventures, providing it with the flexibility to pursue
    development projects independently or in partnerships, depending
    on market conditions, submarkets or building sites and
    availability of capital. Completed development and redevelopment
    properties are held in its owned and managed portfolio or sold
    to third parties.


 


    Management believes its long-standing focus on infill locations
    can at times lead to opportunities to enhance value through the
    conversion of some of the company’s industrial properties
    to higher and better uses. Value-added conversion projects
    generally involve a significant enhancement or a change in use
    of the property from an industrial facility to a higher and
    better use, including use as research & development,
    manufacturing, office, residential, or retail properties.
    Activities required to prepare the property for conversion to a
    higher and better use may include rezoning, redesigning,
    reconstructing and re-tenanting. The sales price of a
    value-added conversion project is generally based on the
    underlying land value, reflecting its ultimate conversion to a
    higher and better use and, as such, little to no residual value
    is ascribed to the industrial building. Generally, the company
    expects to sell to third parties these value-added conversion
    projects at some point in the re-entitlement and conversion
    process, thus recognizing the enhanced value of the underlying
    land that supports the property’s repurposed use.


 


    Members of the company’s development team have broad
    experience in real estate development and possess
    multidisciplinary backgrounds that allow for the completion of
    the build-out and
    lease-up of
    the company’s development portfolio. Management believes
    that there are currently opportunities for land entitlement as
    municipalities are beginning to seek revenue generating
    activities.


 



    Proposed
    Merger with ProLogis


 


    On January 30, 2011, the parent company and the operating
    partnership entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the
    “merger agreement”) with ProLogis, a Maryland real
    estate investment trust, New Pumpkin Inc., a Maryland
    corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of ProLogis, Upper
    Pumpkin LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly
    owned subsidiary of New Pumpkin, and Pumpkin LLC, a Delaware
    limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Upper
    Pumpkin. The merger agreement provides for a merger of equals,
    in which through a series of transactions, ProLogis and its
    newly formed subsidiaries will be merged with and into the
    parent company (the “merger”), with the parent company
    continuing as the surviving corporation with its corporate name
    changed to “ProLogis Inc.” As a result of the mergers,
    each outstanding common share of beneficial interest of ProLogis
    will be converted into the right to receive 0.4464 of a newly
    issued share of common stock of





    
    11



Table of Contents





    the parent company. The merger is subject to customary closing
    conditions, including receipt of approval of parent company
    stockholders and ProLogis shareholders.


 


    The merger transactions entail the following steps:
    (1) Pumpkin LLC will be merged with and into ProLogis, with
    ProLogis continuing as the surviving entity and as a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Upper Pumpkin; (2) then, New Pumpkin
    will be merged with and into the parent company with the parent
    company continuing as the surviving corporation and its
    corporate name changed, and (3) then, the surviving
    corporation will contribute all of the outstanding equity
    interests of Upper Pumpkin to the operating partnership in
    exchange for the issuance by the operating partnership of
    partnership interests to the surviving corporation. As a result
    of these merger transactions, the combined company will be
    structured as an UPREIT.


 


    The merger agreement provides that, upon the consummation of the
    merger, the board of directors of the surviving corporation will
    consist of 11 members, as follows: (i) Mr. Hamid R.
    Moghadam, the current chief executive officer of the parent
    company, (ii) Mr. Walter C. Rakowich, the current
    chief executive officer of ProLogis, (iii) four individuals
    to be selected by the current members of the board of directors
    of the parent company, and (iv) five individuals to be
    selected by the current members of the board of trustees of
    ProLogis. In addition, upon the consummation of the merger,
    (a) Mr. Moghadam and Mr. Rakowich will become
    co-chief executive officers of the surviving corporation,
    (b) Mr. William E. Sullivan, the current chief
    financial officer of ProLogis, will become the chief financial
    officer of the surviving corporation, (c) Mr. Irving
    F. Lyons, III, a current member of the board of trustees of
    ProLogis, will become the lead independent director of the
    surviving corporation, (d) Mr. Moghadam will become
    the chairman of the board of directors of the surviving
    corporation and (e) Mr. Rakowich will become the
    chairman of the executive committee of the board of directors of
    the surviving corporation.


 


    The merger agreement also provides that, on December 31,
    2012, (i) unless earlier terminated in accordance with the
    bylaws of the surviving corporation, the employment of
    Mr. Rakowich as co-chief executive officer will terminate
    and Mr. Rakowich will thereupon retire as co-chief
    executive officer and as a director of the surviving
    corporation, and Mr. Moghadam will become the sole chief
    executive officer (and will remain the chairman of the board of
    directors) of the surviving corporation, and (ii) unless
    earlier terminated, the employment of Mr. Sullivan as the
    chief financial officer of the surviving corporation will
    terminate and Mr. Thomas S. Olinger, the current chief
    financial officer of the parent company, will become the chief
    financial officer of the surviving corporation.


 


    The parent company and the operating partnership have been named
    as defendants in at least two pending putative shareholder class
    actions filed in connection with the merger of the parent
    company and ProLogis: James Kinsey, et al. v. ProLogis,
    et al., no. 2011CV818, filed on or about
    February 2, 2011 in the Denver County District Court,
    Colorado; and Vernon C. Burrows, et al. v. ProLogis, et
    al., filed on or about February 15, 2011, in the
    Circuit Court of Maryland for Baltimore City. The complaints
    seek to enjoin the merger, alleging, among other things, that
    ProLogis’ directors and certain executive officers breached
    their fiduciary duties by failing to maximize the value to be
    received by ProLogis shareholders and by improperly considering
    certain directors’ personal interests in the transaction in
    determining whether to enter into the merger agreement. The
    Maryland complaint also includes a derivative claim on behalf of
    ProLogis based upon the same allegations. Both complaints also
    assert a claim of aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary
    duties against ProLogis, the parent company and the merger
    entities. The Colorado complaint also asserts a claim of aiding
    and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties against the operating
    partnership. In addition to an order enjoining the transaction,
    the complaints seek, among other things, attorneys’ fees
    and expenses, and the Maryland complaint further seeks certain
    monetary damages. The parent company and the operating
    partnership view the complaints to be without merit and intend
    to defend against them vigorously.


 


    Additional Information About the Proposed Transaction and
    Where to Find it:


 


    In connection with the proposed transaction, the company expects
    to file with the SEC a registration statement on
    Form S-4
    that will include a joint proxy statement of ProLogis and the
    company that also constitutes a prospectus of the company.
    ProLogis and the company also plan to file other relevant
    documents with the SEC regarding the proposed transaction.
    INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS
    AND OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC IF AND WHEN THEY
    BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT
    INFORMATION. You may obtain a free copy of the joint proxy
    statement/prospectus (if and when it becomes available) and
    other relevant documents filed by ProLogis





    
    12



Table of Contents





    and the company with the SEC at the SEC’s website at
    www.sec.gov. Copies of the documents filed by ProLogis
    with the SEC will be available free of charge on ProLogis’
    website at www.prologis.com or by contacting ProLogis Investor
    Relations at +1-303-567-5690. Copies of the documents filed by
    the company with the SEC will be available free of charge on the
    company’s website at www.amb.com or by contacting
    AMB Investor Relations
    at +1-415-394-9000.


 


    The company and ProLogis and their respective directors and
    executive officers and other members of management and employees
    may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies
    in respect of the proposed transaction. You can find information
    about the company’s executive officers and directors in the
    company’s definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on
    March 23, 2010. You can find information about
    ProLogis’ executive officers and directors in
    ProLogis’ definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on
    March 30, 2010. Additional information regarding the
    interests of such potential participants will be included in the
    joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant documents
    filed with the SEC if and when they become available. You may
    obtain free copies of these documents from the company or
    ProLogis using the sources indicated above.


 


    This document shall not constitute an offer to sell or the
    solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there
    be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such
    offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to
    registration or qualification under the securities laws of any
    such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made
    except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of
    Section 10 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended.




    
    13



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    BUSINESS
    RISKS


 


    The company’s operations involve various risks that could
    have adverse consequences to it. These risks include, among
    others:


 



    Risks of
    the Current Economic Environment


 



    Disruptions
    in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect
    the company’s business, results of operations, cash flows
    and financial condition.


 


    Global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented
    and challenging with tighter credit conditions, slower growth
    and recession in most major economies during the last two years.
    Although signs of recovery may exist, there are continued
    concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the
    availability and cost of credit, a declining real estate market,
    and geopolitical issues that contribute to increased market
    volatility and uncertain expectations for the global economy.
    These conditions, combined with declining business activity
    levels and consumer confidence, increased unemployment and
    volatile oil prices, contributed to unprecedented levels of
    volatility in the capital markets during the last two years. Any
    additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital
    and credit markets may adversely affect the company’s
    business, results of operations, cash flows and financial
    condition.


 


    As a result of these market conditions, the cost and
    availability of credit have been and may continue to be
    adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit
    spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally
    and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many
    lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some
    cases, cease to provide funding to businesses and consumers.
    These factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses
    and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global
    infrastructure spending. While the company currently believes
    that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its
    credit facilities in the near term, continued or recurring
    turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged
    declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect
    its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity
    and financial condition of its customers. If these market
    conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may
    limit the company’s ability, and the ability of its
    customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities, and access
    the credit markets to meet liquidity needs.


 


    If the long-term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall
    below its current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under its
    unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans may increase.
    In addition, if the long-term debt ratings of the operating
    partnership fall below investment grade, it may be unable to
    request borrowings in currencies other than U.S. dollars or
    Japanese Yen, as applicable; however, the lack of other currency
    borrowings does not affect its ability to fully draw down under
    the credit facilities or term loans. While the operating
    partnership currently does not expect its long-term debt ratings
    to fall below investment grade, in the event that its ratings do
    fall below those levels, it may be unable to exercise its
    options to extend the term of its credit facilities, and the
    loss of its ability to borrow in foreign currencies could affect
    its ability to optimally hedge its borrowings against foreign
    currency exchange rate changes. In addition, the company cannot
    assure you that additional, continuing or recurring long-term
    disruptions in the global economy and the continuation of
    tighter credit conditions among, and potential failures of,
    third-party financial institutions as a result of such
    disruptions will not have an adverse effect on the operating
    partnership’s borrowing capacity and liquidity position.
    The operating partnership’s access to funds under its
    credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the lenders
    that are parties to such facilities to meet their funding
    commitments to the operating partnership. The company cannot
    assure you that if one of the operating partnership’s
    lenders fails (some of whom are lenders under a number of the
    operating partnership’s facilities), the operating
    partnership will be successful in finding a replacement lender
    and, as a result, its borrowing capacity under the applicable
    facilities may be permanently reduced. If the company does not
    have sufficient cash flows and income from its operations to
    meet its financial commitments and those lenders are not able to
    meet their funding commitments to the operating partnership, the
    company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and
    financial condition could be adversely affected.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    Certain of the company’s third-party indebtedness is held
    by the company’s consolidated or unconsolidated joint
    ventures. In the event that the company’s joint venture
    partner is unable to meet its obligations under the joint
    venture agreements or the third-party debt agreements, the
    company may elect to pay its joint venture partner’s
    portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property
    or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to
    meet the joint venture’s debt obligations. In either case,
    the company could face a loss of income and asset value on the
    property.


 


    There can be no assurance that the markets will stabilize in the
    near future or that the company will choose to or be able to
    increase its levels of capital deployment at such time or ever.
    In addition, a continued increase in the cost of credit and
    inability to access the capital and credit markets may adversely
    impact the occupancy of the company’s properties, the
    disposition of its properties, private capital raising and
    contribution of properties to its co-investment ventures. For
    example, an inability to fully lease the company’s
    properties may result in such properties not meeting the
    company’s investment criteria for contributions to its
    co-investment ventures. If the company is unable to contribute
    completed development properties to its co-investment ventures
    or sell its completed development projects to third parties, the
    company will not be able to recognize gains from the
    contribution or sale of such properties and, as a result, the
    net income available to the parent company’s common
    stockholders and its funds from operations will decrease.
    Additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns
    and other similar factors that affect the company’s
    customers may adversely impact its business and financial
    condition. Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate
    markets has resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain
    real estate assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with
    respect to capitalization rates and valuations, among other
    things, which may add to the difficulty of buyers or the
    company’s co-investment ventures to obtain financing on
    favorable terms to acquire such properties or cause potential
    buyers to not complete acquisitions of such properties. The
    market uncertainty with respect to capitalization rates and real
    estate valuations also adversely impacts the company’s net
    asset value. In addition, the operating partnership may face
    difficulty in refinancing its mortgage debt, or may be unable to
    refinance such debt at all, if its property values significantly
    decline. Such a decline may also cause a default under the
    loan-to-value
    covenants in some of the company’s joint ventures’
    mortgage debt, which may require its joint ventures to re-margin
    or pay down a portion of the applicable debt. There can be no
    assurance, however, that in such an event, the company will be
    able to do so to prevent foreclosure.


 


    In the event that the company does not have sufficient cash
    available to it through its operations to continue operating its
    business as usual, the company may need to find alternative ways
    to increase its liquidity. Such alternatives may include,
    without limitation, divesting itself of properties, whether or
    not they otherwise meet the company’s strategic objectives
    to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing
    and selling its debt and equity in public or private
    transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into
    leases with its customers at lower rental rates or less than
    optimal terms; or entering into lease renewals with its existing
    customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. There
    can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to
    increase the company’s liquidity will be available to the
    company. Additionally, taking such measures to increase the
    company’s liquidity may adversely affect its business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, the company had
    $198.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. The
    company’s available cash and cash equivalents are held in
    accounts managed by third-party financial institutions and
    consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. The
    invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest
    solely in direct obligations of the government of the United
    States or in time deposits with certain financial institutions.
    To date, the company has experienced no loss or lack of access
    to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the company
    can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and
    cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in
    the financial markets.


 


    At any point in time, the company also has a significant amount
    of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with
    third-party financial institutions, and, as of December 31,
    2010, the amount in such deposits was approximately
    $171.3 million on a consolidated basis. These balances
    exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance
    limits. While the company monitors daily the cash balances in
    its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as
    appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the
    underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other
    adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, the
    company has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its
    operating accounts.




    
    15



Table of Contents






    The
    price per share of the parent company’s stock may decline
    or fluctuate significantly.


 


    The market price per share of the parent company’s common
    stock may decline or fluctuate significantly in response to many
    factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general market and economic conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated variations in the parent company’s
    operating results or dividends or the parent company’s
    payment of dividends in shares of its stock;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in its funds from operations or earnings estimates;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties or inability to access capital or extend or
    refinance existing debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    breaches of covenants and defaults under the operating
    partnership’s credit facilities and other debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    decreasing (or uncertainty in) real estate valuations, market
    rents and rental occupancy rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    our proposed merger transaction with ProLogis, including
    litigation related to the merger, adverse changes in
    ProLogis’ business or financial condition and any decreases
    in the market price of ProLogis stock;




 



     
        • 

    
    a change in analyst ratings or the operating partnership’s
    credit ratings;




 



     
        • 

    
    general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in
    interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead
    prospective purchasers of the parent company’s stock to
    demand a higher annual yield from future dividends;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse market reaction to any additional debt the operating
    partnership incurs in the future or any other capital market
    activity the company may conduct, including additional issuances
    of parent company stock;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse market reaction to the company’s strategic
    initiatives and their implementation;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in market valuations of similar companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    publication of research reports about the parent company or the
    real estate industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the
    attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other
    equity securities (including securities issued by other real
    estate-based companies);




 



     
        • 

    
    additions or departures of key management personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    actions by institutional stockholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    speculation in the press or investment community;




 



     
        • 

    
    terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which the
    company’s securities trade, possibly increasing market
    volatility and causing the further erosion of business and
    consumer confidence and spending;




 



     
        • 

    
    governmental regulatory action and changes in tax laws; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the realization of any of the other risk factors included in
    this report.





 


    Many of the factors listed above are beyond the company’s
    control. These factors may cause the market price of shares of
    the parent company’s common stock to decline, regardless of
    its financial condition, results of operations, business or its
    prospects.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Proposed Merger Transaction with
    ProLogis


 



    We
    will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual
    restrictions while the merger is pending that could adversely
    affect our financial results.


 


    Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees,
    suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on us. These
    uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and
    motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a
    period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers
    and others who deal with us to





    
    16



Table of Contents





    seek to change existing business relationships. Employee
    retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior
    to completion of the merger, as employees and prospective
    employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles
    with the combined company.


 


    The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the
    integration may place a significant burden on management and
    internal resources. Any significant diversion of management
    attention away from ongoing business and any difficulties
    encountered in the transition and integration process could
    affect our financial results.


 


    In addition, the merger agreement restricts us, without
    ProLogis’ consent, from making certain acquisitions and
    dispositions, from engaging in certain capital raising
    transactions and taking other specified actions while the merger
    is pending. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing
    attractive business opportunities and making other changes to
    our business prior to completion of the merger or termination of
    the merger agreement.


 



    Pending
    litigation against AMB and ProLogis could result in an
    injunction preventing completion of the merger and the payment
    of damages in the event the merger is completed and/or may
    adversely affect our company’s business, financial
    condition or results of operation before the merger and/or the
    combined company’s business, financial condition or results
    of operations following the merger.


 


    In connection with the merger, purported stockholders of
    ProLogis have filed two putative stockholder class action
    lawsuits against us and ProLogis, among others. Among other
    remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the merger. We may be
    subject to additional stockholder class action lawsuits during
    the pendency of the merger. If a final settlement is not
    reached, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the
    merger and result in substantial costs to us, including any
    costs associated with the indemnification of directors. The
    defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains
    unresolved may adversely affect our business, financial
    condition or results of operations
    and/or the
    combined company’s business, financial condition or results
    of operations.


 



    We may
    be unable to obtain in the anticipated timeframe, or at all,
    satisfaction of all conditions to complete the merger or, in
    order to do so, we may be required to comply with material
    restrictions or conditions that may negatively affect the
    combined company after the merger is completed or cause us to
    abandon the merger. Failure to complete the merger could
    negatively affect our future business and financial
    results.


 


    Completion of the merger is contingent upon, among other things,
    receipt of certain regulatory approvals and the absence of any
    injunction prohibiting the merger. All required regulatory
    authorizations, approvals or consents may not be obtained or may
    contain terms, conditions or restrictions that will be
    detrimental to the combined company after completion of the
    merger.


 


    The stockholders of both AMB and ProLogis must approve the
    merger transaction at special stockholder meetings to be held
    after our merger proxy and registration statement is effective.
    If the stockholders of either company do not approve the merger,
    the merger will not be consummated.


 


    In addition, satisfying the conditions to, and completion of,
    the merger may take longer than, and could cost more than, we
    expect. Any delay in completing or any additional conditions
    imposed in order to complete the merger may materially adversely
    affect the synergies and other benefits that we and ProLogis
    expect to achieve from the merger and the integration of our
    businesses.


 


    We may be unable to satisfy all the conditions to the merger or
    succeed in any litigation brought in connection with the merger.
    If the merger is not completed, our financial results may be
    adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks,
    including but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    payment to ProLogis of a termination fee of $210 million,
    as specified in the merger agreement, depending on the nature of
    the termination;




 



     
        • 

    
    payment of costs relating to the merger, whether or not the
    merger is completed; and




 



     
        • 

    
    being subject to litigation related to any failure to complete
    the merger.







    
    17



Table of Contents




 


    Any delay or inability to satisfy all conditions to complete the
    merger, or failure to complete the merger could negatively
    affect our future business, financial condition or results of
    operation.


 



    If
    completed, the merger may not achieve its intended results, and
    we and ProLogis may be unable to successfully integrate our
    operations.


 


    We and ProLogis entered into the merger agreement with the
    expectation that the merger will result in various benefits,
    including, among other things, cost savings and operating
    efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger
    is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the
    businesses of AMB and ProLogis can be integrated in an efficient
    and effective manner.


 


    If the merger is completed, it is possible that the integration
    process could take longer than anticipated and could result in
    the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each
    company’s ongoing businesses, processes and systems or
    inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices,
    policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could
    adversely affect the combined company’s ability to achieve
    the anticipated benefits of the merger. The combined
    company’s results of operations could also be adversely
    affected by any issues attributable to either company’s
    operations that arise or are based on events or actions that
    occur prior to the closing of the merger. The companies may have
    difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures
    and management philosophies. The integration process is subject
    to a number of uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that
    the anticipated benefits will be realized or, if realized, the
    timing of their realization. Failure to achieve these
    anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or
    decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely
    affect the combined company’s future business, results of
    operations, financial condition and prospects.


 



    Debt
    Financing Risks


 



    The
    company faces risks associated with the use of debt to fund its
    business activities, including refinancing and interest rate
    risks.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had
    total debt outstanding of $3.3 billion. As of
    December 31, 2010, the parent company guaranteed
    $1.7 billion of the operating partnership’s
    obligations with respect to the senior debt securities
    referenced in the parent company’s financial statements.
    The operating partnership is subject to risks normally
    associated with debt financing, including the risk that its cash
    flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal
    and interest. It is likely that the operating partnership will
    need to refinance at least a portion of its outstanding debt as
    it matures. There is a risk that the operating partnership may
    not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any
    refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of its
    existing debt. If the operating partnership is unable to
    refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay
    them with proceeds of other capital transactions, then the
    operating partnership expects that its cash flow will not be
    sufficient in all years to repay all such maturing debt and to
    pay distributions to its unitholders, including the parent
    company, which, in turn, will be unable to pay cash dividends to
    its stockholders. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or
    other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher
    interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense
    relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. Higher
    interest rates on newly incurred debt may negatively impact the
    operating partnership as well. If interest rates increase, the
    operating partnership’s interest costs and overall costs of
    capital will increase, which could adversely affect its
    financial condition, results of operation and cash flow, the
    market price of the parent company’s stock, the operating
    partnership’s ability to pay principal and interest on its
    debt and to pay distributions to its unitholders, the parent
    company’s ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders
    and the operating partnership’s capital deployment
    activity. In addition, there may be circumstances that will
    require the operating partnership to obtain amendments or
    waivers to provisions in its credit facilities or other
    financings. There can be no assurance that the operating
    partnership will be able to obtain necessary amendments or
    waivers at all or without significant expense. In such case, the
    operating partnership may not be able to fund its business
    activities as planned, within budget or at all.


 


    In addition, if the company mortgages one or more of its
    properties to secure payment of indebtedness and the company is
    unable to meet mortgage payments, then the property could be
    foreclosed upon or transferred to the lender with a consequent
    loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of
    the company’s properties could adversely affect its
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay distributions to the





    
    18



Table of Contents





    operating partnership’s unitholders and cash dividends to
    the parent company’s stockholders, and the market price of
    the parent company’s stock.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, the company had outstanding bank
    guarantees in the amount of $0.3 million used to secure
    contingent obligations, primarily obligations under development
    and purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2010, the
    company also guaranteed $58.6 million and
    $83.5 million on outstanding loans for five of its
    consolidated co-investment ventures and three of its
    unconsolidated co-investment ventures, respectively. Also, the
    company has entered into contribution agreements with certain of
    its unconsolidated co-investment venture funds. These
    contribution agreements require the company to make additional
    capital contributions to the applicable co-investment venture
    fund upon certain defaults by the co-investment venture of its
    debt obligations to the lenders. Such additional capital
    contributions will cover all or part of the applicable
    co-investment venture’s debt obligation and may be greater
    than the company’s share of the co-investment
    venture’s debt obligation or the value of the
    company’s share of any property securing such debt. The
    company’s contribution obligations under these agreements
    will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the
    fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the
    debt and obtained by the lender upon default. The company’s
    potential obligations under these contribution agreements were
    $260.6 million as of December 31, 2010. The company
    intends to continue to guarantee debt of its unconsolidated
    co-investment venture funds and make additional contributions to
    its unconsolidated co-investment venture funds in connection
    with property contributions to the funds. Such payment
    obligations under such guarantees and contribution obligations
    under such contribution agreements, if required to be paid,
    could be of a magnitude that could adversely affect the
    company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the parent
    company’s stockholders and distributions to the operating
    partnership’s unitholders and the market price of the
    parent company’s stock.


 



    Adverse
    changes in the company’s credit ratings could negatively
    affect its financing activity.


 


    The credit ratings of the operating partnership’s senior
    unsecured long-term debt and the parent company’s preferred
    stock are based on its operating performance, liquidity and
    leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors
    employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses
    of the company. The company’s credit ratings can affect the
    amount of capital it can access, as well as the terms and
    pricing of any debt the operating partnership may incur. In
    addition, the announcement of the proposed merger transaction
    with ProLogis resulted in the company being placed on a negative
    credit rating watch list and because ProLogis’ credit
    rating is lower than the company’s, the credit rating of
    the combined company may be adversely affected if the proposed
    merger is completed. There can be no assurance that the company
    will be able to maintain its current credit ratings, and in the
    event its current credit ratings are downgraded, the company
    would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter
    difficulty in obtaining additional financing. Also, a downgrade
    in the company’s credit ratings may trigger additional
    payments or other negative consequences under its current and
    future credit facilities and debt instruments. For example, if
    the operating partnership’s credit ratings of its senior
    unsecured long-term debt are downgraded to below investment
    grade levels, the operating partnership may not be able to
    obtain or maintain extensions on certain of its existing debt.
    Adverse changes in the operating partnership’s credit
    ratings could negatively impact its refinancing and other
    capital market activities, its ability to manage its debt
    maturities, its future growth, its financial condition, the
    market price of the parent company’s stock, and its
    development and acquisition activity.


 



    Covenants
    in the operating partnership’s debt agreements could
    adversely affect its financial condition.


 


    The terms of the operating partnership’s credit agreements
    and other indebtedness require that it complies with a number of
    financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service
    coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage.
    These covenants may limit flexibility in the operating
    partnership’s operations, and its failure to comply with
    these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt
    agreement even if it has satisfied its payment obligations. As
    of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had certain
    non-recourse, secured loans, which are cross-collateralized by
    multiple properties. If the operating partnership defaults on
    any of these loans, it may then be required to repay such
    indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to
    avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties
    within the applicable pool. Foreclosure on the operating
    partnership’s properties, or its inability to refinance its
    loans on favorable terms, could adversely impact its financial





    
    19



Table of Contents





    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    cash dividends to the parent company’s stockholders or
    distributions to the operating partnership’s unitholders,
    and the market price of the parent company’s stock. In
    addition, the operating partnership’s credit facilities and
    senior debt securities contain certain cross-default provisions,
    which are triggered in the event that its other material
    indebtedness is in default. These cross-default provisions may
    require the operating partnership to repay or restructure the
    credit facilities and the senior debt securities in addition to
    any mortgage or other debt that is in default, which could
    adversely affect the operating partnership’s financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    distributions to its unitholders and the parent company’s
    ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market
    price of its stock.


 



    Failure
    to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rates may
    adversely affect results of operations.


 


    The company seeks to manage its exposure to exchange and
    interest rate volatility by using exchange and interest rate
    hedging arrangements, such as cap agreements and swap
    agreements. These agreements involve risks, such as the risk
    that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations
    under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be
    effective in reducing the company’s exposure to exchange or
    interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such
    agreements are not legally enforceable. Hedging may reduce
    overall returns on the company’s investments. Failure to
    hedge effectively against exchange and interest rate changes may
    materially adversely affect the company’s results of
    operations.


 



    The
    company is dependent on external sources of
    capital.


 


    In order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, the
    parent company is required each year to distribute to its
    stockholders at least 90% of its real estate investment trust
    taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid
    deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and is subject
    to tax to the extent its income is not fully distributed. While
    historically the parent company has satisfied these distribution
    requirements by making cash distributions to its stockholders,
    the parent company may choose to satisfy these requirements by
    making distributions of cash or other property, including, in
    limited circumstances, its own stock. For distributions with
    respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31,
    2011, and in some cases declared as late as December 31,
    2012, the parent company can satisfy up to 90% of the
    distribution requirements discussed above through the
    distribution of shares of its stock if certain conditions are
    met. Assuming the parent company continues to satisfy these
    distribution requirements with cash, the parent company and the
    operating partnership may not be able to fund all future capital
    needs, including acquisition and development activities, from
    cash retained from operations and may have to rely on
    third-party sources of capital. Further, in order to maintain
    the parent company’s real estate investment trust status
    and avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes, the
    parent company, through the operating partnership, may need to
    borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the real estate
    investment trust distribution requirements even if the
    then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these
    borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from
    differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and
    inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the
    effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of
    reserves or required debt or amortization payments. The
    company’s ability to access private debt and equity capital
    on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of
    factors, including general market conditions, the market’s
    perception of the company’s growth potential, its current
    and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the
    market price of its securities.


 



    The
    operating partnership could incur more debt, increasing its debt
    service.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership’s
    share of total
    debt-to-its
    share of total market capitalization ratio was 41.3%. The
    operating partnership’s definition of “the operating
    partnership’s share of total market capitalization” is
    the operating partnership’s share of total debt plus
    preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. See
    footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table contained in
    Part II, Item 7: “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for
    the operating partnership’s definitions of “market
    equity” and “the operating partnership’s share of
    total debt.” As this ratio percentage increases directly
    with a decrease in the market price per share of the parent
    company’s capital stock, an unstable market environment
    will impact this ratio in a volatile manner. There can also





    
    20



Table of Contents





    be no assurance that the operating partnership would not become
    more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service
    that could adversely affect the cash available for distribution
    to its unitholders and, in turn, the cash available to
    distribute to the parent company’s stockholders.
    Furthermore, if the operating partnership becomes more highly
    leveraged, the operating partnership may not be in compliance
    with the debt covenants contained in the agreements governing
    its co-investment ventures, which could adversely impact its
    private capital business.


 



    Other
    Real Estate Industry Risks


 



    The
    company’s performance and value are subject to general
    economic conditions and risks associated with its real estate
    assets.


 


    The investment returns available from equity investments in real
    estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital
    appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the
    expenses incurred in connection with the properties. If the
    company’s properties do not generate income sufficient to
    meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital
    expenditures, then the operating partnership’s ability to
    pay distributions to its unitholders (including the parent
    company) and, in turn, the parent company’s ability to pay
    cash dividends to its stockholders could be adversely affected.
    In addition, there are significant expenditures associated with
    an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real
    estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not
    decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property.
    Income from, and the value of, the company’s properties may
    be adversely affected by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in the general economic climate, such as the current
    one, including diminished access to or availability of capital
    (including difficulties in financing, refinancing and extending
    existing debt) and rising inflation (see “Risks of the
    Current Economic Environment”);




 



     
        • 

    
    local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand
    for industrial space;




 



     
        • 

    
    the attractiveness of the company’s properties to potential
    customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition from other properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    the company’s ability to provide adequate maintenance and
    insurance;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased operating costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased cost of compliance with regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the potential for liability under applicable laws (including
    changes in tax laws); and




 



     
        • 

    
    disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political,
    regulatory or other factors, including terrorism.





 


    In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the
    United States and in other countries, rising interest rates,
    diminished access to or availability of capital or declining
    demand for real estate, may result in a general decrease in
    rents, an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases
    or greater difficulty in financing the company’s
    acquisition and development activities, which would adversely
    affect the company’s financial condition and results of
    operations. Future terrorist attacks may result in declining
    economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the
    value of the company’s properties. To the extent that
    future attacks impact the company’s customers, their
    businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including
    their ability to continue to honor their existing leases.


 


    The company’s properties are concentrated predominantly in
    the industrial real estate sector. As a result of this
    concentration, the company feels the impact of an economic
    downturn in this sector more acutely than if the company’s
    portfolio included other property types.


 



    The
    company may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or
    relet space as leases expire.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, on an owned and managed basis, the
    company’s occupancy average was 91.2%
    year-to-date
    and the leases on 16.4% of the company’s industrial
    properties (based on annualized base rent) will expire on or
    prior to December 31, 2011. The company derives most of its
    income from rent received from its customers. Accordingly, the
    company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flow and its ability to pay





    
    21



Table of Contents





    dividends to the parent company’s stockholders and
    distributions to the operating partnership’s unitholders,
    and the market price of the parent company’s stock could be
    adversely affected if the company is unable to lease vacant
    space at favorable rents or terms or at all and to promptly
    relet or renew expiring leases or if the rental rates upon
    leasing, renewal or reletting are significantly lower than
    expected. There can be no assurance that the company will be
    able to lease its vacant space, renew its expiring leases,
    increase its occupancy to its historical averages or generally
    realize the potential of its currently low-yielding assets
    (including the build-out and leasing of its development
    platform). Periods of economic slowdown or recession are likely
    to adversely affect the company’s leasing activities. If a
    customer experiences a downturn in its business or other type of
    financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental
    payments or renew its lease. Further, the company’s ability
    to rent space and the rents that it can charge are impacted, not
    only by customer demand, but by the number of other properties
    the company has to compete with to appeal to customers.


 



    The
    company could be adversely affected if a significant number of
    its customers are unable to meet their lease
    obligations.


 


    The company’s results of operations, distributable cash
    flow and the value of the parent company’s stock would be
    adversely affected if a significant number of the company’s
    customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. In the
    current economic environment, it is likely that customer
    bankruptcies will increase. If a customer seeks the protection
    of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, such customer’s
    lease may be terminated in the process and result in a reduction
    of cash flow to the company. In the event of a significant
    number of lease defaults
    and/or
    tenant bankruptcies, the company’s cash flow may not be
    sufficient to pay distributions to the operating
    partnership’s unitholders and cash dividends to the parent
    company’s stockholders and repay maturing debt and any
    other obligations. As of December 31, 2010, on an owned and
    managed basis, the company did not have any single customer
    account for annualized base rent revenues greater than 3.1%.
    However, in the event of lease defaults by a significant number
    of the company’s customers, the company may incur
    substantial costs in enforcing its rights as landlord.


 



    Declining
    real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely
    affect the company’s earnings and financial
    condition.


 


    The economic downturn has generally resulted in lower real
    estate valuations, which has required the company to recognize
    real estate impairment charges on its assets. The company
    conducts a comprehensive review of all real estate asset classes
    in accordance with its policy of accounting for the impairment
    or disposal of long-lived assets, which indicates that asset
    values should be analyzed whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may
    not be fully recoverable. The intended use of an asset, either
    held for sale or held for the long term, can significantly
    impact how impairment is measured. If an asset is intended to be
    held for the long term, the impairment analysis is based on a
    two-step test. The first test measures estimated expected future
    cash flows over the holding period, including a residual value
    (undiscounted and without interest charges), against the
    carrying value of the property. If the asset fails the first
    test, then the asset carrying value is measured against the
    estimated fair value from a market participant standpoint, with
    the excess of the asset’s carrying value over the estimated
    fair value recognized as an impairment charge to earnings. If an
    asset is intended to be sold, impairment is tested based on a
    one-step test, comparing the carrying value to the estimated
    fair value less costs to sell. The estimation of expected future
    net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions
    regarding current and future economic and market conditions and
    the availability of capital. The company determines the
    estimated fair values based on assumptions regarding rental
    rates, costs to complete,
    lease-up and
    holding periods, as well as sales prices or contribution values.
    The company also utilizes the knowledge of its regional teams
    and the recent valuations of its two open-ended funds, which
    contain a large, geographically diversified pool of assets, all
    of which are subject to third-party appraisals on at least an
    annual basis. As a result of changing market conditions, the
    company may need to re-evaluate the carrying value of its
    investments and recognize real estate impairment losses on
    certain of its investments.


 


    The principal trigger which has led to impairment charges in the
    recent past was the severe economic deterioration in some
    markets resulting in a decrease in leasing and rental rates,
    rising vacancies and an increase in capitalization rates.
    Impairments may be necessary in the future in the event that
    market conditions deteriorate and





    
    22



Table of Contents





    impact the factors used to estimate fair value, which may
    include impairments relating to the company’s
    unconsolidated real estate as well as impairments relating to
    the company’s investments in its unconsolidated
    co-investment ventures. Investments in unconsolidated joint
    ventures are presented under the equity method. The equity
    method is used when the company has the ability to exercise
    significant influence over operating and financial policies of
    the joint venture but does not have control of the joint
    venture. Under the equity method, these investments are
    initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are
    subsequently adjusted to reflect the company’s
    proportionate share of net earnings or losses of the joint
    venture, distributions received, contributions, deferred gains
    from the contribution of properties and certain other
    adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there
    may have been a loss in value of an equity investment, the
    company evaluates the investment for impairment by estimating
    the company’s ability to recover its investment or if the
    loss in value is other than temporary. To evaluate whether an
    impairment is other than temporary, the company considers
    relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the period of
    time in any unrealized loss position, the likelihood of a future
    recovery, and the company’s positive intent and ability to
    hold the investment until the forecasted recovery. If the
    company determines the loss in value is other than temporary,
    the company recognizes an impairment charge to reflect the
    investment at fair value. Fair value is determined through
    various valuation techniques, including, but not limited to,
    discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third
    party appraisals. During the year ended December 31, 2010,
    the company did not record any impairment on its investments in
    unconsolidated co-investment ventures. There can be no assurance
    that the estimates and assumptions the company uses to assess
    impairments are accurate and will reflect actual results. A
    worsening real estate market may cause the company to reevaluate
    the assumptions used in its impairment analysis and its intent
    to hold, sell, develop or contribute properties. Impairment
    charges could adversely affect the company’s financial
    condition, results of operations and its ability to pay cash
    dividends to the parent company’s stockholders and
    distributions to the operating partnership’s unitholders
    and the market price of the parent company’s stock.


 



    The
    company’s performance and value are impacted by the local
    economic conditions of and the risks associated with doing
    business in California.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, the company’s industrial
    properties located in California represented 21.1% of the
    aggregate square footage of its industrial operating properties
    and 19.7% of its industrial annualized base rent, on an owned
    and managed basis. The company’s revenue from, and the
    value of, its properties located in California may be affected
    by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or
    reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic
    climate. Business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns,
    changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact
    California’s economic climate. Because of the number of
    properties the company has located in California, a downturn in
    California’s economy or real estate conditions could
    adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to
    its stockholders and the market price of its stock.


 


    A number of the company’s properties are located in areas
    that are known to be subject to earthquake activity.
    U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include
    properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and
    Seattle. The company’s largest concentration of such
    properties is in California where, on an owned and managed
    basis, as of December 31, 2010, the company had 277
    industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
    29.9 million square feet, on an owned and managed basis.
    International properties located in active seismic areas include
    Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and Mexico City, Mexico. The company
    carries earthquake insurance on all of its properties located in
    areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to
    coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are
    commercially reasonable. The company evaluates its earthquake
    insurance coverage annually in light of current industry
    practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants.


 



    The
    company may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous
    terms or at all or acquisitions may not perform as it
    expects.


 


    On a strategic and selective basis, the company may acquire
    U.S. or foreign properties, portfolios of properties or
    interests in property-owning or real-estate related entities and
    platforms, which could include large acquisitions that could
    increase the company’s size and alter its capital and
    organizational structure. Such acquisitions entail various
    risks, including the risks that the company’s investments
    may not perform or be accretive to the company’s





    
    23



Table of Contents





    value as it expects, that it may be unable to quickly and
    efficiently integrate its new acquisitions into its existing
    operations or, if applicable, contribute the acquired properties
    to a joint venture, that portfolio acquisitions may include
    non-core assets, that the new investments may come with
    unexpected liabilities and that the company’s cost
    estimates for developing or bringing an acquired property up to
    market standards may prove inaccurate. The company may not be
    able to acquire assets at values above the company’s cost
    of capital. In addition, the company expects to finance future
    acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under its
    unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from private or public
    equity or debt offerings (including issuances of operating
    partnership units) and proceeds from property divestitures,
    which may not be available at favorable pricing or at all and
    which could adversely affect the company’s cash flow.
    Further, the company faces significant competition for
    attractive investment opportunities from other real estate
    investors, including both publicly-traded real estate investment
    trusts and private institutional investors and funds. This
    competition increases as quality investment opportunities arise
    at favorable pricing and investments in real estate become
    increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment.
    As a result of competition, the company may be unable to make
    additional investments as it desires or the purchase price of
    the investments may be significantly elevated. Also, the company
    may incur significant transaction-related costs in exploring and
    pursuing potential transactions it may not consummate. Any of
    the above risks could adversely affect the company’s
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the
    ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company’s
    stockholders and distributions to the operating
    partnership’s unitholders, and the market price of the
    parent company’s stock.


 



    The
    company is subject to risks and liabilities in connection with
    forming new joint ventures, investing in new or existing joint
    ventures, attracting third party investment and owning
    properties through joint ventures and other investment
    vehicles.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, approximately 91.4 million
    square feet of the company’s properties were held through
    joint ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with
    third parties. The company’s organizational documents do
    not limit the amount of available funds that it may invest in
    partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures, and
    the company may and currently intends to develop and acquire
    properties through joint ventures, limited liability companies,
    partnerships with and investments in other entities when
    warranted by the circumstances. However, there can be no
    assurance that the company will be able to form new joint
    ventures, attract third party investment or make additional
    investments in new or existing joint ventures, successfully
    develop or acquire properties through such joint ventures, or
    realize value from such joint ventures. The company’s
    inability to do so may have an adverse effect on the
    company’s growth, its earnings and the market price of the
    parent company’s securities.


 


    Joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over
    major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in
    the joint venture investments. Joint venture investments involve
    certain risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    if the company’s joint venture partners go bankrupt, then
    the company and any other remaining partners may generally
    remain liable for the investment’s liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    if the company’s joint venture partners fail to fund their
    share of any required capital contributions, then the company
    may choose to or be required to contribute such capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    the company may, under certain circumstances, guarantee all or a
    portion of the joint venture’s debt, which may require the
    company to pay an amount greater than its investment in the
    joint venture;




 



     
        • 

    
    the company’s joint venture partners might have economic or
    other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the
    company’s business interests or goals that would affect the
    company’s ability to operate the property;




 



     
        • 

    
    the company’s joint venture partners may have the power to
    act contrary to the company’s instructions, requests,
    policies or objectives, including its current policy with
    respect to maintaining the parent company’s qualification
    as a real estate investment trust;




 



     
        • 

    
    the joint venture or other governing agreements often restrict
    the transfer of an interest in the joint venture or may
    otherwise restrict the company’s ability to sell the
    interest when it desires or on advantageous terms;







    
    24



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the company’s relationships with its joint venture partners
    are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or
    dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event,
    the company may not continue to own or operate the interests or
    assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such
    interests or assets at an above-market price to continue
    ownership;




 



     
        • 

    
    disputes between the company and its joint venture partners may
    result in litigation or arbitration that would increase the
    company’s expenses and prevent its officers and directors
    from focusing their time and effort on the company’s
    business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the
    applicable joint venture to additional risk; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the company may in certain circumstances be liable for the
    actions of its joint venture partners.





 


    The company generally seeks to maintain sufficient control or
    influence over its joint ventures to permit it to achieve its
    business objectives; however, the company may not be able to do
    so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described
    above could adversely affect the company’s financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    cash dividends to the parent company’s stockholders and
    distributions to the operating partnership’s unitholders
    and the market price of the parent company’s stock.


 



    The
    company may not be successful in contributing properties to its
    co-investment ventures.


 


    The company may contribute or sell properties to certain of its
    co-investment ventures on a
    case-by-case
    basis. However, the company may fail to contribute properties to
    its co-investment ventures due to such factors as its inability
    to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the
    investment criteria of such ventures, or its co-investment
    ventures’ inability to access debt and equity capital to
    pay for property contributions or their allocation of available
    capital to cover other capital requirements such as forward
    commitments, loan maturities and future redemptions. If the
    co-investment ventures are unable to raise additional capital on
    favorable terms after available capital is depleted or if the
    value of properties to be contributed or sold to the
    co-investment ventures are appraised at less than the cost of
    such properties, then such contributions or sales could be
    delayed or prevented, adversely affecting the company’s
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company’s
    stockholders and distributions to the operating
    partnership’s unitholders, and the market price of the
    parent company’s stock.


 


    A delay in these contributions could result in adverse effects
    on the company’s liquidity and on its ability to meet
    projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period,
    which could have an adverse effect on the company’s results
    of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of its
    securities.


 



    The
    company may be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous
    terms or at all.


 


    The company may divest itself of properties, which are currently
    in its portfolio, are held for sale or which otherwise do not
    meet its strategic objectives. The company may, in certain
    circumstances, divest itself of properties to increase its
    liquidity or to capitalize on opportunities that arise. The
    company’s ability to dispose of properties on advantageous
    terms or at all depends on factors beyond its control, including
    competition from other sellers, current market conditions
    (including capitalization rates applicable to its properties)
    and the availability of financing for potential buyers of its
    properties. If the company is unable to dispose of properties on
    favorable terms or at all or redeploy the proceeds of property
    divestitures in accordance with its investment strategy, then
    the company’s financial condition, results of operations,
    cash flow, ability to meet its debt obligations in a timely
    manner and the ability to pay cash dividends and distributions
    could be adversely affected, which could also negatively impact
    the market price of the parent company’s stock.


 



    Actions
    by the company’s competitors may affect the company’s
    ability to divest properties and may decrease or prevent
    increases of the occupancy and rental rates of the
    company’s properties.


 


    The company competes with other owners, operators and developers
    of real estate, some of which own properties similar to the
    company’s properties in the same submarkets in which the
    company’s properties are located. If the company’s
    competitors sell assets similar to assets the company intends to
    divest in the same markets
    and/or at
    valuations below the company’s valuations for comparable
    assets, the company may be unable to divest its





    
    25



Table of Contents





    assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. In
    addition, if the company’s competitors offer space at
    rental rates below current market rates or below the rental
    rates the company currently charges its customers, the company
    may lose potential customers, and the company may be pressured
    to reduce its rental rates below those the company currently
    charges in order to retain customers when its customers’
    leases expire. As a result, the company’s financial
    condition, cash flow, cash available for distributions and
    dividends and, trading price of the parent company’s stock
    and ability to satisfy the operating partnership’s debt
    service obligations could be materially adversely affected.


 



    The
    company may be unable to complete renovation, development and
    redevelopment projects on advantageous terms or at
    all.


 


    On a strategic and selective basis, the company may develop,
    renovate and redevelop properties. After the financial and real
    estate markets stabilize, the company may expand its investment
    in its development, renovation and redevelopment business and
    complete the build-out and leasing of its development platform.
    The company may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties
    in newly formed development joint ventures into which the
    company may contribute assets. The real estate development,
    renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks
    that could adversely affect the company’s financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    cash dividends to the parent company’s stockholders and
    distributions to the operating partnership’s unitholders
    and the market price of the parent company’s stock, which
    include the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the company may not be able to obtain financing for development
    projects on favorable terms or at all and complete construction
    on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt
    service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the
    properties, generating cash flow and, if applicable,
    contributing properties to a joint venture;




 



     
        • 

    
    the company may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays
    in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building,
    occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing
    cash flow below budgeted amounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    the company may not be able to lease properties on favorable
    terms or at all;




 



     
        • 

    
    construction costs, total investment amounts and the
    company’s share of remaining funding may exceed the
    company’s estimates and projects may not be completed,
    delivered or stabilized as planned;




 



     
        • 

    
    the company may not be able to attract third party investment in
    new development joint ventures or sufficient customer demand for
    its product;




 



     
        • 

    
    the company may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced
    value created by its value-added conversion projects on its
    expected timetables or at all;




 



     
        • 

    
    the company may not be able to successfully form development
    joint ventures or capture value from such newly formed ventures;




 



     
        • 

    
    the company may fail to contribute properties to its
    co-investment ventures due to such factors as its inability to
    acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment
    criteria of such ventures, or its
    co-investment
    ventures’ inability to access debt and equity capital to
    pay for property contributions or their allocation of available
    capital to cover other capital requirements such as future
    redemptions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the company may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if
    there is public opposition to its activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment
    activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically
    require a significant amount of management’s time and
    attention, diverting their attention from the company’s
    day-to-day
    operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    upon completion of construction, the company may not be able to
    obtain, on advantageous terms or at all, permanent financing for
    activities that it has financed through construction loans.







    
    26



Table of Contents




 



    Real
    estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult
    for the company to respond promptly to changing
    conditions.


 


    Real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of
    assets. Further, the Internal Revenue Code regulates the number
    of properties that the parent company, as a real estate
    investment trust, can dispose of in a year, their tax bases and
    the cost of improvements that the parent company makes to the
    properties. In addition, a portion of the properties held
    directly or indirectly by certain of the company’s
    subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for limited
    partnership units in the applicable partnership. The
    contribution agreements for such properties may contain
    restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions
    of these properties, or a portion thereof, which result in a
    taxable transaction for specified periods, following the
    contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership.
    These limitations may affect the company’s ability to sell
    properties. This lack of liquidity and the Internal Revenue Code
    restrictions may limit the company’s ability to vary its
    portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other
    conditions and, as a result, could adversely affect the
    company’s financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flow, the market price of the parent company’s stock,
    the ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company’s
    stockholders and distributions to the operating
    partnership’s unitholders, and the operating
    partnership’s ability to access capital necessary to meet
    its debt payments and other obligations.


 



    Risks
    Associated with the Company’s International
    Business


 



    The
    company’s international activities are subject to special
    risks and it may not be able to effectively manage its
    international business.


 


    The company acquired and developed, and may continue to acquire
    and develop on a strategic and selective basis, properties and
    operating platforms outside the United States. Because local
    markets affect the company’s operations, the company’s
    international investments are subject to economic fluctuations
    in the international locations in which the company invests.
    Access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on
    favorable terms or at all, in certain locations. In addition,
    the company’s international operations are subject to the
    usual risks of doing business abroad such as revisions in tax
    treaties or other laws and regulations, including those
    governing the taxation of the company’s international
    revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and, in certain
    parts of the world, uncertainty over property rights, terrorist
    or gang-related activities, civil unrest and political
    instability. The company cannot predict the likelihood that any
    of these developments may occur. Further, the company has
    entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements with
    non-U.S. entities
    that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute
    resolution in the courts of, another country or region. The
    company cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would
    provide it with an effective and efficient means of resolving
    disputes that may arise. Further, even if the company is able to
    obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court
    proceeding, the company could have difficulty enforcing any
    award or judgment on a timely basis or at all.


 


    The company also has offices in many countries outside the
    United States and, as a result, the company’s operations
    may be subject to risks that may limit its ability to
    effectively establish, staff and manage its offices outside the
    United States, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    differing employment practices and labor issues;




 



     
        • 

    
    local business and cultural factors that differ from the
    company’s usual standards and practices;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between
    jurisdictions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    health concerns.





 


    The company’s global growth (including growth in new
    regions in the United States) subjects the company to certain
    risks, including risks associated with funding increasing
    headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective
    controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new
    offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the
    Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, payroll expenses are
    paid in local currencies and, therefore, the company is exposed
    to risks associated with fluctuations in the rate of exchange
    between the U.S. dollar and these currencies.


 


    Further, the company’s business has grown rapidly and may
    continue to grow in a strategic and deliberate manner. If the
    proposed merger with ProLogis is completed, the risks associated
    with the combined company’s





    
    27



Table of Contents





    international business will be enhanced due to the combined
    company’s larger international presence. If the company
    fails to effectively manage its international growth or
    integrate the combined company’s international operations
    in the event the merger is completed, then the company’s
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company’s
    stockholders and distributions to the operating
    partnership’s unitholders, and the market price of the
    parent company’s stock could be adversely affected.


 



    The
    company is subject to risks from potential fluctuations in
    exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the
    other countries in which it invests.


 


    The company may pursue growth opportunities in international
    markets on a strategic and selective basis. As the company
    invests in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the
    national currency, the company is subject to international
    currency risks from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates
    between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of those other
    countries. A significant depreciation in the value of the
    currency of one or more countries where the company has a
    significant investment may materially affect its results of
    operations. The company attempts to mitigate any such effects by
    borrowing in the currency of the country in which it is
    investing and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place
    international currency put option contracts to hedge exchange
    rate fluctuations. For leases denominated in international
    currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments
    to manage the international currency exchange risk. The company
    cannot assure you, however, that its efforts will successfully
    neutralize all international currency risks.


 



    Acquired
    properties may be located in new markets, where the company may
    face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar
    market.


 


    The company has acquired and may continue to acquire properties,
    portfolios of properties, interests in real-estate related
    entities or platforms on a strategic and selective basis in
    international markets that are new to it. When the company
    acquires properties or platforms located in these markets, it
    may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or
    understanding of the local economy, forging new business
    relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local
    government and permitting procedures. The company works to
    mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and
    associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no
    guarantee that all such risks will be eliminated.


 



    General
    Business Risks


 



    The
    company faces risks associated with short-term liquid
    investments.


 


    The company continues to have significant cash balances that it
    invests in a variety of short-term investments that are intended
    to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of
    liquidity while providing current income. From time to time,
    these investments may include (either directly or indirectly):


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    direct obligations issued by the U.S. Treasury;




 



     
        • 

    
    obligations issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government or
    its agencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    taxable municipal securities;




 



     
        • 

    
    obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks and
    thrifts;




 



     
        • 

    
    commercial paper and other instruments consisting of short-term
    U.S. dollar denominated obligations issued by corporations
    and banks;




 



     
        • 

    
    repurchase agreements collateralized by corporate and
    asset-backed obligations;




 



     
        • 

    
    both registered and unregistered money market funds; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other highly rated short-term securities.





 


    Investments in these securities and funds are not insured
    against loss of principal. Under certain circumstances the
    company may be required to redeem all or part of its investment,
    and its right to redeem some or all of its investment may be
    delayed or suspended. In addition, there is no guarantee that
    the company’s investments in these





    
    28



Table of Contents





    securities or funds will be redeemable at par value. A decline
    in the value of the company’s investment or a delay or
    suspension of its right to redeem may have an adverse effect on
    the company’s results of operations or financial condition.


 



    The
    company may experience losses that its insurance does not
    cover.


 


    The company carries commercial liability, property and rental
    loss insurance covering all the properties that it owns and
    manages in types and amounts that it believes are adequate and
    appropriate given the relative risks applicable to the property,
    the cost of coverage and industry practice. Certain losses, such
    as those due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic
    activity, may be insured subject to certain limitations,
    including large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits.
    Although the company has obtained coverage for certain acts of
    terrorism, with policy specifications and insured limits that
    the company considers commercially reasonable given the cost and
    availability of such coverage, the company cannot be certain
    that it will be able to renew coverage on comparable terms or
    collect under such policies. In addition, there are other types
    of losses, such as those from riots, bio-terrorism or acts of
    war, that are not generally insured in the company’s
    industry because it is not economically feasible to do so. The
    company may incur material losses in excess of insurance
    proceeds and it may not be able to continue to obtain insurance
    at commercially reasonable rates. Given current market
    conditions, there can also be no assurance that the insurance
    companies providing the company’s coverage will not fail or
    have difficulty meeting their coverage obligations to the
    company. Furthermore, the company cannot assure you that its
    insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products
    with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. If
    the company experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds
    its insured limits with respect to one or more of its properties
    or if the company’s insurance companies fail to meet their
    coverage commitments to it in the event of an insured loss, then
    the company could lose the capital invested in the damaged
    properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those
    properties and, if there is recourse debt, then the company
    would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial
    obligations related to the properties. Moreover, as the general
    partner of the operating partnership, the parent company
    generally will be liable for all of the operating
    partnership’s unsatisfied recourse obligations, including
    any obligations incurred by the operating partnership as the
    general partner of
    co-investment
    ventures. Any such losses or higher insurance costs could
    adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to
    the parent company’s stockholders and distributions to the
    operating partnership’s unitholders and the market price of
    the parent company’s stock.


 


    A number of the company’s properties are located in areas
    that are known to be subject to earthquake activity.
    U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include
    properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and
    Seattle. The company’s largest concentration of such
    properties is in California where, on an owned and managed
    basis, as of December 31, 2010, the company had 277
    industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
    29.9 million square feet and representing 21.1% of its
    industrial operating properties based on aggregate square
    footage and 19.7% based on industrial annualized base rent, on
    an owned and managed basis. International properties located in
    active seismic areas include Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and Mexico
    City, Mexico. The company carries earthquake insurance on all of
    its properties located in areas historically subject to seismic
    activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that
    it believes are commercially reasonable. The company evaluates
    its earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current
    industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside
    consultants.


 


    A number of the company’s properties are located in areas
    that are known to be subject to hurricane
    and/or flood
    risk. The company carries hurricane and flood hazard insurance
    on all of its properties located in areas historically subject
    to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and
    deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. The
    company evaluates its insurance coverage annually in light of
    current industry practice through an analysis prepared by
    outside consultants.


 



    Contingent
    or unknown liabilities could adversely affect the company’s
    financial condition.


 


    The company has acquired and may in the future acquire
    properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or
    with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities.
    As a result, if a liability were asserted against the company
    based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties,
    then the company might have to





    
    29



Table of Contents





    pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect
    its cash flow. Contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to
    entities or properties acquired might include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    liabilities for environmental conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    losses in excess of the company’s insured coverage;




 



     
        • 

    
    accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course
    of business;




 



     
        • 

    
    tax, legal and regulatory liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the
    company’s predecessors prior to its formation or
    acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were
    unknown prior to the company’s formation or acquisition
    transactions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and
    directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the
    company’s properties.





 



    Risks
    Associated with the Company’s Dependence on Key
    Personnel


 


    The company depends on the efforts of its executive officers and
    other key employees. From time to time, the company’s
    personnel and their roles may change. As part of the
    company’s cost savings plan in 2008 and 2009, the company
    has reduced its total global headcount and may do so again in
    the future. In connection with the completion of the proposed
    merger with ProLogis, there may be additional changes to the
    company’s personnel and their roles that impact the
    combined company. While the company believes that it has
    retained its key talent, left its global platform intact and can
    find suitable employees to meet its personnel needs, the loss of
    key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of
    their availability could adversely affect the company’s
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company’s
    stockholders and distributions to the operating
    partnership’s unitholders, and the market price of the
    parent company’s stock. The company currently does not have
    employment agreements with any of its executive officers, other
    than agreements that may be contingent on the completion of the
    proposed merger with ProLogis.


 


    Because the company’s compensation packages include
    equity-based incentives, pressure on the parent company’s
    stock price or limitations on the company’s ability to
    award such incentives could affect the company’s ability to
    offer competitive compensation packages to its executives and
    key employees. If the company is unable to continue to attract
    and retain its executive officers, or if compensation costs
    required to attract and retain key employees become more
    expensive, the company’s performance and competitive
    position could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Federal
    Income Tax Risks


 



    The
    parent company’s failure to qualify as a real estate
    investment trust would have serious adverse consequences to
    its stockholders.


 


    The parent company elected to be taxed as a real estate
    investment trust under Sections 856 through 860 of the
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal
    Revenue Code”), commencing with its taxable year ended
    December 31, 1997. The parent company believes it has
    operated so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust
    under the Internal Revenue Code and believes that the parent
    company’s current organization and method of operation
    comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the
    Internal Revenue Code to enable it to continue to qualify as a
    real estate investment trust. However, it is possible that the
    parent company has been organized or has operated in a manner
    that would not allow it to qualify as a real estate investment
    trust, or that the parent company’s future operations could
    cause it to fail to qualify. Qualification as a real estate
    investment trust requires the parent company to satisfy numerous
    requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis)
    established under highly technical and complex sections of the
    Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial
    and administrative interpretations, and involves the
    determination of various factual matters and circumstances not
    entirely within the parent company’s control. For example,
    in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, the
    parent company must derive at least 95% of its gross income in
    any year from qualifying sources. In addition, the parent
    company must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating
    annually at least 90% of





    
    30



Table of Contents





    its real estate investment trust taxable income (determined
    without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding
    capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a
    quarterly basis. While historically the parent company has
    satisfied the distribution requirement discussed above by making
    cash distributions to its stockholders, the parent company may
    choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of
    cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its
    own stock. For distributions with respect to taxable years
    ending on or before December 31, 2011, and in some cases
    declared as late as December 31, 2012, the parent company
    can satisfy up to 90% of this distribution requirement through
    the distribution of shares of its stock if certain conditions
    are met. The provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and
    applicable Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a
    real estate investment trust are more complicated in the parent
    company’s case because it holds its assets through the
    operating partnership.


 


    If the parent company fails to qualify as a real estate
    investment trust in any taxable year, the parent company will be
    required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable
    alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular
    corporate rates. Unless the parent company is entitled to relief
    under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would be
    disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust
    for the four taxable years following the year in which the
    parent company lost its qualification. If the parent company
    lost its real estate investment trust status, the parent
    company’s net earnings available for investment or
    distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for
    each of the years involved. In addition, the parent company
    would no longer be required to make distributions to its
    stockholders.


 


    Furthermore, the parent company owns a direct or indirect
    interest in certain subsidiary REITs which elected to be taxed
    as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal
    Revenue Code. Provided that each subsidiary REIT qualifies as a
    REIT, the parent company’s interest in such subsidiary REIT
    will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes
    of the REIT asset tests, and any dividend income or gains
    derived by the parent company from such subsidiary REIT will
    generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of
    the REIT gross income tests. To qualify as a REIT, the
    subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT
    qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail
    to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not
    apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and
    its income would be subject to United States federal income tax.
    In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a
    REIT would have an adverse effect on the parent company’s
    ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus
    the parent company’s ability to qualify as a REIT.


 



    Certain
    property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income,
    resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the
    transaction.


 


    From time to time, the company may transfer or otherwise dispose
    of some of its properties, including by contributing properties
    to its co-investment venture funds. Under the Internal Revenue
    Code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties the
    company holds as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in
    the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a
    prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. The
    company does not believe that its transfers or disposals of
    property or its contributions of properties into its
    co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. However,
    whether property is held for investment purposes is a question
    of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances
    surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue
    Service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of
    properties by the company or contributions of properties into
    the company’s co-investment venture funds are prohibited
    transactions. While the company believes that the Internal
    Revenue Service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the
    Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a
    transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a
    prohibited transaction, the company would be required to pay a
    100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to the company from the
    prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited
    transaction might adversely affect the company’s ability to
    satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate
    investment trust.


 



    The
    parent company may in the future choose to pay dividends in its
    own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in
    excess of the cash you receive.


 


    The parent company may distribute taxable dividends that are
    partially payable in cash and partially payable in its stock. Up
    to 90% of any such taxable dividend with respect to calendar
    years 2008 through 2011, and in some





    
    31



Table of Contents





    cases declared as late as December 31, 2012, could be
    payable in the parent company’s stock if certain conditions
    are met. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be
    required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary
    income to the extent of the parent company’s current and
    accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal
    income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be
    required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of
    the cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it
    receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales
    proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with
    respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of the
    parent company’s stock at the time of the sale.
    Furthermore, with respect to
    non-U.S. stockholders,
    the parent company may be required to withhold U.S. tax
    with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a
    portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition,
    if a significant number of the parent company’s
    stockholders determine to sell shares of its stock in order to
    pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the
    trading price of the parent company’s stock.


 



    Legislative
    or regulatory action could adversely affect the parent
    company’s stockholders.


 


    In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and
    administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax
    laws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities.
    Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur
    in the future, and there can be no assurance that any such
    changes will not adversely affect the taxation of the parent
    company, the operating partnership, any stockholder of the
    parent company or any limited partner of the operating
    partnership.


 



    Conflicts
    of Interest Risks


 



    Some
    of the company’s directors and executive officers are
    involved in other real estate activities and
    investments and, therefore, may have conflicts of interest
    with the company.


 


    From time to time, certain of the company’s executive
    officers and directors may own interests in other real-estate
    related businesses and investments, including de minimis
    holdings of the equity securities of public and private real
    estate companies. The company’s executive officers’
    involvement in other real estate-related activities could divert
    their attention from the company’s
    day-to-day
    operations. The company’s executive officers have entered
    into non-competition agreements with the company pursuant to
    which they have agreed not to engage in any activities, directly
    or indirectly, in respect of commercial real estate, and not to
    make any investment in respect of any industrial or retail real
    estate, other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the
    outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such
    activities or through certain specified investments. State law
    may limit the company’s ability to enforce these
    agreements. The company will not acquire any properties from its
    executive officers, directors or their affiliates unless the
    transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested and
    independent (as defined by the rules of the New York Stock
    Exchange) members of the parent company’s board of
    directors with respect to that transaction.


 



    The
    parent company’s role as general partner of the operating
    partnership may conflict with the interests of its
    stockholders.


 


    As the general partner of the operating partnership, the parent
    company has fiduciary obligations to the operating
    partnership’s limited partners, the discharge of which may
    conflict with the interests of the parent company’s
    stockholders. In addition, those persons holding limited
    partnership units will have the right to vote as a class on
    certain amendments to the operating partnership’s
    partnership agreement and individually to approve certain
    amendments that would adversely affect their rights. The limited
    partners may exercise these voting rights in a manner that
    conflicts with the interests of the parent company’s
    stockholders. In addition, under the terms of the operating
    partnership’s partnership agreement, holders of limited
    partnership units will have approval rights with respect to
    specified transactions that affect all stockholders but which
    they may not exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of
    all stockholders.




    
    32



Table of Contents






    Risks
    Associated with Government Regulations


 



    The
    costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and
    any related potential liability could exceed the company’s
    budgets for these items.


 


    Under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a
    current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be
    liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of
    certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at,
    on, under, in or from its property. The costs of removal or
    remediation of such substances could be substantial. These laws
    typically impose liability and
    clean-up
    responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator
    knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more
    than one person may have been responsible for the contamination,
    each person covered by the environmental laws may be held
    responsible for all of the
    clean-up
    costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or
    operator of a site for damages based on personal injury,
    property damage or other costs, including investigation and
    clean-up
    costs, resulting from the environmental contamination.


 


    Environmental laws in some countries, including the United
    States, also require that owners or operators of buildings
    containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos,
    adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with
    asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or
    other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during
    building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines
    and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply
    with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek
    recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated
    with exposure to asbestos. Some of the company’s properties
    are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials.


 


    In addition, some of the company’s properties are leased or
    have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses
    that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other
    hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the
    release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain
    of the company’s properties are on, adjacent to or near
    other properties that have contained or currently contain
    petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or
    upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in
    activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances.
    From time to time, the company may acquire properties, or
    interests in properties, with known adverse environmental
    conditions where the company believes that the environmental
    liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable
    and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted
    return. In such an instance, the company underwrites the costs
    of environmental investigation,
    clean-up and
    monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtains appropriate
    environmental insurance for the property. Further, in connection
    with certain divested properties, the company has agreed to
    remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or
    monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties.


 


    At the time of acquisition, the company subjects all of its
    properties to a Phase I or similar environmental assessments by
    independent environmental consultants and the company may have
    additional Phase II testing performed upon the
    consultant’s recommendation. These environmental
    assessments have not revealed, and the company is not aware of,
    any environmental liability that it believes would have a
    material adverse effect on the company’s financial
    condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
    Nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal
    all environmental liabilities and that there are material
    environmental liabilities unknown to the company, or that known
    environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are
    greater than the company anticipated. Further, the
    company’s properties’ current environmental condition
    may be affected by customers, the condition of land, operations
    in the vicinity of the properties (such as releases from
    underground storage tanks) or by unrelated third parties. If the
    costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws
    and regulations exceed the company’s budgets for these
    items, then the company’s financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to the
    parent company’s stockholders and distributions to the
    operating partnership’s unitholders, and the market price
    of the parent company’s stock could be adversely affected.


 



    Compliance
    or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
    and other similar regulations could result in substantial
    costs.


 


    Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public
    accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to
    access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result
    in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the
    award of damages to private litigants. If the company is
    required to make





    
    33



Table of Contents





    unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans with
    Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then the
    company’s cash flow and the amounts available for dividends
    to the parent company’s stockholders and distributions to
    the operating partnership’s unitholders may be adversely
    affected. The company’s properties are also subject to
    various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such
    as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. The
    company could incur fines or private damage awards if it fails
    to comply with these requirements. While the company believes
    that its properties are currently in material compliance with
    these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or
    new requirements may be imposed that could require significant
    unanticipated expenditures by the company that will affect its
    cash flow and results of operations.


 



    Risks
    Associated with Ownership of the Parent Company’s
    Stock


 



    Limitations
    in the parent company’s charter and bylaws could prevent a
    change in control.


 


    Certain provisions of the parent company’s charter and
    bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other
    transaction that could provide the holders of the parent
    company’s common stock with the opportunity to realize a
    premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common
    stock. To maintain the parent company’s qualification as a
    real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes,
    not more than 50% in value of the parent company’s
    outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by
    five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue
    Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a
    taxable year after the first taxable year for which a real
    estate investment trust election is made. Furthermore, the
    parent company’s common stock must be held by a minimum of
    100 persons for at least 335 days of a
    12-month
    taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). In
    addition, if the parent company, or an owner of 10% or more of
    the parent company’s stock, actually or constructively owns
    10% or more of one of the parent company’s customers (or a
    customer of any partnership in which the company is a partner),
    then the rent received by the parent company (either directly or
    through any such partnership) from that customer will not be
    qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment
    trust gross income tests of the Internal Revenue Code. To help
    the parent company maintain its qualification as a real estate
    investment trust for federal income tax purposes, the parent
    company prohibits the ownership, actually or by virtue of the
    constructive ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code,
    by any single person, of more than 9.8% (by value or number of
    shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the issued and
    outstanding shares of each of the parent company’s common
    stock, series L preferred stock, series M preferred
    stock, series O preferred stock, and series P
    preferred stock (unless such limitations are waived by the
    parent company’s board of directors). The parent company
    refers to this limitation as the “ownership limit.”
    The charter provides that shares acquired or held in violation
    of the ownership limit will be transferred to a trust for the
    benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary. The charter
    further provides that any person who acquires shares in
    violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any
    dividends on the shares or be entitled to vote the shares or
    receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the shares in
    excess of the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the
    amount realized from the sale. A transfer of shares in violation
    of the above limits may be void under certain circumstances. The
    ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or
    preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely
    affect the parent company’s stockholders’ ability to
    realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the
    shares of the parent company’s common stock in connection
    with such transaction.


 


    The parent company’s charter authorizes it to issue
    additional shares of common and preferred stock and to establish
    the preferences, rights and other terms of any series or class
    of preferred stock that the parent company issues. The parent
    company’s board of directors could establish a series or
    class of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying,
    deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in
    control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock
    or otherwise be in the best interests of the parent
    company’s stockholders.


 


    The parent company’s charter and bylaws and Maryland law
    also contain other provisions that may impede various actions by
    stockholders without the approval of the parent company’s
    board of directors, which in turn may delay, defer or prevent a
    transaction, including a change in control. The parent
    company’s charter and bylaws include the following
    provisions:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a
    two-thirds vote of stockholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    the parent company’s board can fix the number of directors
    within set limits (which limits are subject to change by the
    parent company’s board), and fill vacant directorships upon
    the vote of a majority of the








    
    34



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the
    case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the
    board, a majority of the entire board;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or
    propose business for consideration at a stockholders’
    meeting; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the request of the holders of 50% or more of the parent
    company’s common stock is necessary for stockholders to
    call a special meeting.





 


    Maryland law includes the following provisions:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend the
    parent company’s charter; and




 



     
        • 

    
    stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous
    approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in
    question.





 


    In addition, the parent company’s board could elect to
    adopt, without stockholder approval, other provisions under
    Maryland law that may impede a change in control.


 



    If the
    parent company issues additional securities, then the investment
    of existing stockholders will be diluted.


 


    As the parent company is a real estate investment trust, the
    company is dependent on external sources of capital and the
    parent company may issue common or preferred stock and the
    operating partnership may issue debt securities to fund the
    company’s future capital needs. The company has the
    authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or
    debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or AMB
    Property II, L.P., one of the company’s subsidiaries, to
    issue limited partnership units, in exchange for property or
    otherwise. Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to
    acquire any additional securities issued by the operating
    partnership, AMB Property II, L.P., or the parent company and
    any issuance of additional equity securities may adversely
    affect the market price of the parent company’s stock and
    could result in dilution of an existing stockholder’s
    investment. In addition, in the event the proposed merger with
    ProLogis is completed, the investment of existing stockholders
    will be diluted based on the exchange ratio of ProLogis shares
    of common stock into the company’s shares, which will
    result in current AMB stockholders owning approximately 40% of
    the combined company.


 



    Earnings,
    cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the
    price of the parent company’s stock.


 


    As the parent company is a real estate investment trust, the
    market value of the parent company’s equity securities, in
    general, is based primarily upon the market’s perception of
    the parent company’s growth potential and its current and
    potential future earnings and cash dividends. The market value
    of the parent company’s equity securities is based
    secondarily upon the market value of its underlying real estate
    assets. For this reason, shares of the parent company’s
    stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than its net
    asset value per share. To the extent that the parent company
    retains operating cash flow for investment purposes, working
    capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while
    increasing the value of the parent company’s underlying
    assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of its
    stock. The parent company’s failure to meet the
    market’s expectations with regard to future earnings and
    cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of
    the parent company’s stock. Further, the distribution yield
    on the stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock)
    relative to market interest rates may also influence the price
    of the parent company’s stock. An increase in market
    interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of the parent
    company’s stock to expect a higher distribution yield,
    which would adversely affect the parent company’s
    stock’s market price. Additionally, if the market price of
    the parent company’s stock declines significantly, then the
    operating partnership might breach certain covenants with
    respect to its debt obligations, which could adversely affect
    the company’s liquidity and ability to make future
    acquisitions and the parent company’s ability to pay cash
    dividends to its stockholders and the operating
    partnership’s ability to pay distributions to its
    unitholders.


 


    The parent company’s board of directors has decided to
    align the parent company’s regular dividend payments with
    the projected taxable income from recurring operations alone.
    The parent company may make special





    
    35



Table of Contents





    distributions going forward, as necessary, related to taxable
    income associated with any asset dispositions and gain activity.
    In the past, the parent company’s board of directors has
    suspended dividends to the parent company’s stockholders,
    and it is possible that they may do so again in the future, or
    decide to pay dividends partially in the parent company’s
    own stock as provided for in the Internal Revenue Code.


 



    The
    parent company could change its investment and financing
    policies without a vote of stockholders.


 


    Subject to the parent company’s current investment policy
    to maintain the parent company’s qualification as a real
    estate investment trust (unless a change is approved by the
    parent company’s board of directors under certain
    circumstances), the parent company’s board of directors
    determines the company’s investment and financing policies,
    its growth strategy and its debt, capitalization, distribution
    and operating policies. The parent company’s board of
    directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies at
    any time without a vote of stockholders. Any such changes may
    not serve the interests of all of the parent company’s
    stockholders or the operating partnership’s unitholders and
    could adversely affect the company’s financial condition or
    results of operations, including its ability to pay cash
    dividends to the parent company’s stockholders and
    distributions to the operating partnership’s unitholders.


 



    Shares
    available for future sale could adversely affect the market
    price of the parent company’s common stock.


 


    The operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. had
    3,041,743 common limited partnership units issued and
    outstanding as of December 31, 2010, all of which are
    currently exchangeable on a
    one-for-one
    basis into shares of the parent company’s common stock. In
    the future, the operating partnership or AMB Property II, L.P.
    may issue additional limited partnership units, and the parent
    company may issue shares of common stock, in connection with the
    acquisition of properties or in private placements. These shares
    of common stock and the shares of common stock issuable upon
    exchange of limited partnership units may be sold in the public
    securities markets over time, pursuant to registration rights
    that the parent company has granted, or may grant in connection
    with future issuances, or pursuant to Rule 144 under the
    Securities Act of 1933. In addition, common stock issued under
    the company’s stock option and incentive plans may also be
    sold in the market pursuant to registration statements that the
    parent company has filed or pursuant to Rule 144. As of
    December 31, 2010, under the company’s stock option
    and incentive plans, the company had 4,014,453 shares of
    common stock reserved and available for future issuance, had
    outstanding options to purchase 8,694,938 shares of common
    stock (of which 6,361,551 are vested and exercisable and
    5,731,803 have exercise prices below market value at
    December 31, 2010) and had 1,202,122 unvested
    restricted shares of common stock outstanding. Future sales of a
    substantial number of shares of the parent company’s common
    stock in the market or the perception that such sales might
    occur could adversely affect the market price of the parent
    company’s common stock. Further, the existence of the
    common limited partnership units of the operating partnership
    and AMB Property II, L.P. and the shares of the parent
    company’s common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange
    of limited partnership units and the exercise of options, and
    registration rights referred to above, may adversely affect the
    terms upon which the parent company is able to obtain additional
    capital through the sale of equity securities.


 



    Risks
    Associated with the Company’s Disclosure Controls and
    Procedures and Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting


 



    The
    company’s business could be adversely impacted if it has
    deficiencies in its disclosure controls and procedures or
    internal control over financial reporting.


 


    The design and effectiveness of the company’s disclosure
    controls and procedures and internal control over financial
    reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or
    misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the
    effectiveness of the company’s disclosure controls and
    procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there
    can be no guarantee that the company’s internal control
    over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all
    control objectives all of the time. Furthermore, the
    company’s disclosure controls and procedures and internal
    control over financial reporting with respect to entities that
    the company does not control or manage or third-party entities
    that the company may acquire may be substantially more limited
    than those the company maintains with respect to the
    subsidiaries that the company has controlled or managed over the
    course of





    
    36



Table of Contents





    time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in the
    company’s internal control over financial reporting which
    may occur in the future could result in misstatements of the
    company’s results of operations, restatements of its
    financial statements, a decline in the parent company’s
    stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect the
    company’s business, reputation, results of operations,
    financial condition or liquidity.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B