Item 1A of this report. We caution you not to place undue
    reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our
    analysis only and speak as of the date of this report or as of
    the dates indicated in the statements. All of our
    forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are
    qualified in their entirety by this statement. We assume no
    obligation to update or supplement forward-looking
    statements.


 


    Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
    “AMB,” the “Company,” “we,”
    “us” and “our” refer to AMB Property
    Corporation, AMB Property, L.P. and their other controlled
    subsidiaries, and the references to AMB Property Corporation
    include AMB Property, L.P. and their controlled subsidiaries. We
    refer to AMB Property, L.P. as the “operating
    partnership.” The following marks are our registered
    trademarks:
    AMB®;

    and High Throughput
    Distribution®

    (HTD®).




    
    4



Table of Contents



 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    Business





 



    The
    Company


 


    AMB Property Corporation, a Maryland corporation, organized in
    1997, owns, acquires, develops and operates industrial
    properties in key distribution markets tied to global trade in
    the Americas, Europe and Asia. We use the terms “industrial
    properties” or “industrial buildings” to describe
    various types of industrial properties in our portfolio and use
    these terms interchangeably with the following: logistics
    facilities, centers or warehouses; distribution facilities,
    centers or warehouses; High Throughput
    Distribution®

    (HTD®)

    facilities; or any combination of these terms. We use the term
    “owned and managed” to describe assets in which we
    have at least a 10% ownership interest, we are the property or
    asset manager and we currently intend to hold for the long term.
    We use the term “joint venture” to describe all joint
    ventures, which include co-investment ventures, as well as
    ventures with third parties. We earn asset management
    distributions or fees, or earn incentive distributions or
    promote interests from the joint ventures. In certain cases, we
    might provide development, leasing, property management
    and/or
    accounting services, for which we may receive compensation. We
    use the term “co-investment venture” to describe joint
    ventures with institutional investors that are managed by us,
    from which we receive acquisition fees for third-party
    acquisitions, portfolio and asset management distributions or
    fees, as well as incentive distributions or promote interests.


 


    We operate our business primarily through our subsidiary, AMB
    Property, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, which we refer
    to as the “operating partnership.” As of
    December 31, 2008, we owned an approximate 96.6% general
    partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding
    preferred units. As the sole general partner of the operating
    partnership, we have the full, exclusive and complete
    responsibility for and discretion in its day-to-day management
    and control.


 


    We are a self-administered and self-managed real estate
    investment trust and expect that we have qualified, and will
    continue to qualify, as a real estate investment trust for
    federal income tax purposes beginning with the year ended
    December 31, 1997. As a self-administered and self-managed
    real estate investment trust, our own employees perform our
    corporate administrative and management functions, rather than
    our relying on an outside manager for these services. We manage
    our portfolio of properties generally through direct property
    management performed by our own employees. Additionally, within
    our flexible operating model, we may from time to time establish
    relationships with third-party real estate management firms,
    brokers and developers that provide some property-level
    administrative and management services under our direction.


 


    Our global headquarters are located at Pier 1, Bay 1,
    San Francisco, California 94111; our telephone number is
    (415) 394-9000.
    Our other principal office locations are in Amsterdam, Boston,
    Chicago, Los Angeles, Mexico City, Shanghai, Singapore and
    Tokyo. As of December 31, 2008, we employed 645
    individuals: 171 in our San Francisco headquarters, 46 in
    our Boston office, 54 in our Tokyo office, 58 in our Amsterdam
    office, 64 in our Mexico City office and the remainder in our
    other offices.


 



    Investment
    Strategy


 


    Our strategy focuses on providing industrial distribution
    warehouse space to customers whose businesses are tied to global
    trade and who value the efficient movement of goods through the
    global supply chain. Our properties are primarily located in the
    world’s busiest distribution markets: large,
    supply-constrained infill locations with dense populations and
    proximity to airports, seaports and major highway systems. When
    measured by annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis,
    a substantial majority of our portfolio of industrial properties
    is located in our target markets and much of this is in infill
    submarkets within our target markets. Infill locations are
    characterized by supply constraints on the availability of land
    for competing projects as well as physical, political or
    economic barriers to new development.


 


    In many of our target markets, we focus on
    HTD®

    facilities, which are buildings designed to facilitate the rapid
    distribution of our customers’ products rather than the
    storage of goods. Our investment focus on
    HTD®

    assets is based on what we believe to be a global trend toward
    lower inventory levels and expedited supply chains.
    HTD®




    
    5



Table of Contents




    facilities generally have a variety of physical characteristics
    that allow for the rapid transport of goods from point-to-point.
    These physical characteristics could include numerous dock
    doors, shallower building depths, fewer columns, large truck
    courts and more space for trailer parking. We believe that these
    building characteristics help our customers to reduce their
    costs and become more efficient in their delivery systems. Our
    customers include air express, logistics and freight forwarding
    companies that have time-sensitive needs, and that value
    facilities located in convenient proximity to transportation
    infrastructure, such as major airports and seaports.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we owned, or had investments in,
    on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated co-investment
    ventures, properties and development projects expected to total
    approximately 160.0 million square feet (14.9 million
    square meters) in 49 markets within 15 countries. Additionally,
    as of December 31, 2008, we managed, but did not have an
    ownership interest in, industrial and other properties totaling
    approximately 1.1 million rentable square feet.


 


    Of the approximately 160.0 million square feet as of
    December 31, 2008:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    on an owned and managed basis, which includes investments held
    on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint
    ventures, we owned or partially owned approximately
    131.5 million square feet (principally, warehouse
    distribution buildings) that were 95.1% leased; we had
    investments in 53 development projects, which are expected to
    total approximately 16.4 million square feet upon
    completion; and we owned 16 development projects, totaling
    approximately 4.6 million square feet, which are available
    for sale or contribution;




 



     
        • 

    
    through non-managed unconsolidated joint ventures, we had
    investments in 46 industrial operating properties, totaling
    approximately 7.4 million square feet; and




 



     
        • 

    
    we held approximately 0.1 million square feet through a
    ground lease, which is the location of our global headquarters.





 



    Operating
    Strategy


 


    We believe that real estate is fundamentally a local business
    and is best operated by local teams in each of our markets. As a
    vertically integrated company, we actively manage our portfolio
    of properties. In select markets, we may, from time to time,
    establish relationships with third-party real estate management
    firms, brokers and developers that provide some property-level
    administrative and management services under our direction. We
    offer a broad array of service offerings, including access to
    multiple locations worldwide and build-to-suit developments.


 



    Long Term
    Growth Strategies


 



    Growth
    through Operations


 


    We seek to generate long-term internal growth through rent
    increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space,
    striving to maintain a high occupancy rate at our properties and
    to control expenses by capitalizing on the economies of scale
    inherent in owning, operating and growing a large, global
    portfolio. We actively manage our portfolio, whether directly or
    with an alliance partner, by establishing leasing strategies and
    negotiating lease terms, pricing, and level and timing of
    property improvements. We believe that our long-standing focus
    on customer relationships and ability to provide global
    solutions in fifteen countries for a well-diversified customer
    base in the shipping, air cargo and logistics industries will
    enable us to capitalize on opportunities as they arise.


 


    We believe that our properties benefit from cost efficiencies
    produced by an experienced, cycle-tested operations team
    attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management and
    from our ongoing programs to ensure that our property management
    personnel remain focused on customer relations. Our goal is to
    be well-situated to attract new customers and achieve solid
    rental rates as a result of properties that are well-located,
    well-designed and well-maintained, a reputation for high-quality
    building services and responsiveness to customers and an ability
    to offer expansion, consolidation and relocation alternatives
    within our submarkets.



    
    6



Table of Contents





    Growth
    through Development


 


    We think that the development, redevelopment and expansion of
    well-located, high-quality industrial properties provide us with
    attractive investment opportunities at higher rates of return
    than may be obtained from the purchase of existing properties.
    Through the deployment of our in-house development and
    redevelopment expertise, we seek to create value both through
    new construction and the acquisition and management of
    redevelopment opportunities. Additionally, we believe that our
    historical focus on infill locations creates a unique
    opportunity to enhance value through the select conversion of
    industrial properties to higher and better uses, within our
    value-added conversion business. Value-added conversion projects
    generally involve a significant enhancement or a change in use
    of the property from industrial distribution warehouse to a
    higher and better use, such as office, retail or residential.
    New developments, redevelopments and value-added conversions
    require significant management attention, and development and
    redevelopment require significant capital investment, to
    maximize their returns. Completed development and redevelopment
    properties are generally contributed to our co-investment
    ventures and held in our owned and managed portfolio or sold to
    third parties. Value-added conversion properties are generally
    sold to third parties at some point in the
    re-entitlement/conversion process, thus recognizing the enhanced
    value of the underlying land that supports the property’s
    repurposed use. We think our global market presence and
    expertise will enable us to generate and capitalize on a diverse
    range of development opportunities in the long term. At this
    time, however, while development, redevelopment and value added
    conversions will continue to be a fundamental part of our long
    term growth strategy, we will limit this activity to situations
    where we are fulfilling prior commitments until the financial
    and real estate markets stabilize.


 


    Although we have reduced our development staff in correlation to
    reduced levels of development activity, our core team possesses
    multidisciplinary backgrounds, which positions us to complete
    the build out of our development pipeline and for future
    development or redevelopment opportunities when stability
    returns to the financial and real estate markets. We believe our
    development team has extensive experience in real estate
    development, both with us and with local, national or
    international development firms. We pursue development projects
    directly and in co-investment ventures and development joint
    ventures, providing us with the flexibility to pursue
    development projects independently or in partnerships, depending
    on market conditions, submarkets or building sites and
    availability of capital.


 



    Growth
    through Acquisitions and Capital Redeployment


 


    Our acquisition experience and our network of property
    management, leasing and acquisition resources should continue to
    provide opportunities for growth. In addition to our internal
    resources, we have long-term relationships with leasing and
    investment sales brokers, as well as third-party local property
    management firms, which may give us access to additional
    acquisition opportunities because such managers frequently
    market properties on behalf of sellers. In addition, we seek to
    redeploy capital from non-strategic assets into properties that
    better fit our current investment focus. See Part II,
    Item 7: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Summary of Key Transactions in 2008.” At this time, while
    acquisitions will continue to be a fundamental part of our long
    term growth strategy, we will limit this activity to situations
    where we are fulfilling prior commitments until the financial
    and real estate markets stabilize.


 


    We are generally engaged in various stages of negotiations for a
    number of acquisitions and other transactions, some of which may
    be significant, that may include, but are not limited to,
    individual properties, large multi-property portfolios or
    property owning or real estate-related entities. We cannot
    assure you that we will consummate any of these transactions.
    Such transactions, if we consummate them, may be material
    individually or in the aggregate.


 



    Growth
    through Global Expansion


 


    Our long-term capital allocation goal is to have approximately
    50% of our owned and managed operating portfolio invested in
    markets outside the United States based on annualized base rent.
    Expansion into target markets outside the United States
    represents a natural extension of our strategy to invest in
    industrial property markets with high population densities,
    proximity to large customer clusters and available labor pools,
    and major distribution centers serving global trade. Our
    international expansion strategy mirrors our focus in the United
    States on supply-



    
    7



Table of Contents




    constrained submarkets with political, economic or physical
    constraints to new development. Our international investments
    extend our offering of
    HTD®

    facilities to customers who value speed-to-market over storage.
    We think that our established customer relationships, our
    contacts in the air cargo, shipping and logistics industries,
    our underwriting of markets and investments, our in-house
    expertise and our strategic alliances with knowledgeable
    developers and managers will assist us in competing
    internationally. For a discussion of the amount of our revenues
    attributable to the United States and international markets,
    please see Part IV, Item 15: Note 16 of the
    “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”


 



    Growth
    through Co-Investments


 


    We, through AMB Capital Partners, LLC, our private capital
    group, were one of the pioneers of the real estate investment
    trust (REIT) industry’s co-investment private capital
    investment model and have more than 25 years of experience
    meeting institutional investors’ real estate needs. We
    co-invest in properties with private capital investors through
    partnerships, limited liability companies or other joint
    ventures. We have a direct and long-standing relationship with
    institutional investors. More than 60% of our owned and managed
    operating portfolio is owned through our eight co-investment
    ventures. We tailor industrial portfolios to investors’
    specific needs — in separate or commingled
    accounts — deploying capital in both close-ended and
    open-ended structures and providing complete portfolio
    management and financial reporting services. Generally, we will
    own a 10-50%
    interest in our co-investment ventures. Our co-investment
    ventures typically allow us to earn acquisition and development
    fees, asset management fees or priority distributions, as well
    as promote interests or incentive distributions based on the
    performance of the co-investment ventures. As of
    December 31, 2008, we owned approximately 78.7 million
    square feet of our properties (49.2% of the total operating and
    development portfolio) through our consolidated and
    unconsolidated co-investment ventures.


 



    New
    York Stock Exchange Certification


 


    We submitted our 2008 annual Section 12(a) Chief Executive
    Officer certification with the New York Stock Exchange. The
    certification was not qualified in any respect. Additionally, we
    filed with the SEC as exhibits to this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for the year ended December 31, 2008, the Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications required
    under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
    furnished as exhibits to this Annual Report the Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications required
    under Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


 


    Our website address is
    http://www.amb.com.
    Our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are available on our website free of charge as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and
    Exchange Commission, or SEC. The public may read and copy these
    materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may
    obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
    by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains a website that contains such reports, proxy
    and information statements and other information, and the
    Internet address is
    http://www.sec.gov.
    Our Corporate Governance Principles and Code of Business Conduct
    are also posted on our website. Information contained on our
    website is not and should not be deemed a part of this report or
    any other report or filing filed with or furnished to the SEC.



    
    8



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    BUSINESS
    RISKS


 


    Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse
    consequences to us. These risks include, among others:


 



    Risks of
    the Current Economic Environment


 



    If the
    global market and economic crisis intensifies or continues in
    the long term, disruptions in the capital and credit markets may
    adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows
    and financial condition.


 


    Recent global market and economic conditions have been
    unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions,
    slower growth through the fourth quarter of 2008 and recession
    in most major economies continuing into 2009. Continued concerns
    about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and
    cost of credit, declining real estate market, energy costs and
    geopolitical issues have contributed to increased market
    volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy.
    In the fourth quarter of 2008, added concerns fueled by the
    failure of several large financial institutions and government
    interventions in the credit markets led to increased market
    uncertainty and instability in the capital and credit markets.
    These conditions, combined with declining business activity
    levels and consumer confidence, increased unemployment and
    volatile oil prices, have contributed to unprecedented levels of
    volatility in the capital markets. If the global market and
    economic crisis intensifies or continues in the long term,
    disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely
    affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and
    financial condition.


 


    As a result of these market conditions, the cost and
    availability of credit have been and may continue to be
    adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit
    spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally
    and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many
    lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some
    cases, cease to provide funding to businesses and consumers.
    These factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses
    and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global
    infrastructure spending. While we currently believe that we have
    sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit
    facilities in the near term, continued turbulence in the global
    markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and
    consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and
    financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial
    condition of our customers. If these market conditions persist
    in the long term, they may limit our ability, and the ability of
    our customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities, and
    access the credit markets to meet liquidity needs.


 


    If the long-term debt ratings of the operating partnership fall
    below our current levels, the borrowing cost of debt under our
    unsecured credit facilities and certain term loans may increase.
    In addition, if the long-term debt ratings of the operating
    partnership fall below investment grade, we may be unable to
    request borrowings in currencies other than U.S. dollars or
    Japanese Yen, as applicable; however, the lack of other currency
    borrowings does not affect our ability to fully draw down under
    the credit facilities or term loans. While we currently do not
    expect our long-term debt ratings to fall below investment
    grade, in the event that our ratings do fall below those levels,
    we may be unable to exercise our options to extend the term of
    our credit facilities or our $230 million secured term loan
    credit agreement, and the loss of our ability to borrow in
    foreign currencies could affect our ability to optimally hedge
    our borrowings against foreign currency exchange rate changes.
    In addition, while based on publicly available information
    regarding our lenders, we currently do not expect to lose
    borrowing capacity under our existing lines of credit and term
    loans as a result of a dissolution, bankruptcy, consolidation,
    merger or other business combination among our lenders, we
    cannot assure you that continuing long-term disruptions in the
    global economy and the continuation of tighter credit conditions
    among, and potential failures of, third-party financial
    institutions as a result of such disruptions will not have an
    adverse effect on our borrowing capacity and liquidity position.
    Our access to funds under our credit facilities is dependent on
    the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facilities
    to meet their funding commitments to us. We can not assure you
    that if one of our lenders fails (some of whom are lenders under
    a number of our facilities), we will be successful in finding a
    replacement lender and, as a result, our borrowing capacity
    under the applicable facilities may be permanently reduced. If
    we do not have sufficient cash flows and income from our
    operations to meet our financial commitments and those lenders



    
    9



Table of Contents




    are not able to meet their funding commitments to us, our
    business, results of operations, cash flows and financial
    condition could be adversely affected.


 


    Certain of our third-party indebtedness is held by our
    consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures. In the event that
    our joint venture partner is unable to meet its obligations
    under our joint venture agreements or the third-party debt
    agreements, we may elect to pay our joint venture partner’s
    portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property
    or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to
    meet the joint venture’s debt obligations. In either case,
    we could face a loss of income and asset value on the property.


 


    Until the financial and real estate markets stabilize, we have
    limited our capital deployment activities to situations where we
    are fulfilling prior commitments. There can be no assurance that
    the markets will stabilize in the near future or that we will
    choose to or be able to increase our levels of capital
    deployment at such time or ever. In addition, a continued
    increase in the cost of credit and inability to access the
    capital and credit markets may adversely impact the occupancy of
    our properties, the disposition of our properties, private
    capital raising and contribution of properties to our
    co-investment ventures. For example, an inability to fully lease
    our properties may result in such properties not meeting our
    investment criteria for contributions to our co-investment
    ventures. If we are unable to contribute completed development
    properties to our co-investment ventures or sell our completed
    development projects to third parties, we will not be able to
    recognize gains from the contribution or sale of such properties
    and, as a result, our net income available to our common
    stockholders and our funds from operations will decrease.
    Additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns
    and other similar factors that affect our customers may
    adversely impact our business and financial condition.
    Furthermore, general uncertainty in the real estate markets has
    resulted in conditions where the pricing of certain real estate
    assets may be difficult due to uncertainty with respect to
    capitalization rates and valuations, among other things, which
    may add to the difficulty of buyers or our co-investment
    ventures to obtain financing on favorable terms to acquire such
    properties or cause potential buyers to not complete
    acquisitions of such properties. The market uncertainty with
    respect to capitalization rates and real estate valuations also
    adversely impacts our net asset value. In addition, we may face
    difficulty in refinancing our mortgage debt, or may be unable to
    refinance such debt at all, if our property values significantly
    decline. Such a decline may also cause a default under the
    loan-to-value covenants in some of our joint ventures’
    mortgage debt, which may require our joint ventures to re-margin
    or pay down a portion of the applicable debt. There can be no
    assurance, however, that in such an event, we will be able to do
    so to prevent foreclosure.


 


    In the event that we do not have sufficient cash available to us
    through our operations to continue operating our business as
    usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our
    liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation,
    divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they otherwise
    meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less
    than optimal terms; issuing and selling our debt and equity in
    public or private transactions under less than optimal
    conditions; entering into leases with our customers at lower
    rental rates or less than optimal terms; or entering into lease
    renewals with our existing customers without an increase in
    rental rates at turnover. There can be no assurance, however,
    that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be
    available to us. Additionally, taking such measures to increase
    our liquidity may adversely affect our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had $223.9 million in cash
    and cash equivalents. Our available cash and cash equivalents
    are held in accounts managed by third-party financial
    institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in our
    operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in money
    market funds that invest solely in direct obligations of the
    government of the United States or in time deposits with certain
    financial institutions. To date, we have experienced no loss or
    lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents;
    however, we can provide no assurances that access to our
    invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by
    adverse conditions in the financial markets.


 


    At any point in time, we also have a significant amount of cash
    deposits in our operating accounts that are with third-party
    financial institutions, and, as of December 31, 2008, the
    amount in such deposits was approximately $176.6 million on
    a consolidated basis. These balances exceed the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While we monitor daily
    the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the cash
    balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted
    if the underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to
    other



    
    10



Table of Contents




    adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, we have
    experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in our operating
    accounts.


 



    The
    price per share of our stock may decline or fluctuate
    significantly.


 


    The market price per share of our common stock may decline or
    fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general market and economic conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating
    results or dividends or our payment of dividends in shares of
    our stock;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties or inability to access capital or extend or
    refinance existing debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    breaches of covenants and defaults under our credit facilities
    and other debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    decreasing (or uncertainty in) real estate valuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    publication of research reports about us or the real estate
    industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the
    attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other
    equity securities (including securities issued by other real
    estate-based companies);




 



     
        • 

    
    general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in
    interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead
    prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual
    yield from future dividends;




 



     
        • 

    
    a change in analyst ratings or our credit ratings;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in market valuations of similar companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the
    future;




 



     
        • 

    
    additions or departures of key management personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    actions by institutional stockholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    speculation in the press or investment community;




 



     
        • 

    
    terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which our
    securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and
    causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence
    and spending;




 



     
        • 

    
    governmental regulatory action and changes in tax laws; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the realization of any of the other risk factors included or
    incorporated by reference in this report.





 


    Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. These
    factors may cause the market price of shares of our common stock
    to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of
    operations, business or our prospects.


 



    Debt
    Financing Risks


 



    We
    face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business
    activities, including refinancing and interest rate
    risks.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had total debt outstanding of
    $4.0 billion. As of December 31, 2008, we guaranteed
    $1.2 billion of the operating partnership’s
    obligations with respect to the senior debt securities
    referenced in our financial statements. We are subject to risks
    normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that
    our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of
    principal and interest. We anticipate that we will repay only a
    small portion of the principal of our debt prior to maturity.
    Accordingly, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion
    of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we
    may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of
    any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our
    existing debt. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal
    payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds of other
    capital



    
    11



Table of Contents




    transactions, then we expect that our cash flow will not be
    sufficient in all years to repay all such maturing debt and to
    pay cash dividends to our stockholders. Furthermore, if
    prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of
    refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make
    commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates
    upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that
    refinanced indebtedness would increase. Higher interest rates on
    newly incurred debt may negatively impact us as well. If
    interest rates increase, our interest costs and overall costs of
    capital will increase, which could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operation and cash flow, the
    market price of our stock, our ability to pay principal and
    interest on our debt, our ability to pay cash dividends to our
    stockholders and our capital deployment activity. In addition,
    there may be circumstances that will require us to obtain
    amendments or waivers to provisions in our credit facilities or
    other financings. There can be no assurance that we will be able
    to obtain necessary amendments or waivers at all or without
    significant expense. In such case, we may not be able to fund
    our business activities as planned, within budget or at all.


 


    In addition, if we mortgage one or more of our properties to
    secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet
    mortgage payments, then the property could be foreclosed upon or
    transferred to the lender with a consequent loss of income and
    asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of our properties
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our
    stockholders, and the market price of our stock.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding bank guarantees
    in the amount of $27.8 million used to secure contingent
    obligations, primarily obligations under development and
    purchase agreements, including $0.7 million guaranteed
    under a purchase agreement entered into by an unconsolidated
    joint venture. As of December 31, 2008, we also guaranteed
    $49.6 million and $231.8 million on outstanding loans
    for six of our consolidated co-investment ventures and four of
    our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, respectively, as well
    as the following credit facility held by AMB Europe Fund I,
    FCP-FIS, one of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. In
    December 2008, we agreed to guarantee 50.2 million Euros
    (approximately $70.1 million in U.S. dollars using the
    exchange rate as of December 31, 2008) that our
    European affiliate borrowers
    and/or their
    affiliates borrowed under an existing credit facility held by
    AMB Europe Fund  I, FCP-FIS. The European affiliate
    borrowers are in the process of granting security interests to
    the lender, as the security agent, under and in accordance with
    the terms of such facility, all of which security interests are
    expected to become effective in the first half of 2009. We
    agreed to guarantee the 50.2 million Euro amount borrowed
    under such existing credit facility only until the security
    interests are granted, at which time the guarantees will be
    extinguished. Also, we have entered into contribution agreements
    with certain of our unconsolidated co-investment venture funds.
    These contribution agreements require us to make additional
    capital contributions to the applicable co-investment venture
    fund upon certain defaults by the co-investment venture of its
    debt obligations to the lenders. Such additional capital
    contributions will cover all or part of the applicable
    co-investment venture’s debt obligation and may be greater
    than our share of the co-investment venture’s debt
    obligation or the value of our share of any property securing
    such debt. Our contribution obligations under these agreements
    will be reduced by the amounts recovered by the lender and the
    fair market value of the property, if any, used to secure the
    debt and obtained by the lender upon default. Our potential
    obligations under these contribution agreements were
    $260.6 million as of December 31, 2008. We intend to
    continue to guarantee debt of our unconsolidated co-investment
    venture funds and make additional contributions to our
    unconsolidated co-investment venture funds in connection with
    property contributions to the funds. Such payment obligations
    under such guarantees and contribution obligations under such
    contribution agreements, if required to be paid, could be of a
    magnitude that could adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash
    dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our stock.


 



    Adverse
    changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our
    financing activity.


 


    The credit ratings of our senior unsecured long-term debt and
    preferred stock are based on our operating performance,
    liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and
    other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their
    rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount
    of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of
    any debt we may incur. There can be no assurance that we will be
    able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event
    our current credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur
    higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining
    additional financing. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings
    may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences
    under our current and future credit facilities



    
    12



Table of Contents




    and debt instruments. For example, if our credit ratings of our
    senior unsecured long-term debt are downgraded to below
    investment grade levels, we may not be able to obtain or
    maintain extensions on certain of our existing debt. Adverse
    changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our
    refinancing activities, our ability to manage our debt
    maturities, our future growth, our financial condition, the
    market price of our stock, and our development and acquisition
    activity.


 



    Covenants
    in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    The terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness
    require that we comply with a number of financial and other
    covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and
    leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. These
    covenants may limit flexibility in our operations, and our
    failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default
    under the applicable debt agreement even if we have satisfied
    our payment obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had
    certain non-recourse, secured loans, which are
    cross-collateralized by multiple properties. If we default on
    any of these loans, we may then be required to repay such
    indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to
    avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties
    within the applicable pool. Foreclosure on our properties, or
    our inability to refinance our loans on favorable terms, could
    adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations,
    cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders
    and the market price of our stock. In addition, our credit
    facilities and senior debt securities contain certain
    cross-default provisions, which are triggered in the event that
    our other material indebtedness is in default. These
    cross-default provisions may require us to repay or restructure
    the credit facilities and the senior debt securities in addition
    to any mortgage or other debt that is in default, which could
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
    cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders
    and the market price of our stock.


 



    Failure
    to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rates may
    adversely affect results of operations.


 


    We seek to manage our exposure to exchange and interest rate
    volatility by using exchange and interest rate hedging
    arrangements, such as cap agreements and swap agreements. These
    agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the
    counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
    arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in
    reducing our exposure to exchange or interest rate changes and
    that a court could rule that such agreements are not legally
    enforceable. Hedging may reduce overall returns on our
    investments. Failure to hedge effectively against exchange and
    interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our
    results of operations.


 



    We are
    dependent on external sources of capital.


 


    In order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we are
    required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least
    90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income
    (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and
    by excluding any net capital gain) and are subject to tax to the
    extent our income is not fully distributed. While historically
    we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash
    distributions to our stockholders, we may choose to  satisfy
    these requirements by making distributions of cash or other
    property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock.
    For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or
    before December 31, 2009, recent Internal Revenue Service
    guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of the distribution
    requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares
    of our stock, if certain conditions are met. Assuming we
    continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash,
    we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including
    acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from
    operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of
    capital. Further, in order to maintain our real estate
    investment trust status and avoid the payment of federal income
    and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term
    basis to meet the real estate investment trust distribution
    requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are
    not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing
    needs could result from differences in timing between the actual
    receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax
    purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures,
    the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization
    payments. Our ability to access private debt and equity capital
    on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of
    factors, including general



    
    13



Table of Contents




    market conditions, the market’s perception of our growth
    potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash
    distributions and the market price of our securities.


 



    We
    could incur more debt, increasing our debt
    service.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, our share of total debt-to-our
    share of total market capitalization ratio was 61.4%. Our
    definition of “our share of total market
    capitalization” is our share of total debt plus preferred
    equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. See footnote
    1 to the Capitalization Ratios table contained in Part II,
    Item 7: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operation —
    Liquidity and Capital Resources” for our definitions of
    “market equity” and “our share of total
    debt.” As this ratio percentage increases directly with a
    decrease in the market price per share of our capital stock, an
    unstable market environment will impact this ratio in a volatile
    manner. However, there can be no assurance that we would not
    also become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in
    debt service that could adversely affect the cash available for
    distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we become more
    highly leveraged, we may not be in compliance with the debt
    covenants contained in the agreements governing our
    co-investment ventures, which could adversely impact our private
    capital business.


 



    Other
    Real Estate Industry Risks


 



    Our
    performance and value are subject to general economic conditions
    and risks associated with our real estate assets.


 


    The investment returns available from equity investments in real
    estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital
    appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the
    expenses incurred in connection with the properties. If our
    properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating
    expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then
    our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders could be
    adversely affected. In addition, there are significant
    expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such
    as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs)
    that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the
    income from the property. Income from, and the value of, our
    properties may be adversely affected by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in the general economic climate, such as the current
    one, including diminished access to or availability of capital
    (including difficulties in financing, refinancing and extending
    existing debt) and rising inflation;




 



     
        • 

    
    local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand
    for industrial space;




 



     
        • 

    
    the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition from other properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased operating costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased cost of compliance with regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the potential for liability under applicable laws (including
    changes in tax laws); and




 



     
        • 

    
    disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political,
    regulatory or other factors, including terrorism.





 


    In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the
    United States and in other countries, rising interest rates,
    diminished access to or availability of capital or declining
    demand for real estate, may result in a general decrease in
    rents, an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases
    or greater difficulty in financing our acquisition and
    development activities, which would adversely affect our
    financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist
    attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could
    reduce the demand for and the value of our properties. To the
    extent that future attacks impact our customers, their
    businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including
    their ability to continue to honor their existing leases.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Our properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial
    real estate sector. As a result of this concentration, we feel
    the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more acutely
    than if our portfolio included other property types.


 



    Declining
    real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely
    affect our earnings and financial condition.


 


    The current economic downturn has generally resulted in lower
    real estate valuations, which has required us to recognize real
    estate impairment charges on our assets. In the quarter ended
    December 31, 2008, we recognized non-cash impairment
    charges of approximately $207.2 million on an owned and
    managed basis including $195.4 million of real estate
    impairment losses ($193.9 million on a consolidated basis)
    and $11.8 million of charges for the write-off of pursuit
    costs related to development projects that we no longer plan to
    commence and reserves against tax assets associated with the
    reduction in development activity. To the extent that the book
    value of a land parcel or development asset exceeded the fair
    market value of the property, based on its intended holding
    period, a non-cash impairment charge was recognized for the
    shortfall. We examined the estimated fair value of all of our
    assets under development and assets held for sale or
    contribution. The estimated fair value of each of these assets
    was calculated based upon our intent to sell or contribute these
    properties, assumptions regarding rental rates, costs to
    complete,
    lease-up and
    holding periods and sales prices or contribution values. To
    determine the fair market value for our land holdings, we
    considered our intent to sell or to develop the parcels and, in
    the case of the latter, assumptions regarding rental rates,
    costs to complete,
    lease-up and
    holding periods and sales prices or contribution values are
    taken into account. There can be no assurance that the estimates
    and assumptions we use to assess impairments are accurate and
    will reflect actual results. Further deterioration in real
    estate market conditions may lead to additional impairment
    charges in the future, possibly against other assets we hold or
    of a greater magnitude than we have currently recognized. A
    worsening real estate market may cause us to reevaluate the
    assumptions used in our impairment analysis and our intent to
    hold, sell, develop or contribute properties. Impairment charges
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations and our ability to pay cash dividends to our
    stockholders and the market price of our stock. See Part IV,
    Item 15: Note 3 of the “Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements” for a more detailed discussion of the
    real estate impairment losses recorded in our results of
    operations during the fourth quarter of 2008.


 



    We may
    be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases
    expire.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, on an owned and managed basis,
    leases on a total of 16.8% of our industrial properties (based
    on annualized base rent) will expire on or prior to
    December 31, 2009. We derive most of our income from rent
    received from our customers. Accordingly, our financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to
    pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be
    adversely affected if we are unable to promptly relet or renew
    these expiring leases or if the rental rates upon renewal or
    reletting are significantly lower than expected. Periods of
    economic slowdown or recession are likely to adversely affect
    our leasing activities. If a customer experiences a downturn in
    its business or other type of financial distress, then it may be
    unable to make timely rental payments or renew its lease.
    Further, our ability to rent space and the rents that we can
    charge are impacted, not only by customer demand, but by the
    number of other properties we have to compete with to appeal to
    customers.


 



    We
    could be adversely affected if a significant number of our
    customers are unable to meet their lease
    obligations.


 


    Our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value
    of our stock would be adversely affected if a significant number
    of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations to
    us. In the current economic environment, it is likely that
    customer bankruptcies will increase. If a customer seeks the
    protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, such
    customer’s lease may be terminated in the process and
    result in a reduction of cash flow to us. In the event of a
    significant number of lease defaults
    and/or
    tenant bankruptcies, our cash flow may not be sufficient to pay
    cash dividends to our stockholders and repay maturing debt and
    any other obligations. As of December 31, 2008, on an owned
    and managed basis, we did not have any single customer account
    for annualized



    
    15



Table of Contents




    base rent revenues greater than 4.1%. However, in the event of
    lease defaults by a significant number of our customers, we may
    incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord.


 



    We may
    be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous terms or at
    all.


 


    We intend to continue to divest ourselves of properties, which
    are currently in our pipeline, are held for sale or which
    otherwise do not meet our strategic objectives, and we may, in
    certain circumstances, divest ourselves of properties to
    increase our liquidity or to capitalize on opportunities that
    arise. Our ability to dispose of properties on advantageous
    terms or at all depends on factors beyond our control, including
    competition from other sellers, current market conditions
    (including capitalization rates applicable to our properties)
    and the availability of financing for potential buyers of our
    properties. If we are unable to dispose of properties at all or
    on favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property
    divestitures in accordance with our investment strategy, then
    our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow,
    ability to meet our debt obligations in a timely manner and
    ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market
    price of our stock could be adversely affected.


 



    Actions
    by our competitors may affect our ability to divest properties
    and may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and
    rental rates of our properties.


 


    We compete with other owners, operators and developers of real
    estate, some of which own properties similar to ours in the same
    submarkets in which our properties are located. If our
    competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in
    the same markets
    and/or at
    valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be
    unable to divest our assets at all or at favorable pricing or on
    favorable terms. In addition, if our competitors offer space at
    rental rates below current market rates or below the rental
    rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential
    customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates
    below those we currently charge in order to retain customers
    when our customers’ leases expire. As a result, our
    financial condition, cash flow, cash available for distribution,
    trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our
    debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected.


 



    We may
    not be successful in contributing properties to our
    co-investment ventures.


 


    Although we are curtailing our capital deployment activities
    until the financial and real estate markets stabilize, we may
    contribute or sell properties to our co-investment ventures on a
    case-by-case
    basis. However, we may fail to contribute properties to our
    co-investment ventures due to such factors as our inability to
    acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment
    criteria of such ventures, or our co-investment ventures’
    inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property
    contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover
    other capital requirements such as forward commitments, loan
    maturities and future redemptions. If the co-investment ventures
    are unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms after
    currently available capital is depleted or if the value of such
    properties are appraised at less than the cost of such
    properties, then such contributions or sales could be delayed or
    prevented, adversely affecting our financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to
    our stockholders, and the market price of our stock. For
    example, although we have acquired land for development and made
    capital commitments, we cannot be assured that we ultimately
    will be able to contribute such properties to our co-investment
    ventures as we have planned.


 


    A delay in these contributions could result in adverse effects
    on our liquidity and on our ability to meet projected earnings
    levels in a particular reporting period. Failure to meet our
    projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period could
    have an adverse effect on our results of operations,
    distributable cash flow and the value of our securities.


 



    We are
    subject to risks and liabilities in connection with properties
    owned through co-investment ventures, limited liability
    companies, partnerships and other investments.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, approximately 89.9 million
    square feet of our properties were held through several joint
    ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with third
    parties. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of
    available funds that we may invest in partnerships, limited
    liability companies or co-investment ventures, and we may
    continue to develop and acquire properties through co-investment
    ventures, limited liability



    
    16



Table of Contents




    companies, partnerships with and investments in other entities
    when warranted by the circumstances. Such partners may share
    certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners
    may manage the properties in the joint venture partnership,
    limited liability company or joint venture investments.
    Partnership, limited liability company or co-investment venture
    investments involve certain risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    if our partners, co-members or co-venturers go bankrupt, then we
    and any other remaining general partners, members or
    co-venturers may generally remain liable for the
    partnership’s, limited liability company’s or
    co-investment venture’s liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital
    contributions, then we may choose to or be required to
    contribute such capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    our partners, co-members or co-venturers might have economic or
    other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our
    business interests or goals that would affect our ability to
    operate the property;




 



     
        • 

    
    our partners, co-members or co-venturers may have the power to
    act contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or
    objectives, including our current policy with respect to
    maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust;




 



     
        • 

    
    the joint venture, limited liability company and partnership
    agreements often restrict the transfer of a co-venturer’s,
    member’s or partner’s interest or may otherwise
    restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on
    advantageous terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    our relationships with our partners, co-members or co-venturers
    are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or
    dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event,
    we may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets
    underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such
    interests or assets at an above-market price to continue
    ownership;




 



     
        • 

    
    disputes between us and our partners, co-members or
    co-investment venturers may result in litigation or arbitration
    that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and
    directors from focusing their time and effort on our business
    and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable
    partnership, limited liability company, or joint venture to
    additional risk; and




 



     
        • 

    
    we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our
    partners, co-members or co-venturers.





 


    We generally seek to maintain sufficient control or influence
    over our partnerships, limited liability companies and joint
    ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives,
    however, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one
    or more of the events described above could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market
    price of our stock.


 



    We may
    be unable to complete renovation, development and redevelopment
    projects at all or on advantageous terms.


 


    On a strategic and selective basis, we may develop, renovate and
    redevelop properties. In the long term after the credit markets
    stabilize, we may expand and increase our investment in our
    development, renovation and redevelopment business. The real
    estate development, renovation and redevelopment business
    involves significant risks that could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market
    price of our stock, which include the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects
    at all or on favorable terms and complete construction on
    schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service
    expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the
    properties, generating cash flow and, if applicable,
    contributing properties to a joint venture;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in
    obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy
    and other governmental permits and authorizations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing
    cash flow below budgeted amounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to lease properties at all or on favorable
    terms;






    
    17



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of
    remaining funding may exceed our estimates and projects may not
    be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value
    created by our value-added conversion projects ever or on our
    expected timetables;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may fail to contribute properties to our co-investment
    ventures due to such factors as our inability to acquire,
    develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria
    of such ventures, or our co-investment ventures’ inability
    to access debt and equity capital to pay for property
    contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover
    other capital requirements such as future redemptions;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is
    public opposition to our activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment
    activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically
    require a significant amount of management’s time and
    attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day
    operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    upon completion of construction, we may not be able to obtain,
    or obtain on advantageous terms, permanent financing for
    activities that we have financed through construction loans.





 



    We may
    be unable to consummate acquisitions at all or on advantageous
    terms or acquisitions may not perform as we
    expect.


 


    On a strategic and selective basis, we may continue to acquire
    properties, primarily industrial in nature. The acquisition of
    properties entails various risks, including the risks that our
    investments may not perform or grow in value as we expect, that
    we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate our new
    acquisitions into our existing operations or, if applicable,
    contribute the acquired properties to a joint venture, and that
    our cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to
    market standards may prove inaccurate. In addition, we expect to
    finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings
    under our unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from equity or
    debt offerings by us or the operating partnership or our
    subsidiaries and proceeds from property divestitures, which may
    not be available and which could adversely affect our cash flow.
    Further, we face significant competition for attractive
    investment opportunities from other real estate investors,
    including both publicly-traded real estate investment trusts and
    private institutional investors and funds. This competition
    increases as investments in real estate become increasingly
    attractive relative to other forms of investment. As a result of
    competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties
    as we desire or the purchase price may be significantly
    elevated. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the
    ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, and the
    market price of our stock.


 



    Real
    estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult
    for us to respond promptly to changing conditions.


 


    Real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of
    assets. Further, the Internal Revenue Code regulates the number
    of properties that we, as a real estate investment trust, can
    dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of
    improvements that we make to the properties. In addition, a
    portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain
    of our subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for
    limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. The
    contribution agreements for such properties may contain
    restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions
    of these properties, or a portion thereof, that result in a
    taxable transaction for specified periods, following the
    contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership.
    These limitations may affect our ability to sell properties.
    This lack of liquidity and the Internal Revenue Code
    restrictions may limit our ability to vary our portfolio
    promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions
    and, as a result, could adversely affect our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price
    of our stock, the ability to pay cash dividends to our
    stockholders, and our ability to access capital necessary to
    meet our debt payments and other obligations.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Risks
    Associated With Our International Business


 



    Our
    international activities are subject to special risks and we may
    not be able to effectively manage our international
    business.


 


    We have acquired and developed, and may continue to acquire and
    develop on a strategic and selective basis, properties outside
    the United States. Because local markets affect our operations,
    our international investments are subject to economic
    fluctuations in the international locations in which we invest.
    Access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable
    entirely or on favorable terms, in certain locations. In
    addition, our international operations are subject to the usual
    risks of doing business abroad such as revisions in tax treaties
    or other laws and regulations, including those governing the
    taxation of our international revenues, restrictions on the
    transfer of funds, and, in certain parts of the world,
    uncertainty over property rights and political instability. We
    cannot predict the likelihood that any of these developments may
    occur. Further, we have entered, and may in the future enter,
    into agreements with
    non-U.S. entities
    that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute
    resolution in the courts of, another country or region. We
    cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would provide us
    with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that
    may arise. Further, even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory
    decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could
    have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely
    basis or at all.


 


    We also have offices in many countries outside the United States
    and, as a result, our operations may be subject to risks that
    may limit our ability to effectively establish, staff and manage
    our offices outside the United States, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    differing employment practices and labor issues;




 



     
        • 

    
    local business and cultural factors that differ from our usual
    standards and practices;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between
    jurisdictions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    health concerns.





 


    Our global growth (including growth in new regions in the United
    States) subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated
    with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and
    establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the
    operations of new offices. In addition, payroll expenses are
    paid in local currencies and, therefore, we are exposed to risks
    associated with fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the
    U.S. dollar and these currencies.


 


    Further, our business has grown rapidly and may continue to grow
    in a strategic and deliberate manner. If we fail to effectively
    manage our international growth, then our financial condition,
    results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash
    dividends to our stockholders, and the market price of our stock
    could be adversely affected.


 



    We are
    subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates
    between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the other
    countries in which we invest.


 


    We may pursue growth opportunities in international markets on a
    strategic and selective basis. As we invest in countries where
    the U.S. dollar is not the national currency, we are
    subject to international currency risks from the potential
    fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and
    the currencies of those other countries. A significant
    depreciation in the value of the currency of one or more
    countries where we have a significant investment may materially
    affect our results of operations. We attempt to mitigate any
    such effects by borrowing in the currency of the country in
    which we are investing and, under certain circumstances, by
    putting in place international currency put option contracts to
    hedge exchange rate fluctuations. For leases denominated in
    international currencies, we may use derivative financial
    instruments to manage the international currency exchange risk.
    We cannot assure you, however, that our efforts will
    successfully neutralize all international currency risks.



    
    19



Table of Contents





    Acquired
    properties may be located in new markets, where we may face
    risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar
    market.


 


    We have acquired and may continue to acquire properties on a
    strategic and selective basis in international markets that are
    new to us. When we acquire properties located in these markets,
    we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or
    understanding of the local economy, forging new business
    relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local
    government and permitting procedures. We work to mitigate such
    risks through extensive diligence and research and associations
    with experienced partners; however, there can be no guarantee
    that all such risks will be eliminated.


 



    General
    Business Risks


 



    Our
    performance and value are impacted by the local economic
    conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in
    California.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, our industrial properties located
    in California represented 23.7% of the aggregate square footage
    of our industrial operating properties and 22.3% of our
    industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis.
    Our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in
    California may be affected by local real estate conditions (such
    as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties)
    and the local economic climate. Business layoffs, downsizing,
    industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may
    adversely impact California’s economic climate. Because of
    the number of properties we have located in California, a
    downturn in California’s economy or real estate conditions
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to our
    stockholders and the market price of our stock.


 



    We may
    experience losses that our insurance does not
    cover.


 


    We carry commercial liability, property and rental loss
    insurance covering all the properties that we own and manage in
    types and amounts that we believe are adequate and appropriate
    given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of
    coverage and industry practice. Certain losses, such as those
    due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be
    insured subject to certain limitations, including large
    deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. Although we have
    obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy
    specifications and insured limits that we consider commercially
    reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, we
    cannot be certain that we will be able to renew coverage on
    comparable terms or collect under such policies. In addition,
    there are other types of losses, such as those from riots,
    bio-terrorism or acts of war, that are not generally insured in
    our industry because it is not economically feasible to do so.
    We may incur material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and
    we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at
    commercially reasonable rates. Given current market conditions,
    there can also be no assurance that the insurance companies
    providing our coverage will not fail or have difficulty meeting
    their coverage obligations to us. Furthermore, we cannot assure
    you that our insurance companies will be able to continue to
    offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially
    reasonable rates. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or
    that exceeds our insured limits with respect to one or more of
    our properties or if our insurance companies fail to meet their
    coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then
    we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as
    well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties
    and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated
    for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to
    the properties. Moreover, as the general partner of the
    operating partnership, we generally will be liable for all of
    the operating partnership’s unsatisfied recourse
    obligations, including any obligations incurred by the operating
    partnership as the general partner of co-investment ventures.
    Any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect
    our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and the market
    price of our stock.


 


    A number of our properties are located in areas that are known
    to be subject to earthquake activity. U.S. properties
    located in active seismic areas include properties in the
    San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and Seattle. Our
    largest concentration of such properties is in California where,
    on an owned and managed basis, as of December 31, 2008, we
    had 296 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
    31.2 million square feet and representing 23.7% of our
    industrial operating properties based on aggregate square
    footage and 22.3% based on industrial annualized base rent, on
    an owned and managed basis. International properties located in
    active seismic



    
    20



Table of Contents




    areas include Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and Mexico City, Mexico. We
    carry earthquake insurance on all of our properties located in
    areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to
    coverage limitations and deductibles that we believe are
    commercially reasonable. We evaluate our earthquake insurance
    coverage annually in light of current industry practice through
    an analysis prepared by outside consultants.


 


    A number of our properties are located in areas that are known
    to be subject to hurricane
    and/or flood
    risk. We carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of
    our properties located in areas historically subject to such
    activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that
    we believe are commercially reasonable. We evaluate our
    insurance coverage annually in light of current industry
    practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants.


 



    Contingent
    or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    We have acquired and may in the future acquire properties
    subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only
    limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a
    result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon
    ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might
    have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely
    affect our cash flow. Contingent or unknown liabilities with
    respect to entities or properties acquired might include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    liabilities for environmental conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    losses in excess of our insured coverage;




 



     
        • 

    
    accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course
    of business;




 



     
        • 

    
    tax, legal and regulatory liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with our
    predecessors prior to our formation or acquisition transactions
    that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to our
    formation or acquisition transactions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and
    directors and others indemnified by the former owners of our
    properties.





 



    Risks
    Associated With Our Dependence on Key Personnel


 


    We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key
    employees. From time to time, our personnel and their roles may
    change. As part of our cost savings plan, we have reduced our
    total global headcount and may do so again in the future. While
    we believe that we have retained our key talent and left our
    global platform intact and can find suitable employees to meet
    our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in
    their roles, or the limitation of their availability could
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
    cash flow and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, and
    the market price of our stock. We do not have employment
    agreements with any of our executive officers.


 


    Because our compensation packages include equity-based
    incentives, pressure on our stock price or limitations on our
    ability to award such incentives could affect our ability to
    offer competitive compensation packages to our executives and
    key employees. If we are unable to continue to attract and
    retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required
    to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our
    performance and competitive position could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    Conflicts
    of Interest Risks


 



    Some
    of our directors and executive officers are involved in other
    real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have
    conflicts of interest with us.


 


    From time to time, certain of our executive officers and
    directors may own interests in other real-estate related
    businesses and investments, including de minimis holdings of the
    equity securities of public and private real estate companies.
    Our executive officers’ involvement in other real
    estate-related activities could divert their attention from our
    day-to-day operations. Our executive officers have entered into
    non-competition agreements with us



    
    21



Table of Contents




    pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in any
    activities, directly or indirectly, in respect of commercial
    real estate, and not to make any investment in respect of any
    industrial or retail real estate, other than through ownership
    of not more than 5% of the outstanding shares of a public
    company engaged in such activities or through certain specified
    investments. State law may limit our ability to enforce these
    agreements. We will not acquire any properties from our
    executive officers, directors or their affiliates unless the
    transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested and
    independent (as defined by the rules of the New York Stock
    Exchange) members of our board of directors with respect to that
    transaction.


 



    Our
    role as general partner of the operating partnership may
    conflict with the interests of our stockholders.


 


    As the general partner of the operating partnership, we have
    fiduciary obligations to the operating partnership’s
    limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the
    interests of our stockholders. In addition, those persons
    holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as
    a class on certain amendments to the operating
    partnership’s partnership agreement and individually to
    approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their
    rights. The limited partners may exercise these voting rights in
    a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders.
    In addition, under the terms of the operating partnership’s
    partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will
    have approval rights with respect to specified transactions that
    affect all stockholders but which they may not exercise in a
    manner that reflects the interests of all stockholders.


 



    Risks
    Associated with Government Regulations


 



    The
    costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and
    any related potential liability could exceed our budgets for
    these items.


 


    Under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a
    current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be
    liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of
    certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at,
    on, under, in or from its property. The costs of removal or
    remediation of such substances could be substantial. These laws
    typically impose liability and
    clean-up
    responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator
    knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more
    than one person may have been responsible for the contamination,
    each person covered by the environmental laws may be held
    responsible for all of the
    clean-up
    costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or
    operator of a site for damages based on personal injury,
    property damage or other costs, including investigation and
    clean-up
    costs, resulting from the environmental contamination.


 


    Environmental laws in some countries, including the United
    States, also require that owners or operators of buildings
    containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos,
    adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with
    asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or
    other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during
    building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines
    and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply
    with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek
    recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated
    with exposure to asbestos. Some of our properties are known to
    contain asbestos-containing building materials.


 


    In addition, some of our properties are leased or have been
    leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use,
    store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous
    or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of
    such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain of our
    properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that
    have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other
    hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have
    engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may
    release such hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time,
    we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with
    known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the
    environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are
    quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior
    risk-adjusted return. In such an instance, we underwrite the
    costs of environmental investigation,
    clean-up and
    monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtain appropriate
    environmental insurance for the property. Further, in connection
    with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain
    responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or
    monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties.



    
    22



Table of Contents




    At the time of acquisition, we subject all of our properties to
    a Phase I or similar environmental assessments by independent
    environmental consultants and we may have additional
    Phase II testing performed upon the consultant’s
    recommendation. These environmental assessments have not
    revealed, and we are not aware of, any environmental liability
    that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
    Nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal
    all environmental liabilities and that there are material
    environmental liabilities unknown to us, or that known
    environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are
    greater than we anticipated. Further, our properties’
    current environmental condition may be affected by customers,
    the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the
    properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks) or
    by unrelated third parties. If the costs of compliance with
    existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed our
    budgets for these items, then our financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to
    our stockholders, and the market price of our stock could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Compliance
    or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
    and other similar regulations could result in substantial
    costs.


 


    Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public
    accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to
    access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result
    in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the
    award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to
    make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans
    with Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then
    our cash flow and the amounts available for dividends to our
    stockholders may be adversely affected. Our properties are also
    subject to various federal, state and local regulatory
    requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety
    requirements. We could incur fines or private damage awards if
    we fail to comply with these requirements. While we believe that
    our properties are currently in material compliance with these
    regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new
    requirements may be imposed that could require significant
    unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow
    and results of operations.


 



    Federal
    Income Tax Risks


 



    Our
    failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust would have
    serious adverse consequences to our stockholders.


 


    We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under
    Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”),
    commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1997.
    We believe we have operated so as to qualify as a real estate
    investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code and believe
    that our current organization and method of operation comply
    with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal
    Revenue Code to enable us to continue to qualify as a real
    estate investment trust. However, it is possible that we have
    been organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow
    us to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or that our
    future operations could cause us to fail to qualify.
    Qualification as a real estate investment trust requires us to
    satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a
    quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex
    sections of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only
    limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and
    involves the determination of various factual matters and
    circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in
    order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we must
    derive at least 95% of our gross income in any year from
    qualifying sources. In addition, we must pay dividends to our
    stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our real
    estate investment trust taxable income (determined without
    regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital
    gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly
    basis. While historically we have satisfied the distribution
    requirement discussed above by making cash distributions to our
    stockholders, we may choose to satisfy this requirement by
    making distributions of cash or other property, including, in
    limited circumstances, our own stock. For distributions with
    respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31,
    2009, recent Internal Revenue Service guidance allows us to
    satisfy up to 90% of this distribution requirement through the
    distribution of shares of our stock, if certain conditions are
    met. The provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable
    Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a real estate
    investment trust are more complicated in our case because we
    hold our assets through the operating partnership. Legislation,
    new regulations, administrative interpretations or



    
    23



Table of Contents




    court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with
    respect to qualification as a real estate investment trust or
    the federal income tax consequences of such qualification.
    However, we are not aware of any pending tax legislation that
    would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a real estate
    investment trust.


 


    If we fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any
    taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax
    (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our
    taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are
    entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would
    be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust
    for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost
    our qualification. If we lost our real estate investment trust
    status, our net earnings available for investment or
    distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for
    each of the years involved. In addition, we would no longer be
    required to make distributions to our stockholders.


 


    Furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain
    subsidiary REITs which elected to be taxed as a REIT under
    Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code.
    Provided that each subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our
    interest in such subsidiary REIT will be treated as a qualifying
    real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and any
    dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary REIT
    will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes
    of the REIT gross income tests. To qualify as a REIT, the
    subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy various REIT
    qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail
    to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not
    apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and
    its income would be subject to United States federal income tax.
    In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a
    REIT would have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with
    the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify
    as a REIT.


 



    Certain
    property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income,
    resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the
    transaction.


 


    From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some
    of our properties, including by contributing properties to our
    co-investment venture funds. Under the Internal Revenue Code,
    any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as
    inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary
    course of business is treated as income from a prohibited
    transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. We do not believe
    that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions
    of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited
    transactions. However, whether property is held for investment
    purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and
    circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The
    Internal Revenue Service may contend that certain transfers or
    dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties
    into our co-investment venture funds are prohibited
    transactions. While we believe that the Internal Revenue Service
    would not prevail in any such dispute, if the Internal Revenue
    Service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition,
    or contribution of property constituted a prohibited
    transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on
    any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. In
    addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely
    affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification
    as a real estate investment trust.


 



    We may
    in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which
    case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you
    receive.


 


    We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in our
    stock. Under IRS Revenue Procedure
    2009-15, up
    to 90% of any such taxable dividend for 2008 and 2009 could be
    payable in our stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such
    dividends will be required to include the full amount of the
    dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and
    accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal
    income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be
    required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of
    the cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it
    receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales
    proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with
    respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our
    stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to
    non-U.S. stockholders,
    we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to
    such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such
    dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant
    number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock
    in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward
    pressure on the trading price of our stock.



    
    24



Table of Contents





    Risks
    Associated with Ownership of Our Stock


 



    Limitations
    in our charter and bylaws could prevent a change in
    control.


 


    Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay, defer or
    prevent a change in control or other transaction that could
    provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to
    realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the
    common stock. To maintain our qualification as a real estate
    investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than
    50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, actually or
    constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the
    Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) during the
    last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for
    which a real estate investment trust election is made.
    Furthermore, our common stock must be held by a minimum of
    100 persons for at least 335 days of a
    12-month
    taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). In
    addition, if we, or an owner of 10% or more of our stock,
    actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of our
    customers (or a customer of any partnership in which we are a
    partner), then the rent received by us (either directly or
    through any such partnership) from that customer will not be
    qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment
    trust gross income tests of the Internal Revenue Code. To help
    us maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust
    for federal income tax purposes, we prohibit the ownership,
    actually or by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions
    of the Internal Revenue Code, by any single person, of more than
    9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more
    restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of each of our
    common stock, series L preferred stock, series M
    preferred stock, series O preferred stock, and
    series P preferred stock (unless such limitations are
    waived by our board of directors). We also prohibit the
    ownership, actually or constructively, of any shares of our
    series D preferred stock by any single person so that no
    such person, taking into account all of our stock so owned by
    such person, including any common stock or other series of
    preferred stock, may own in excess of 9.8% of our issued and
    outstanding capital stock (unless such limitations are waived by
    our board of directors). We refer to this limitation as the
    “ownership limit.” The charter provides that shares
    acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be
    transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated
    charitable beneficiary. The charter further provides that any
    person who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit
    will not be entitled to any dividends on the shares or be
    entitled to vote the shares or receive any proceeds from the
    subsequent sale of the shares in excess of the lesser of the
    price paid for the shares or the amount realized from the sale.
    A transfer of shares in violation of the above limits may be
    void under certain circumstances. The ownership limit may have
    the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in
    control and, therefore, could adversely affect our
    stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the
    then-prevailing market price for the shares of our common stock
    in connection with such transaction.


 


    Our charter authorizes us to issue additional shares of common
    and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and
    other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that we
    issue. Our board of directors could establish a series or class
    of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying,
    deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in
    control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock
    or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.


 


    Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law also contain other
    provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders
    without the approval of our board of directors, which in turn
    may delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in
    control. Those provisions in our charter and bylaws include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a
    two-thirds vote of stockholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    our board can fix the number of directors within set limits
    (which limits are subject to change by our board), and fill
    vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the
    remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the
    case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the
    board, a majority of the entire board;




 



     
        • 

    
    stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or
    propose business for consideration at a stockholders’
    meeting; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the request of the holders of 50% or more of our common stock is
    necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting.






    
    25



Table of Contents



 


    Those provisions provided for under Maryland law include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend our
    charter; and




 



     
        • 

    
    stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous
    approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in
    question.





 


    In addition, our board could elect to adopt, without stockholder
    approval, other provisions under Maryland law that may impede a
    change in control.


 



    If we
    issue additional securities, then the investment of existing
    stockholders will be diluted.


 


    As a real estate investment trust, we are dependent on external
    sources of capital and may issue common or preferred stock or
    debt securities to fund our future capital needs. We have
    authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or
    debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or AMB
    Property II, L.P., one of our subsidiaries, to issue limited
    partnership units, in exchange for property or otherwise.
    Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to acquire any
    additional securities issued by the operating partnership, AMB
    Property II, L.P., or us and any issuance of additional equity
    securities may adversely effect the market price of our stock
    and could result in dilution of an existing stockholder’s
    investment.


 



    Earnings,
    cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the
    price of our stock.


 


    As a real estate investment trust, the market value of our
    equity securities, in general, is based primarily upon the
    market’s perception of our growth potential and our current
    and potential future earnings and cash dividends. The market
    value of our equity securities is based secondarily upon the
    market value of our underlying real estate assets. For this
    reason, shares of our stock may trade at prices that are higher
    or lower than our net asset value per share. To the extent that
    we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working
    capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while
    increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not
    correspondingly increase the market price of our stock. Our
    failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to
    future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect
    the market price of our stock. Further, the distribution yield
    on the stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock)
    relative to market interest rates may also influence the price
    of our stock. An increase in market interest rates might lead
    prospective purchasers of our stock to expect a higher
    distribution yield, which would adversely affect our
    stock’s market price. Additionally, if the market price of
    our stock declines significantly, then we might breach certain
    covenants with respect to our debt obligations, which could
    adversely affect our liquidity and ability to make future
    acquisitions and our ability to pay cash dividends to our
    stockholders.


 


    Our board of directors has decided to align our regular dividend
    payments with the projected taxable income from recurring
    operations alone. We may make special distributions going
    forward, as necessary, related to taxable income associated with
    any asset dispositions and gain activity. In the past, our board
    of directors has suspended dividends to our stockholders, and it
    is possible that they may do so again in the future, or decide
    to pay dividends in our own stock as provided for in the
    Internal Revenue Code.


 



    We
    could change our investment and financing policies without a
    vote of stockholders.


 


    Subject to our current investment policy to maintain our
    qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change
    is approved by our board of directors under certain
    circumstances), our board of directors determines our investment
    and financing policies, our growth strategy and our debt,
    capitalization, distribution and operating policies. Our board
    of directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies
    at any time without a vote of stockholders. Any such changes may
    not serve the interests of all stockholders and could adversely
    affect our financial condition or results of operations,
    including our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders.


 



    Shares
    available for future sale could adversely affect the market
    price of our common stock.


 


    The operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. had
    3,439,522 common limited partnership units issued and
    outstanding as of December 31, 2008, all of which are
    currently exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into shares of our
    common stock. In the future, the operating partnership or AMB
    Property II, L.P. may issue additional limited



    
    26



Table of Contents




    partnership units, and we may issue shares of common stock, in
    connection with the acquisition of properties or in private
    placements. These shares of common stock and the shares of
    common stock issuable upon exchange of limited partnership units
    may be sold in the public securities markets over time, pursuant
    to registration rights that we have granted, or may grant in
    connection with future issuances, or pursuant to Rule 144
    under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, common stock
    issued under our stock option and incentive plans may also be
    sold in the market pursuant to registration statements that we
    have filed or pursuant to Rule 144. As of December 31,
    2008, under our stock option and incentive plans, we had
    8,447,215 shares of common stock reserved and available for
    future issuance, had outstanding options to purchase
    6,206,678 shares of common stock (of which 5,161,609 are
    vested and exercisable and 178,890 have exercise prices below
    market value at December 31, 2008) and had 859,026
    unvested restricted shares of common stock outstanding. Future
    sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in
    the market or the perception that such sales might occur could
    adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further,
    the existence of the common limited partnership units of the
    operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. and the shares
    of our common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange of
    limited partnership units and the exercise of options, and
    registration rights referred to above, may adversely affect the
    terms upon which we are able to obtain additional capital
    through the sale of equity securities.


 



    Risks
    Associated with Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures and
    Internal Control over Financial Reporting


 



    Our
    business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in
    our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over
    financial reporting.


 


    The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
    procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not
    prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While
    management will continue to review the effectiveness of our
    disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
    financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal
    control over financial reporting will be effective in
    accomplishing all control objectives all of the time.
    Furthermore, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal
    control over financial reporting with respect to entities that
    we do not control or manage or third-party entities that we may
    acquire may be substantially more limited than those we maintain
    with respect to the subsidiaries that we have controlled or
    managed over the course of time. Deficiencies, including any
    material weakness, in our internal control over financial
    reporting which may occur in the future could result in
    misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our
    financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise
    materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of
    operations, financial condition or liquidity.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B