Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors









 



    BUSINESS
    RISKS


 


    Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse
    consequences to us. These risks include, among others:


 



    General
    Real Estate Industry Risks


 



    Our
    performance and value are subject to general economic conditions
    and risks associated with our real estate assets.


 


    The investment returns available from equity investments in real
    estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital
    appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the
    expenses incurred in connection with the properties. If our
    properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating
    expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then
    our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders could be
    adversely affected. In addition, there are significant
    expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such
    as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs)
    that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the
    income from the property. Income from, and the value of, our
    properties may be adversely affected by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in the general economic climate;



 


     
        • 

    
    local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand
    for industrial space;



 


     
        • 

    
    the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    competition from other properties;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance;



 


     
        • 

    
    increased operating costs;






    
    8



 



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increased cost of compliance with regulations;



 


     
        • 

    
    the potential for liability under applicable laws (including
    changes in tax laws); and



 


     
        • 

    
    disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political,
    regulatory or other factors, including terrorism.





 


    In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the
    United States and in other countries, rising interest rates or
    declining demand for real estate, or public perception that any
    of these events may occur, would result in a general decrease in
    rents or an increased occurrence of defaults under existing
    leases, which would adversely affect our financial condition and
    results of operations. Future terrorist attacks may result in
    declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for
    and the value of our properties. To the extent that future
    attacks impact our customers, their businesses similarly could
    be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to
    honor their existing leases.


 


    Our properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial
    real estate sector. As a result of this concentration, we would
    feel the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more
    acutely than if our portfolio included other property types.


 



    We may
    be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases
    expire.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, leases on a total of 14.3% of our
    industrial properties (based on annualized base rent) will
    expire on or prior to December 31, 2007. We derive most of
    our income from rent received from our customers. Accordingly,
    our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our
    stock could be adversely affected if we are unable to promptly
    relet or renew these expiring leases or if the rental rates upon
    renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected. If a
    customer experiences a downturn in its business or other type of
    financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental
    payments or renew its lease. Further, our ability to rent space
    and the rents that we can charge are impacted, not only by
    customer demand, but by the number of other properties we have
    to compete with to appeal to customers.


 



    Actions
    by our competitors may decrease or prevent increases of the
    occupancy and rental rates of our properties.


 


    We compete with other developers, owners and operators of real
    estate, some of which own properties similar to ours in the same
    submarkets in which our properties are located. If our
    competitors offer space at rental rates below current market
    rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our
    customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be
    pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently
    charge in order to retain customers when our customers’
    leases expire. As a result, our financial condition, cash flow,
    cash available for distribution, trading price of our common
    stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could
    be materially adversely affected.


 



    Real
    estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult
    for us to respond promptly to changing conditions.


 


    Real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of
    assets. Further, the Internal Revenue Code regulates the number
    of properties that we as a real estate investment trust, can
    dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of
    improvements that we make to the properties. In addition, a
    portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain
    of our subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for
    limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. The
    contribution agreements for such properties may contain
    restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions
    of these properties, or a portion thereof, that result in a
    taxable transaction for specified periods, following the
    contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership.
    These limitations may affect our ability to sell properties.
    This lack of liquidity and the Internal Revenue Code
    restrictions may limit our ability to vary our portfolio
    promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions
    and, as a result, could adversely affect our financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to
    pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.



    
    9



 



 



    We
    could be adversely affected if a significant number of our
    customers are unable to meet their lease
    obligations.


 


    Our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value
    of our stock would be adversely affected if a significant number
    of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations to
    us. In the event of a significant number of lease defaults, our
    cash flow may not be sufficient to pay dividends to our
    stockholders and repay maturing debt. As of December 31,
    2006, we did not have any single customer account for annualized
    base rent revenues greater than 3.1%. However, in the event of
    lease defaults by a significant number of our customers, we may
    incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord.


 



    We may
    be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous terms or
    acquisitions may not perform as we expect.


 


    We acquire and intend to continue to acquire primarily
    industrial properties. The acquisition of properties entails
    various risks, including the risks that our investments may not
    perform as we expect, that we may be unable to quickly and
    efficiently integrate our new acquisitions into our existing
    operations and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired
    property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. Further,
    we face significant competition for attractive investment
    opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors,
    including both publicly-traded real estate investment trusts and
    private institutional investment funds. This competition
    increases as investments in real estate become increasingly
    attractive relative to other forms of investment. As a result of
    competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties
    as we desire or the purchase price may be significantly
    elevated. In addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions
    through a combination of borrowings under our unsecured credit
    facilities, proceeds from equity or debt offerings by us or the
    operating partnership or its subsidiaries and proceeds from
    property divestitures, which may not be available and which
    could adversely affect our cash flow. Any of the above risks
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
    market price of, our stock.


 



    We may
    be unable to complete renovation and development projects on
    advantageous terms.


 


    As part of our business, we develop new and renovate existing
    properties, and we intend to continue to expand and increase our
    investment in our development and renovation business. The real
    estate development and renovation business involves significant
    risks that could adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
    on, and the market price of, our stock, which include the
    following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects
    on favorable terms and complete construction on schedule or
    within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and
    construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and
    generating cash flow;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in
    obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy
    and other governmental permits and authorizations;



 


     
        • 

    
    the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing
    cash flow below budgeted amounts;



 


     
        • 

    
    substantial renovation and new development activities,
    regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a
    significant amount of management’s time and attention,
    diverting their attention from our
    day-to-day
    operations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    upon completion of construction, we may not be able to obtain,
    or obtain on advantageous terms, permanent financing for
    activities that we have financed through construction loans.





 



    Risks
    Associated With Our International Business


 



    Our
    international growth is subject to special risks and we may not
    be able to effectively manage our international
    growth.


 


    We have acquired and developed, and expect to continue to
    acquire and develop, properties outside the United States.
    Because local markets affect our operations, our international
    investments are subject to economic



    
    10



 




    fluctuations in the international locations in which we invest.
    In addition, our international operations are subject to the
    usual risks of doing business abroad such as revisions in tax
    treaties or other laws and regulations, including those
    governing the taxation of our international revenues,
    restrictions on the transfer of funds, and, in certain parts of
    the world, uncertainty over property rights and political
    instability. We cannot predict the likelihood that any of these
    developments may occur. Further, we have entered, and may in the
    future enter, into agreements with
    non-U.S. entities
    that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute
    resolution in the courts of, another country or region. We
    cannot accurately predict whether such a forum would provide us
    with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that
    may arise. And even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory
    decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could
    have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely
    basis or at all.


 


    We also have offices in many countries outside the United States
    and, as a result, our operations may be subject to risks that
    may limit our ability to effectively establish, staff and manage
    our offices outside the United States, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Differing employment practices and labor issues;



 


     
        • 

    
    Local business and cultural factors that differ from our usual
    standards and practices;



 


     
        • 

    
    Regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between
    jurisdictions; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Health concerns.





 


    Our global growth (including growth in new regions in the U.S.)
    subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with
    funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and
    establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the
    operations of new offices. In addition, payroll expenses are
    paid in local currencies and, therefore, we are exposed to risks
    associated with fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the
    U.S. dollar and these currencies.


 


    Further, our business has grown rapidly and continues to grow
    through international property acquisitions and developments. If
    we fail to effectively manage our international growth, then our
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock
    could be adversely affected.


 



    Acquired
    properties may be located in new markets, where we may face
    risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar
    market.


 


    We have acquired and may continue to acquire properties in
    international markets that are new to us. When we acquire
    properties located in these markets, we may face risks
    associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of
    the local economy, forging new business relationships in the
    area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting
    procedures. We work to mitigate such risks through extensive
    diligence and research and associations with experienced
    partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks
    will be eliminated.


 



    We are
    subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates
    between the U.S. dollar and the
    currencies of the other countries in which we
    invest.


 


    We are pursuing, and intend to continue to pursue, growth
    opportunities in international markets. As we invest in
    countries where the U.S. dollar is not the national
    currency, we are subject to international currency risks from
    the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the
    U.S. dollar and the currencies of those other countries. A
    significant depreciation in the value of the currency of one or
    more countries where we have a significant investment may
    materially affect our results of operations. We attempt to
    mitigate any such effects by borrowing under our multi-currency
    credit facility in the currency of the country we are investing
    in and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place
    international currency put option contracts to hedge exchange
    rate fluctuations. For leases denominated in international
    currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to
    manage the international currency exchange risk. We cannot,
    however, assure you that our efforts will successfully
    neutralize all international currency risks. If we do engage in
    international currency exchange rate hedging activities, any
    income recognized with respect to these hedges (as well as any
    international currency gain recognized with respect to changes
    in



    
    11



 




    exchange rates) may not qualify under the 75% gross income test
    or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in
    order to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate
    investment trust.


 



    General
    Business Risks


 



    Our
    performance and value are impacted by the local economic
    conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in
    California.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, our industrial properties located
    in California represented 25.3% of the aggregate square footage
    of our industrial operating properties and 25.4% of our
    industrial annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis.
    Our revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in
    California may be affected by local real estate conditions (such
    as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties)
    and the local economic climate. Business layoffs, downsizing,
    industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may
    adversely impact California’s economic climate. Because of
    the number of properties we have located in California, a
    downturn in California’s economy or real estate conditions
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
    market price of, our stock.


 



    We may
    experience losses that our insurance does not
    cover.


 


    We carry commercial liability, property and rental loss
    insurance covering all the properties that we own and manage in
    types and amounts that we believe are adequate and appropriate
    given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of
    coverage and industry practice. Certain losses, such as those
    due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be
    insured subject to certain limitations, including large
    deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. Although we have
    obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy
    specifications and insured limits that we consider commercially
    reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, we
    cannot be certain that we will be able to renew coverage on
    comparable terms or collect under such policies. In addition,
    there are other types of losses, such as those from riots,
    bio-terrorism or acts of war, that are not generally insured in
    our industry because it is not economically feasible to do so.
    We may incur material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and
    we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at
    commercially reasonable rates. If we experience a loss that is
    uninsured or that exceeds our insured limits with respect to one
    or more of our properties, then we could lose the capital
    invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated
    future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse
    debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or
    other financial obligations related to the properties. Moreover,
    as the general partner of the operating partnership, we
    generally will be liable for all of the operating
    partnership’s unsatisfied recourse obligations, including
    any obligations incurred by the operating partnership as the
    general partner of co-investment joint ventures. Any such losses
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
    market price of, our stock.


 


    A number of our properties are located in areas that are known
    to be subject to earthquake activity. U.S. properties
    located in active seismic areas include properties in the
    San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and Seattle. Our
    largest concentration of such properties is in California where,
    on an owned and managed basis, as of December 31, 2006, we
    had 267 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
    25.5 million square feet and representing 25.3% of our
    industrial operating properties based on aggregate square
    footage and 25.4% based on industrial annualized base rent, on
    an owned and managed basis. International properties located in
    active seismic areas include Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and Mexico
    City, Mexico. We carry earthquake insurance on all of our
    properties located in areas historically subject to seismic
    activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that
    we believe are commercially reasonable. We evaluate our
    earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current
    industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside
    consultants.


 


    A number of our properties are located in areas that are known
    to be subject to hurricane
    and/or flood
    risk. We carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of
    our properties located in areas historically subject to such
    activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that
    we believe are commercially reasonable. We evaluate our
    insurance coverage annually in light of current industry
    practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. In
    2005, various properties that we own or lease in New Orleans,
    Louisiana and South Florida suffered damage as a result of
    Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. Although we expect that our
    insurance will cover losses



    
    12



 




    arising from this damage in excess of the deductibles paid by us
    and do not believe that such losses would have a material
    adverse effect on our business, assets or results from
    operations, we cannot assure you that we will be reimbursed for
    all losses incurred.


 



    We are
    subject to risks and liabilities in connection with properties
    owned through joint ventures, limited liability companies and
    partnerships.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we owned approximately
    64.3 million square feet of our properties through several
    joint ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with
    third parties. Our organizational documents do not limit the
    amount of available funds that we may invest in partnerships,
    limited liability companies or joint ventures and we intend to
    continue to develop and acquire properties through joint
    ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships with
    other persons or entities when warranted by the circumstances.
    Such partners may share certain approval rights over major
    decisions. Partnership, limited liability company or joint
    venture investments involve certain risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    if our partners, co-members or joint venturers go bankrupt, then
    we and any other remaining general partners, members or joint
    venturers would generally remain liable for the
    partnership’s, limited liability company’s or joint
    venture’s liabilities;



 


     
        • 

    
    if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital
    contributions, then we may be required to contribute such
    capital;



 


     
        • 

    
    our partners, co-members or joint venturers might have economic
    or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with
    our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to
    operate the property;



 


     
        • 

    
    our partners, co-members or joint venturers may have the power
    to act contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or
    objectives, including our current policy with respect to
    maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust;



 


     
        • 

    
    the joint venture, limited liability and partnership agreements
    often restrict the transfer of a joint venture’s,
    member’s or partner’s interest or may otherwise
    restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on
    advantageous terms;



 


     
        • 

    
    our relationships with our partners, co-members or joint
    ventures are contractual in nature and may be terminated or
    dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event,
    we may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets
    underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such
    interests or assets at an above-market price to continue
    ownership;



 


     
        • 

    
    disputes between us and our partners, co-members or joint
    venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would
    increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors
    from focusing their time and effort on our business and result
    in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable
    partnership, limited liability company, or joint venture to
    additional risk; and



 


     
        • 

    
    we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our
    partners, co-members or joint venturers.





 


    We generally seek to maintain sufficient control of our
    partnerships, limited liability companies and joint ventures to
    permit us to achieve our business objectives, however, we may
    not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the
    events described above could adversely affect our financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.


 



    We may
    be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous terms or
    contribute properties.


 


    We intend to continue to divest ourselves of properties that do
    not meet our strategic objectives, provided that we can
    negotiate acceptable terms and conditions. Our ability to
    dispose of properties on advantageous terms depends on factors
    beyond our control, including competition from other sellers and
    the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of
    our properties. If we are unable to dispose of properties on
    favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property
    divestitures in accordance with our investment strategy, then
    our financial



    
    13



 




    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be
    adversely affected.


 


    We also anticipate contributing or selling properties to funds
    and joint ventures. If the funds are unable to raise additional
    capital on favorable terms after currently available capital is
    depleted or if the value of such properties are appraised at
    less than the cost of such properties, then such contributions
    or sales could be delayed or prevented, adversely affecting our
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.
    For example, although we have acquired land for development and
    made capital commitments in Japan and Mexico, we cannot be
    assured that we ultimately will be able to contribute such
    properties to funds or joint ventures as we have planned.


 



    Contingent
    or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    We have acquired and may in the future acquire properties
    subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only
    limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a
    result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon
    ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might
    have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely
    affect our cash flow. Contingent or unknown liabilities with
    respect to entities or properties acquired might include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    liabilities for environmental conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course
    of business;



 


     
        • 

    
    tax liabilities; and



 


     
        • 

    
    claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and
    directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the
    properties.





 



    We are
    dependent on external sources of capital.


 


    In order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we are
    required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least
    90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income
    (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and
    by excluding any net capital gain) and are taxed on our income
    to the extent it is not fully distributed. Consequently, we may
    not be able to fund all future capital needs, including
    acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from
    operations and must rely on third-party sources of capital.
    Further, in order to maintain our real estate investment trust
    status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may
    need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the real
    estate investment trust distribution requirements even if the
    then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these
    borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from
    differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and
    inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the
    effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of
    reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Our ability
    to access private debt and equity capital on favorable terms or
    at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general
    market conditions, the market’s perception of our growth
    potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash
    distributions and the market price of our capital stock.


 



    Debt
    Financing Risks


 



    We
    could incur more debt, increasing our debt
    service.


 


    It is our policy to incur debt, either directly or through our
    subsidiaries, only if it will not cause our share of total
    debt-to-our
    share of total market capitalization ratio to exceed
    approximately 45%. Our definition of “our share of total
    market capitalization” is our share of total debt plus
    preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. See
    footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table contained in
    Part II, Item 7: “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for
    our definitions of “market equity” and “our share
    of total debt.” The aggregate amount of indebtedness that
    we may incur under our policy increases directly with an
    increase in the market price per share of our capital stock.
    Further, our management could alter or eliminate this policy
    without stockholder approval. If we change this policy, then we



    
    14



 




    could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in
    debt service that could adversely affect the cash available for
    distribution to our stockholders.


 



    We
    face risks associated with the use of debt to fund acquisitions
    and developments, including refinancing risk.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we had total debt outstanding of
    $3.4 billion. We guarantee the operating partnership’s
    obligations with respect to the senior debt securities
    referenced in our financial statements. We are subject to risks
    normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that
    our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of
    principal and interest. We anticipate that we will repay only a
    small portion of the principal of our debt prior to maturity.
    Accordingly, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion
    of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we
    may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of
    any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our
    existing debt. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal
    payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds of other
    capital transactions, then we expect that our cash flow will not
    be sufficient in all years to pay dividends to our stockholders
    and to repay all such maturing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing
    interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such
    as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate
    loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then
    the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness
    would increase.


 


    In addition, if we mortgage one or more of our properties to
    secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet
    mortgage payments, then the property could be foreclosed upon or
    transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income
    and asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of our properties
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
    market price of, our stock.


 



    Covenants
    in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    The terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness
    require that we comply with a number of financial and other
    covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and
    leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. These
    covenants may limit flexibility in our operations, and our
    failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default
    under the applicable debt agreement even if we have satisfied
    our payment obligations. As of December 31, 2006, we had
    certain non-recourse, secured loans, which are
    cross-collateralized by multiple properties. If we default on
    any of these loans, we may then be required to repay such
    indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to
    avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties
    within the applicable pool. Foreclosure on our properties, or
    our inability to refinance our loans on favorable terms, could
    adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations,
    cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
    of, our stock. In addition, our credit facilities and senior
    debt securities contain certain cross-default provisions, which
    are triggered in the event that our other material indebtedness
    is in default. These cross-default provisions may require us to
    repay or restructure the credit facilities and the senior debt
    securities in addition to any mortgage or other debt that is in
    default, which could adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
    on, and the market price of, our stock.


 



    Failure
    to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect
    results of operations.


 


    We seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by
    using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate
    cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. These
    agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the
    counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
    arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in
    reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court
    could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable.
    Hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. Failure
    to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may
    materially adversely affect our results of operations.



    
    15



 



 



    Conflicts
    of Interest Risks


 



    Some
    of our directors and executive officers are involved in other
    real estate activities and investments and, therefore, may have
    conflicts of interest with us.


 


    From time to time, certain of our executive officers and
    directors may own interests in other real-estate related
    businesses and investments, including de minimis holdings of the
    equity securities of public and private real estate companies.
    Our executive officers’ involvement in other real
    estate-related activities could divert their attention from our
    day-to-day
    operations. Our executive officers have entered into
    non-competition agreements with us pursuant to which they have
    agreed not to engage in any activities, directly or indirectly,
    in respect of commercial real estate, and not to make any
    investment in respect of any industrial or retail real estate,
    other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the
    outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such
    activities or through certain specified investments. State law
    may limit our ability to enforce these agreements. We will not
    acquire any properties from our executive officers, directors or
    their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by a
    majority of the disinterested and independent (as defined by the
    rules of the New York Stock Exchange) members of our board of
    directors with respect to that transaction.


 



    Our
    role as general partner of the operating partnership may
    conflict with the interests of our stockholders.


 


    As the general partner of the operating partnership, we have
    fiduciary obligations to the operating partnership’s
    limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the
    interests of our stockholders. In addition, those persons
    holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as
    a class on certain amendments to the operating
    partnership’s partnership agreement and individually to
    approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their
    rights. The limited partners may exercise these voting rights in
    a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders.
    In addition, under the terms of the operating partnership’s
    partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will
    have certain approval rights with respect to certain
    transactions that affect all stockholders but which they may not
    exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of all
    stockholders.


 



    Risks
    Associated with Government Regulations


 



    The
    costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and
    any related potential liability could exceed our budgets for
    these items.


 


    Under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a
    current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be
    liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of
    certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at,
    on, under or in its property. The costs of removal or
    remediation of such substances could be substantial. These laws
    typically impose liability and
    clean-up
    responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator
    knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more
    than one person may have been responsible for the contamination,
    each person covered by the environmental laws may be held
    responsible for all of the
    clean-up
    costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or
    operator of a site for damages based on personal injury,
    property damage or other costs, including investigation and
    clean-up
    costs, resulting from the environmental contamination.


 


    Environmental laws in some countries, including the U.S., also
    require that owners or operators of buildings containing
    asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately
    inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos
    and undertake special precautions, including removal or other
    abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during
    building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines
    and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply
    with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek
    recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated
    with exposure to asbestos. Some of our properties may contain
    asbestos-containing building materials.


 


    In addition, some of our properties are leased or have been
    leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use,
    store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous
    or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of
    such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain of our
    properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that
    have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other
    hazardous or toxic



    
    16



 




    substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or
    may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or
    toxic substances. From time to time, we may acquire properties,
    or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental
    conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities
    associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the
    acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. In such
    an instance, we underwrite the costs of environmental
    investigation,
    clean-up and
    monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtain appropriate
    environmental insurance for the property. Further, in connection
    with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain
    responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or
    monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties.


 


    At the time of acquisition, we subject all of our properties to
    a Phase I or similar environmental assessments by
    independent environmental consultants and we may have additional
    Phase II testing performed upon the consultant’s
    recommendation. These environmental assessments have not
    revealed, and we are not aware of, any environmental liability
    that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
    Nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal
    all environmental liabilities and that there are material
    environmental liabilities unknown to us, or that known
    environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are
    greater than we anticipated. Further, our properties’
    current environmental condition may be affected by customers,
    the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the
    properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks) or
    by unrelated third parties. If the costs of compliance with
    existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed our
    budgets for these items, then our financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and
    the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected.


 



    Compliance
    or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
    and other similar regulations could result in substantial
    costs.


 


    Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public
    accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to
    access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result
    in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the
    award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to
    make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans
    with Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then
    our cash flow and the amounts available for dividends to our
    stockholders may be adversely affected. Our properties are also
    subject to various federal, state and local regulatory
    requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety
    requirements. We could incur fines or private damage awards if
    we fail to comply with these requirements. While we believe that
    our properties are currently in material compliance with these
    regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new
    requirements may be imposed that could require significant
    unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow
    and results of operations.


 



    Federal
    Income Tax Risks


 



    Our
    failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust would have
    serious adverse consequences to our stockholders.


 


    We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under
    Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”)
    commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1997.
    We currently intend to operate so as to qualify as a real estate
    investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code and believe
    that our current organization and method of operation comply
    with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal
    Revenue Code to enable us to continue to qualify as a real
    estate investment trust. However, it is possible that we have
    been organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow
    us to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or that our
    future operations could cause us to fail to qualify.
    Qualification as a real estate investment trust requires us to
    satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a
    quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex
    Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only
    limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and
    involves the determination of various factual matters and
    circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in
    order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we must
    derive at least 95% of our gross income in any year from
    qualifying sources. In addition, we must pay dividends to
    stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our real
    estate investment trust taxable income (determined without
    regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital
    gains) and must satisfy



    
    17



 




    specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. These provisions and
    the applicable Treasury regulations are more complicated in our
    case because we hold our assets through the operating
    partnership. Legislation, new regulations, administrative
    interpretations or court decisions could significantly change
    the tax laws with respect to qualification as a real estate
    investment trust or the federal income tax consequences of such
    qualification. However, we are not aware of any pending tax
    legislation that would adversely affect our ability to qualify
    as a real estate investment trust.


 


    If we fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any
    taxable year, then we will be required to pay federal income tax
    (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our
    taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are
    entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would
    be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust
    for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost
    qualification. If we lose our real estate investment trust
    status, then our net earnings available for investment or
    distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for
    each of the years involved. In addition, we would no longer be
    required to make distributions to our stockholders.


 



    Certain
    property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income,
    resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the
    transaction.


 


    From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some
    of our properties, including the contribution of properties to
    our joint venture funds. Under the Internal Revenue Code, any
    gain resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as
    inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary
    course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited
    transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. Since we acquire
    properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our
    occasional transfers or disposals of property or our
    contributions of properties into our joint venture funds are
    properly treated as prohibited transactions. However, whether
    property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact
    that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the
    particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend
    that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us or
    contributions of properties into our joint venture funds are
    prohibited transactions. While we believe that the Internal
    Revenue Service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the
    Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a
    transfer or disposition or contribution of property constituted
    a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a
    100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited
    transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction
    might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests
    for qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal
    income tax purposes.


 



    Risks
    Associated With Our Dependence on Key Personnel


 


    We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key
    employees. From time to time, our personnel and their roles may
    change. While we believe that we could find suitable employees
    to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any
    change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
    market price of, our stock. We do not have employment agreements
    with any of our executive officers.


 


    Because our compensation packages include equity-based
    incentives, pressure on our stock price or limitations on our
    ability to award such incentives could affect our ability to
    offer competitive compensation packages to our executives and
    key employees. If we are unable to continue to attract and
    retain our executive officers, or if compensation costs required
    to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our
    performance and competitive position could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    Risks
    Associated with Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures and
    Internal Control over Financial Reporting


 



    Our
    business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in
    our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over
    financial reporting.


 


    The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
    procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not
    prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While
    management will continue to review the effectiveness of our
    disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
    financial reporting,



    
    18



 




    there can be no guarantee that our internal control over
    financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all
    control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any
    material weakness, in our internal control over financial
    reporting which may occur in the future could result in
    misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our
    financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise
    materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of
    operations, financial condition or liquidity.


 



    Risks
    Associated with Ownership of Our Stock


 



    Limitations
    in our charter and bylaws could prevent a change in
    control.


 


    Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay, defer or
    prevent a change in control or other transaction that could
    provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to
    realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the
    common stock. To maintain our qualification as a real estate
    investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than
    50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, actually or
    constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the
    Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) during the
    last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for
    which a real estate investment trust election is made.
    Furthermore, our common stock must be held by a minimum of
    100 persons for at least 335 days of a
    12-month
    taxable year (or a proportionate part of a short tax year). In
    addition, if we, or an owner of 10% or more of our stock,
    actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of our
    customers (or a customer of any partnership in which we are a
    partner), then the rent received by us (either directly or
    through any such partnership) from that customer will not be
    qualifying income for purposes of the real estate investment
    trust gross income tests of the Internal Revenue Code. To help
    us maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust
    for federal income tax purposes, we prohibit the ownership,
    actually or by virtue of the constructive ownership provisions
    of the Internal Revenue Code, by any single person, of more than
    9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more
    restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of each of our
    common stock, series L preferred stock, series M
    preferred stock, series O preferred stock, and
    series P preferred stock. We also prohibit the ownership,
    actually or constructively, of any shares of our
    series D, I, J and K preferred stock by any single
    person so that no such person, taking into account all of our
    stock so owned by such person, including any common stock or
    other series of preferred stock, may own in excess of 9.8% of
    our issued and outstanding capital stock. We refer to this
    limitation as the “ownership limit.” Shares acquired
    or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred
    to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable
    beneficiary. Any person who acquires shares in violation of the
    ownership limit will not be entitled to any dividends on the
    shares or be entitled to vote the shares or receive any proceeds
    from the subsequent sale of the shares in excess of the lesser
    of the price paid for the shares or the amount realized from the
    sale. A transfer of shares in violation of the above limits may
    be void under certain circumstances. The ownership limit may
    have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in
    control and, therefore, could adversely affect our
    stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the
    then-prevailing market price for the shares of our common stock
    in connection with such transaction.


 


    Our charter authorizes us to issue additional shares of common
    and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and
    other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that we
    issue. Although our board of directors has no intention to do so
    at the present time, it could establish a series or class of
    preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying,
    deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in
    control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock
    or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.


 


    Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law also contain other
    provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders
    without approval of our board of directors, which in turn may
    delay, defer or prevent a transaction, including a change in
    control. Those provisions in our charter and bylaws include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a
    two-thirds vote of stockholders;



 


     
        • 

    
    our board can fix the number of directors within set limits
    (which limits are subject to change by our board), and fill
    vacant directorships upon the vote of a majority of the
    remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the
    case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the
    board, a majority of the entire board;






    
    19



 



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or
    propose business for consideration at a stockholders’
    meeting; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the request of the holders of 50% or more of our common stock is
    necessary for stockholders to call a special meeting.





 


    Those provisions provided for under Maryland law include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend our
    charter; and



 


     
        • 

    
    stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous
    approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in
    question.





 


    In addition, our board could elect to adopt, without stockholder
    approval, certain other provisions under Maryland law that may
    impede a change in control.


 



    The
    market value of our stock could be substantially affected by
    various factors.


 


    As with other publicly traded securities, the trading price of
    our stock will depend on many factors that are not within our
    control and may change from time to time, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the extent of investor interest in us;



 


     
        • 

    
    the market for similar securities issued by real estate
    investment trusts;



 


     
        • 

    
    the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the
    attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other
    equity securities (including securities issued by other real
    estate-based companies);



 


     
        • 

    
    general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in
    interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead
    prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual
    yield from future dividends;



 


     
        • 

    
    terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which our
    securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and
    causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence
    and spending;



 


     
        • 

    
    general economic conditions; and



 


     
        • 

    
    our financial condition, performance and prospects.





 


    Other factors such as governmental regulatory action and changes
    in tax laws could also have a significant impact on the future
    trading price of our stock.


 



    If we
    issue additional securities, then the investment of existing
    stockholders will be diluted.


 


    As a real estate investment trust, we are dependent on external
    sources of capital and may issue common or preferred stock or
    debt securities to fund our future capital needs. We have
    authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or
    debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or AMB
    Property II, L.P., to issue limited partnership units, in
    exchange for property or otherwise. Existing stockholders have
    no preemptive right to acquire any additional securities issued
    by the operating partnership, AMB Property II, L.P., or us
    and any issuance of additional equity securities may adversely
    effect the market price of our stock and could result in
    dilution of an existing stockholder’s investment.


 



    Earnings,
    cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the
    price of our stock.


 


    As a real estate investment trust, the market value of our
    equity securities, in general, is based primarily upon the
    market’s perception of our growth potential and our current
    and potential future earnings and cash dividends. Our equity
    securities’ market value is based secondarily upon the
    market value of our underlying real estate assets. For this
    reason, shares of our stock may trade at prices that are higher
    or lower than our net asset value per share. To the extent that
    we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working
    capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while
    increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not
    correspondingly increase the market price of our stock. Our
    failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to
    future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect
    the market price of our stock. Further, the distribution yield
    on the stock (as



    
    20



 




    a percentage of the price of the stock) relative to market
    interest rates may also influence the price of our stock. An
    increase in market interest rates might lead prospective
    purchasers of our stock to expect a higher distribution yield,
    which would adversely affect our stock’s market price.
    Additionally, if the market price of our stock declines
    significantly, then we might breach certain covenants with
    respect to our debt obligations, which could adversely affect
    our liquidity and ability to make future acquisitions and our
    ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.


 



    We
    could change our investment and financing policies without a
    vote of stockholders.


 


    Subject to our current investment policy to maintain our
    qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change
    is approved by our board of directors under certain
    circumstances), our board of directors determines our investment
    and financing policies, our growth strategy and our debt,
    capitalization, distribution and operating policies. Our board
    of directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies
    at any time without a vote of stockholders. Any such changes may
    not serve the interests of all stockholders and could adversely
    affect our financial condition or results of operations,
    including our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.


 



    Shares
    available for future sale could adversely affect the market
    price of our common stock.


 


    The operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. had
    4,709,056 common limited partnership units issued and
    outstanding as of December 31, 2006, which may be exchanged
    generally one year after their issuance on a
    one-for-one
    basis into shares of our common stock. In the future, the
    operating partnership or AMB Property II, L.P. may issue
    additional limited partnership units, and we may issue shares of
    common stock, in connection with the acquisition of properties
    or in private placements. These shares of common stock and the
    shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of limited
    partnership units may be sold in the public securities markets
    over time, pursuant to registration rights that we have granted,
    or may grant in connection with future issuances, or pursuant to
    Rule 144. In addition, common stock issued under our stock
    option and incentive plans may also be sold in the market
    pursuant to registration statements that we have filed or
    pursuant to Rule 144. As of December 31, 2006, under
    our stock option and incentive plans, we had
    3,230,106 shares of common stock reserved and available for
    future issuance, had outstanding options to purchase
    6,843,025 shares of common stock (of which 5,404,361 are
    vested and exercisable) and had 611,549 unvested restricted
    shares of common stock outstanding. Future sales of a
    substantial number of shares of our common stock in the market
    or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely
    affect the market price of our common stock. Further, the
    existence of the operating partnership’s limited
    partnership units and the shares of our common stock reserved
    for issuance upon exchange of limited partnership units and the
    exercise of options, and registration rights referred to above,
    may adversely affect the terms upon which we are able to obtain
    additional capital through the sale of equity securities.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B