Item 1A
 
 Risk Factors.
 
10

 Item 1B
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments.
 
16

 Item 2
 
 Properties.
 
16

 Item 3
 
 Legal Proceedings.
 
17

 Item 4
 
 Reserved 
 
17

 Executive Officers of the Registrant <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:1px; margin-left:1.00em; text-indent:-1.00em">Directors of the Registrant
 
17 17




 PART II
 


 Item 5
 
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

 
18


 
 Common Stock Performance Graph
 
19

 Item 6
 
 Selected Financial Data.
 
20

 Item 7
 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
 
22

 Item 7A
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
 
86

 Item 8
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
 
87

 Item 9
 
 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure.
 
175

 Item 9A
 
 Controls and Procedures.
 
175

 Item 9B
 
 Other Information.
 
176




 PART III
 






 Item 10
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.
 
176

 Item 11
 
 Executive Compensation.
 
176

 Item 12
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters.
 
176

 Item 13
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.
 
178

 Item 14
 
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services.
 
178





 PART IV
 

 


 Item 15
 
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 
 
178

 SIGNATURES
 
179

 EXHIBIT INDEX
 
E-1 PART I 
 Forward-Looking Statements: From time to time, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (PNC or the Corporation) has made and may continue to
make written or oral forward-looking statements regarding our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses, capital levels, liquidity levels, asset quality or other future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations, or
the impact of legal, regulatory or supervisory matters on our business operations or performance. This Annual Report on Form 10-K (the Report or Form 10-K) also includes forward-looking statements. With respect to all such forward-looking
statements, you should review our Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A and our Risk Management, Critical Accounting Policies and Judgments, and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information sections included in Item 7 of this
Report.   

 ITEM 1 – BUSINESS  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">BUSINESS OVERVIEW Headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial services
companies in the United States. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and institutional banking, asset management, residential mortgage banking and global investment servicing, providing many of our products and services nationally
and others in our primary geographic markets located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Maryland, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Missouri, Virginia, Delaware, Washington, D.C., and Wisconsin. We also provide certain investment
servicing internationally. At December 31, 2009, our consolidated total assets, deposits and shareholders’ equity were $269.9 billion, $186.9 billion and $29.9 billion, respectively.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">As described further below and elsewhere in this Report, on December 31, 2008, PNC acquired National City Corporation (National City). Our consolidated
financial statements for 2009 reflect the impact of National City.  We were incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in
1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through internal growth, strategic bank and non-bank
acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries.  ACQUISITION OF
NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION  On December 31, 2008, we acquired National City for
approximately $6.1 billion. The total consideration included approximately $5.6 billion of PNC common stock, $150 million of preferred stock, and cash of $379 million paid to warrant holders by National City.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Following the closing, PNC received $7.6 billion from the US Department of the Treasury (US Treasury) under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008
(EESA) in exchange for the issuance of preferred stock and a warrant. These proceeds were used to enhance National City Bank’s regulatory capital position to well-capitalized in order to continue serving the credit and deposit needs of existing
and new customers. On a consolidated basis, these proceeds resulted in further improvement to our capital and liquidity positions. See Repurchase of Outstanding TARP Preferred Stock below for additional information.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">National City, based in Cleveland, Ohio, was one of the nation’s largest financial services companies. In connection with obtaining regulatory
approvals for the acquisition, PNC agreed to divest 61 of National City Bank’s branches in Western Pennsylvania. This divestiture, which included $4.1 billion of deposits and $.8 billion of loans, was completed during the third quarter of 2009.


  
 2 







 
Additional information regarding our acquisition of National City can be found in Item 7 and Item 8 of this Report.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">REPURCHASE OF OUTSTANDING TARP PREFERRED STOCK  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">See Note 19 Equity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report regarding our December 31, 2008, issuance of $7.6
billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares, Series N (Series N Preferred Stock), and the related warrant to the US Treasury under the US Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Capital Purchase Program.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">As approved by the Federal Reserve Board, the US Treasury and our other banking regulators, on February 10, 2010, we redeemed all 75,792 shares of our
Series N Preferred Stock totaling $7.6 billion held by the US Treasury. We used the net proceeds from our February 2010 common stock and senior notes offerings and other funds to redeem the Series N Preferred Stock. We did not exercise our right to
seek to repurchase the related warrant at the time we redeemed the Series N Preferred Stock.  Note 28 Subsequent Events in Item 8 of this
Report has additional information regarding the redemption of the Series N Preferred Stock and the February 2010 common stock and senior notes offerings.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">PENDING SALE OF PNC GLOBAL INVESTMENT SERVICING  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">On February 2, 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell PNC Global Investment Servicing Inc. (GIS), a leading provider of processing,
technology and business intelligence services to asset managers, broker-dealers and financial advisors worldwide, for $2.3 billion in cash. Upon completion of the sale, we expect to report an after-tax gain of approximately $455 million. 
We currently anticipate closing the transaction in the third quarter of 2010. Completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and
certain other closing conditions. If the sale of GIS has not been completed by November 1, 2010, we will be required, on or before that date, to raise $700 million in additional Tier 1 common capital. We would do this either through the sale of
assets approved by the Federal Reserve Board and/or through the issuance of additional common stock. See Item 1A Risk Factors for further information.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">In addition to National City and GIS, we include information on other significant acquisitions and divestitures in Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures in Item 8 of this Report and here by reference.
 REVIEW OF LINES OF BUSINESS In the first
quarter of 2009, we made changes to our business organization structure and management reporting in conjunction with the National City acquisition. In addition to the following information relating to our lines of business, we incorporate
information under the captions Line of Business Highlights, Product Revenue, and


 
Business Segments Review in Item 7 of this Report here by reference. Also, we include financial and other information by business in Note 27 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report here by reference.  Assets, revenue and earnings attributable to foreign activities were
not material in the periods presented. Business segment results for periods prior to 2009 have been reclassified to reflect current methodologies and current business and management structure and to present those periods on the same basis but do not
include the impact of National City, which we acquired on December 31, 2008. As a result of its pending sale, GIS is no longer a reportable business segment.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Retail Banking provides deposit, lending, brokerage, trust, investment management, and cash management services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic
markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, call centers and the internet. The branch network is located primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Maryland, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Missouri, Virginia,
Delaware, Washington, DC and Wisconsin.  Our core strategy is to acquire and retain customers who maintain their primary checking and
transaction relationships with PNC. We also seek revenue growth by deepening our share of our customers’ financial assets, including savings and liquidity deposits, loans and investable assets. A key element of our strategy is to expand the use
of alternative distribution channels while continuing to optimize the traditional branch network. In addition, we have a disciplined process to continually improve the engagement of both our employees and customers, which is a strong indicator for
customer growth, retention and relationship expansion.  Corporate & Institutional Banking provides lending, treasury
management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized corporations, government and not-for-profit entities, and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and
equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital markets-related products and
services include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory and related services to middle-market companies, securities underwriting, and securities sales and trading. Corporate & Institutional
Banking also provides commercial loan servicing, and real estate advisory and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Corporate & Institutional Banking provides products and services generally within our
primary geographic markets with certain products and services offered nationally. 

  
 3 







 Corporate & Institutional Banking is focused on becoming a premier provider of financial services
in each of the markets it serves. The value proposition to its customers is driven by providing a broad range of competitive and high quality products and services by a team fully committed to delivering the comprehensive resources of PNC to help
each client succeed. Corporate & Institutional Banking’s primary goals are to achieve market share growth and enhanced returns by means of expansion and retention of customer relationships and prudent risk and expense management.
 Asset Management Group includes personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high net worth clients and
institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services include financial planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions and trust management and administration for individuals and their
families. Institutional asset management provides investment management, custody, and retirement planning services. The institutional clients include corporations, foundations and unions and charitable endowments located primarily in our geographic
footprint. This segment includes the asset management businesses acquired through the National City acquisition and the legacy PNC wealth management business previously included in the Retail Banking segment.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Asset Management Group is focused on becoming one of the premier bank-held wealth and institutional asset managers in each of the markets it serves. The
business seeks to deliver high quality advice and investment management to our high net worth, ultra high net worth and institutional client sectors through a full array of products and services. Asset Management Group’s primary goals are to
service its clients, grow its business and deliver solid financial performance with prudent risk and expense management.  Residential
Mortgage Banking directly originates primarily first lien residential mortgage loans on a nationwide basis with a significant presence within our retail banking footprint and also originates loans through joint venture partners. Mortgage
loans represent loans collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate and are made to borrowers in good credit standing. These loans are typically underwritten to government agency and/or third party standards, and sold, servicing
retained, to primary mortgage market conduits Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), Federal Home Loan Banks and third-party investors, or are securitized and issued under the
Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae) program. The mortgage servicing operation performs all functions related to servicing first mortgage loans for various investors. Certain loans originated through our joint ventures are serviced
by a joint venture partner. In November 2009, we reduced our joint venture relationship related to our legacy PNC business and rebranded the former National City Mortgage as PNC Mortgage.  <FONT
SIZE="1"> 

 Residential Mortgage Banking is focused on adding value to the PNC franchise by building stronger customer
relationships, providing quality investment loans, and delivering acceptable returns under a moderate risk profile. Our national distribution capability provides volume that drives economies of scale, risk dispersion, and cost-effective extension of
the retail banking footprint for cross-selling opportunities.  BlackRock is the largest publicly traded investment management
firm in the world. BlackRock manages assets on behalf of institutional and individual investors worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, multi-asset class, alternative and cash management separate accounts and funds. In addition,
BlackRock provides market risk management, financial markets advisory and enterprise investment system services globally to a broad base of clients.  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">At December 31, 2009, our share of BlackRock’s earnings was approximately 23%. Our investment in BlackRock is a strategic asset of PNC and a key component of our diversified earnings stream. The ability of BlackRock to grow assets
under management is the key driver of increases in its revenue, earnings and, ultimately, shareholder value. BlackRock’s strategies for growth in assets under management include a focus on achieving client investment performance objectives in a
manner consistent with their risk preferences and delivering excellent client service. The business dedicates significant resources to attracting and retaining talented professionals and to the ongoing enhancement of its investment technology and
operating capabilities to deliver on this strategy.  Distressed Assets Portfolio includes commercial residential development
loans, cross-border leases, consumer brokered home equity loans, retail mortgages, non-prime mortgages, and residential construction loans. These loans require special servicing and management oversight given current market conditions. The majority
of these loans are from acquisitions, primarily National City. Total loans were $18.5 billion at December 31, 2009.  The business
activities of this segment are focused on maximizing the value of the assets while mitigating risk. Business intent drives the inclusion of assets in this business segment. Not all impaired loans are included in this business segment, nor are all of
the loans included in this business segment considered impaired. The fair value marks taken upon our acquisition of National City, the team we have in place and targeted asset resolution strategies help us to manage these assets. Additionally, our
capital and liquidity positions provide us flexibility in a challenging environment to optimize returns on this portfolio for our shareholders.  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">SUBSIDIARIES Our corporate legal structure at December 31, 2009 consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and approximately 153 active non-bank


  
 4 







 
subsidiaries. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank, N.A.), headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">We merged the charter of PNC Bank Delaware into PNC Bank, N.A. in August 2009 and merged the charter of National City Bank into PNC Bank, N.A. in November 2009. Our non-bank subsidiary, GIS, has a banking
license in Ireland and a branch in Luxembourg, which allow GIS to provide depositary services as part of its business. For additional information on our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES The
following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference:   







  
  
Form 10-K page

 Average Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis
  
171

 Analysis Of Year-To-Year Changes In Net Interest Income
  
170

 Book Values Of Securities
  
33-37 and 113-117

 Maturities And Weighted-Average Yield Of Securities
  
116

 Loan Types
  
30, 108 and 172

 Selected Loan Maturities And Interest Sensitivity
  
174-175

 Nonaccrual, Past Due And Restructured Loans And Other Nonperforming Assets
  
67-70, 110 and 172

 Potential Problem Loans And Loans Held For Sale
  
37 and 67-70

 Summary Of Loan Loss Experience
  
68-70 and 173

 Assignment Of Allowance For Loan And Lease Losses
  
68-70 and 173

 Average Amount And Average Rate Paid On Deposits
  
171

 Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More
  
132 and 175

 Selected Consolidated Financial Data
  
20-21 <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">SUPERVISION AND REGULATION  OVERVIEW  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">PNC is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 as amended (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB Act).  We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. You should also
read Note 23 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, included here by reference, for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict
permissible activities and investments and require compliance with


 
protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, mutual fund and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or to receive dividends from bank
subsidiaries and impose capital adequacy requirements. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions.  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">In addition, we are subject to comprehensive examination and supervision by, among other regulatory bodies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC),
which results in examination reports and ratings (which are not publicly available) that can impact the conduct and growth of our businesses. These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but also capital
levels, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. An examination downgrade by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on
our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity where the agencies determine, among other things, that such operations are unsafe or
unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our
operations.  We are also subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by virtue of our status as a public company and
due to the nature of some of our businesses.  As a regulated financial services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are
of fundamental importance to the continuation and growth of our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, SEC, and other domestic and foreign regulators have broad enforcement powers, and powers to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications
or notices to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses or assets and deposits, or reconfigure existing operations.  Due to the
current economic environment and issues facing the financial services industry, we anticipate new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, including many focused specifically on banking and other financial services in
which we are engaged. These initiatives will be in addition to the actions already taken by Congress and the regulators, including EESA, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act), the Credit CARD Act of 2009 (Credit CARD
Act), and the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act (the SAFE Act), as well as changes to the regulations implementing the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Federal Truth in Lending Act, and the Electronic Fund Transfer
Act. Developments to date, as well as those that come in the future,


  
 5 







 
have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. The more detailed description of the significant regulations to which we are subject that follows is based on
the current regulatory environment and is subject to potentially material change.  On May 7, 2009, the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System announced the results of the stress tests conducted by banking regulators under the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program with respect to the 19 largest bank holding companies. As a result of this test, the Federal Reserve concluded
that PNC was well capitalized but that, in order to provide a greater cushion against the risk that economic conditions over the next two years are worse than currently anticipated, PNC needed to augment the composition of its capital by increasing
the common shareholders’ equity component of Tier 1 capital. In May 2009 we raised $624 million in new common equity at market prices through the issuance of 15 million shares of common stock. In connection with the Supervisory Capital
Assessment Program, we submitted a capital plan which was accepted by the Federal Reserve.  In light of the economic uncertainties and the
actions taken by Congress, the US Department of the Treasury and other regulatory agencies to address the credit crisis, there is an increased focus by regulators on lending activities by banks and the relationship between those activities and
governmental efforts to improve this situation. Also at least in part driven by the current economic and financial situation, there is an increased focus on fair lending and other issues related to the mortgage industry. Ongoing mortgage-related
regulatory reforms include measures aimed at limiting mortgage foreclosures.  There has been a heightened focus recently on consumer
protection issues generally, including those related to the protection of confidential customer information and fees assessed on deposits and credit card accounts.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Among other areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory focus over the last several years has been compliance with anti-money laundering rules and regulations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the SEC, other federal and state regulatory authorities and
self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules may directly affect the method of operation and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our businesses could also be affected by
rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities in general, including changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding companies. Accord-


 
ingly, the following discussion is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws and regulations that apply to us.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">BANK REGULATION  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">As a bank holding company and a financial holding company, we are subject to supervision and regular inspection by the Federal Reserve. PNC Bank, N.A. and its subsidiaries are subject to supervision and
examination by applicable federal banking agencies, principally the OCC.  Because of PNC’s voting ownership interest in BlackRock,
BlackRock is subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve.  Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends. The
principal source of our liquidity at the parent company level is dividends from PNC Bank, N.A. PNC Bank, N.A. is subject to various federal restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent. PNC Bank N.A. is also
subject to federal laws limiting extensions of credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed in Note 23 Regulatory Matters included in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, which is
incorporated herein by reference. Further information on bank level liquidity and parent company liquidity and on certain contractual restrictions is also available in the Liquidity Risk Management section and in the “Perpetual Trust
Securities”, “PNC Capital Trust E Trust Preferred Securities”, and “Acquired Entity Trust Preferred Securities” sections of the Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and VIEs section of Item 7 of this Report.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Under Federal Reserve policy, a bank holding company is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary bank and to commit resources
to support such bank. Consistent with the “source of strength” policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company generally should not maintain a rate of cash dividends
unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation’s capital needs, asset quality and overall
financial condition.  Additional Powers Under the GLB Act. The GLB Act permits a qualifying bank holding company to become a
“financial holding company” and thereby to affiliate with financial companies engaging in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a bank holding company. Permitted affiliates include securities underwriters and
dealers, insurance companies and companies engaged in other activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or are determined by
the Federal Reserve unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. We became a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000. 

  
 6 







 
The Federal Reserve is the “umbrella” regulator of a financial holding company, with its operating entities, such as its subsidiary
broker-dealers, investment managers, investment companies, insurance companies and banks, also subject to the jurisdiction of various federal and state “functional” regulators with normal regulatory responsibility for companies in their
lines of business.  As subsidiaries of a financial holding company under the GLB Act, our non-bank subsidiaries are allowed to conduct new
financial activities or acquire non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve. In addition, our non-bank subsidiaries (and any financial subsidiaries of subsidiary banks) are now permitted to engage in certain
activities that were not permitted for banks and bank holding companies prior to enactment of the GLB Act, and to engage on less restrictive terms in certain activities that were previously permitted. Among other activities, we currently rely on our
status as a financial holding company to conduct mutual fund distribution activities, merchant banking activities, and securities underwriting and dealing activities.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">In addition, the GLB Act permits national banks, such as PNC Bank, N.A., to engage in expanded activities through the formation of a “financial subsidiary.” In order to qualify to establish or
acquire a financial subsidiary, PNC Bank, N.A. must be “well capitalized” and “well managed” and may not have a less than “satisfactory” Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating. A national bank that is one of the
largest 50 insured banks in the United States, such as PNC Bank, N.A., must also have issued debt (which, for this purpose, may include the uninsured portion of a national bank’s long-term certificates of deposit) with certain minimum ratings.
PNC Bank, N.A. has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the OCC and currently engages in insurance agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank, N.A. may also generally engage through a financial subsidiary in any activity
that is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity. Certain activities, however, are impermissible for a financial subsidiary of a national bank, including insurance under-writing, insurance investments, real estate investment or
development, and merchant banking.  Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation. The federal banking agencies possess broad powers
to take corrective action as deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its holding company. The extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in question is considered “well capitalized,” “adequately
capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Generally, the smaller an institution’s capital base in relation to its risk-weighted assets, the greater
the scope and severity of the agencies’ powers, ultimately permitting the agencies to appoint a receiver for the institution. Business activities may also be influenced by an institution’s capital classification. For instance, only a
“well capitalized” depository institution may accept


 
brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval and an “adequately capitalized” depository institution may accept brokered deposits only with prior regulatory approval. At
December 31, 2009, PNC Bank, N.A. exceeded the required ratios for classification as “well capitalized.” For additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, we refer you to “Funding and Capital Sources” in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of Item 7 of this Report and to Note 23 Regulatory Matters included in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Laws and regulations limit the scope of our permitted activities and investments. In addition to the activities that would be permitted to be conducted by a
financial subsidiary, national banks (such as PNC Bank, N.A.) and their operating subsidiaries may engage in any activities that are determined by the OCC to be part of or incidental to the business of banking.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Moreover, examination ratings of “3” or lower, lower capital ratios than peer group institutions, regulatory concerns regarding management,
controls, assets, operations or other factors, can all potentially result in practical limitations on the ability of a bank or bank holding company to engage in new activities, grow, acquire new businesses, repurchase its stock or pay dividends, or
to continue to conduct existing activities.  The Federal Reserve’s prior approval is required whenever we propose to acquire all or
substantially all of the assets of any bank or thrift, to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank or thrift, or to merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company or thrift holding
company. When reviewing bank acquisition applications for approval, the Federal Reserve considers, among other things, each subsidiary bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities it serves in accordance with the CRA. Our
ability to grow through acquisitions could be limited by these approval requirements.  At December 31, 2009, PNC Bank, N.A. was rated
“outstanding” with respect to CRA.  FDIC Insurance. PNC Bank, N.A. is insured by the FDIC and subject to premium
assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are “risk based.” Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower
capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles take into account weaknesses that are found by the primary banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank. A negative evaluation by the FDIC or a bank’s primary
federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank and result in an aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks in a lower risk category. 

  
 7 







 
SECURITIES AND RELATED REGULATION  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">The SEC, together with either the OCC or the Federal Reserve, regulates our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are also subject to
rules and regulations promulgated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), among others.  Several of our subsidiaries are
registered with the SEC as investment advisers and provide services both directly to clients and to PNC affiliates and related entities, including registered investment companies. Our investment advisor subsidiaries are subject to the requirements
of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and the SEC’s regulations thereunder. The principal purpose of the regulations applicable to investment advisers is the protection of clients and the securities markets, rather than the
protection of creditors and shareholders of investment advisors. The regulations applicable to investment advisers cover all aspects of the investment advisory business, including limitations on the ability of investment advisers to charge
performance-based or non-refundable fees to clients; record-keeping; operational, marketing and reporting requirements; disclosure requirements; limitations on principal transactions between an adviser or its affiliates and advisory clients; as well
as general anti-fraud prohibitions. These investment advisory subsidiaries also may be subject to state securities laws and regulations.  In
addition, our investment advisory subsidiaries that are investment advisors to registered investment companies and other managed accounts are subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the SEC’s
regulations thereunder, including PNC Capital Advisors, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of PNC Bank, N.A. and registered investment advisor. GIS is subject to regulation by the SEC as a service provider to registered investment companies. 
Over the past several years, the SEC and other governmental agencies have been investigating the mutual fund and hedge fund industries, including PNC
Capital Advisors, LLC, GIS and other industry participants. The SEC has proposed various rules, and legislation has been introduced in Congress, intended to reform the regulation of these industries. The effect of regulatory reform has, and is
likely to continue to, increase the extent of regulation of the mutual fund and hedge fund industries and impose additional compliance obligations and costs on our subsidiaries involved with those industries.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Under provisions of the federal securities laws applicable to broker-dealers, investment advisers and registered investment companies and their service
providers, a determination by a court or regulatory agency that certain violations have occurred at a company or its affiliates can result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain
activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations can also affect a public company in its timing


 
and ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into
account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Our securities businesses with operations outside the United States, including BlackRock and GIS, are also subject to regulation by appropriate authorities
in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business.  BlackRock has subsidiaries in securities and related businesses subject to SEC and
FINRA regulation, as described above, and a federally chartered nondepository trust company subsidiary subject to the supervision and regulation of the OCC. For additional information about the regulation of BlackRock, we refer you to the discussion
under the “Regulation” section of Item 1 Business in BlackRock’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained electronically at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">COMPETITION  We are subject to intense
competition from various financial institutions and from non-bank entities that engage in similar activities without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">In making loans, PNC Bank, N.A. competes with traditional banking institutions as well as consumer finance companies, leasing companies and other non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including
CLO managers, hedge funds, mutual fund complexes and private equity firms. Loan pricing, structure and credit standards are extremely important in the current environment as we seek to achieve risk-adjusted returns. Traditional deposit activities
are subject to pricing pressures and customer migration as a result of intense competition for consumer investment dollars.  PNC Bank, N.A.
competes for deposits with the following: 


 
•
 
 Other commercial banks, 


 
•
 
 Savings banks, 


 
•
 
 Savings and loan associations, 


 
•
 
 Credit unions, 


 
•
 
 Treasury management service companies, 


 
•
 
 Insurance companies, and 


 
•
 
 Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:18px;margin-bottom:0px">Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and private equity activities compete with the following: 


 
•
 
 Commercial banks, 


 
•
 
 Investment banking firms, 


 
•
 
 Merchant banks, 

  
 8 










 
•
 
 Insurance companies, 


 
•
 
 Private equity firms, and 


 
•
 
 Other investment vehicles.  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with the following: 


 
•
 
 Investment management firms, 


 
•
 
 Large banks and other financial institutions, 


 
•
 
 Brokerage firms, 


 
•
 
 Mutual fund complexes, and 


 
•
 
 Insurance companies.  We
include here by reference the additional information regarding competition included in the Item 1A Risk Factors section of this Report.  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">EMPLOYEES Employees totaled 55,820 at December 31, 2009. This total includes 49,761 full-time and 6,059 part-time employees. This total also includes 4,450 GIS employees.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">SEC REPORTS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other
information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is 001-09718. You may read and copy this information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of
the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  You can also obtain copies of this information by mail from the Public
Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.  The SEC also maintains an internet website that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. You can also inspect reports, proxy statements and other information
about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.  We also make our Annual Report on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on or through our internet website
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. PNC’s corporate internet address is www.pnc.com and you can find this information at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and
bondholders may also obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting Shareholder Services at 800-982-7652 or via the online contact form at www.computershare.com/contactus for copies without


 
exhibits, or by contacting Shareholder Relations at 800-843-2206 or via e-mail at investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of exhibits. The interactive data file (XBRL) exhibit is only available
electronically.  Information about our Board and its committees and corporate governance at PNC is available on PNC’s corporate website
at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. Our PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of the PNC Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors or executive officers (including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller) will be posted at this internet address.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our Corporate Governance Guidelines or the charters
of our Board’s Audit, Nominating and Governance, or Personnel and Compensation Committees (all of which are posted on the PNC corporate website) may do so by sending their requests to George P. Long, III, Corporate Secretary, at corporate
headquarters at One PNC Plaza, 249 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2707. Copies will be provided without charge to shareholders.  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PNC.”  INTERNET INFORMATION
 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.’s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the
internet at www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors in portions of our corporate website, such as the Investor Events and Financial Information areas that you can find under “About PNC – Investor Relations.” In this section,
we will from time to time post information that we believe may be important or useful to investors. We generally post the following shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases (including earnings
releases), various SEC filings, presentation materials associated with earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and access to live and taped audio from such calls or events. When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite
public access to time-critical information regarding PNC in advance of distribution of a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information. You can also find the SEC reports and corporate governance information described in the
section above in the Investor Relations section of our website.  Where we have included web addresses in this Report, such as our web address
and web addresses of the SEC and of BlackRock, we have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part of this Report.


  
 9 







 ITEM 1A – RISK
FACTORS  We are subject to a number of risks potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows. Indeed, as a financial services organization, certain elements of risk are inherent in every one of our transactions and are present in every business decision we make. Thus, we encounter risk as part of the normal course of our
business, and we design risk management processes to help manage these risks.  There are risks that are known to exist at the outset of a
transaction. For example, every loan transaction presents credit risk (the risk that the borrower may not perform in accordance with contractual terms) and interest rate risk (a potential loss in earnings or economic value due to adverse movement in
market interest rates or credit spreads), with the nature and extent of these risks principally depending on the identity of the borrower and overall economic conditions. These risks are inherent in every loan transaction; if we wish to make loans,
we must manage these risks through the terms and structure of the loans and through management of our deposits and other funding sources.  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Risk management is an important part of our business model. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to identify, understand and manage the risks presented by our business activities so that we can balance appropriately
revenue generation and profitability with these inherent risks. Our shareholders have been well served by our focus on maintaining a moderate risk profile. At December 31, 2008 with an economy then in severe recession and with our then recent
acquisition of National City, our Consolidated Balance Sheet did not reflect that desired risk profile. However, by December 31, 2009 we had made significant progress in bringing our risk issues back into alignment and in transitioning our
balance sheet to reflect our business model. We remain committed to returning to a moderate risk profile characterized by disciplined credit management and limited exposure to earnings volatility resulting from interest rate fluctuations and the
shape of the interest rate yield curve. We discuss our principal risk management processes and, in appropriate places, related historical performance in the Risk Management section included in Item 7 of this Report.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">The following are the key risk factors that affect us. In general, each of these risk factors presents the risk of a material impact on our results of
operations or financial condition, in addition to other possible consequences described below. These risk factors and other risks are also discussed further in other parts of this Report.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Risks related to current economic conditions  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The failure or slowing of the current modest economic recovery from recessionary conditions, or further turmoil or volatility in the financial markets, would likely have an adverse effect on our
business, financial position and results of operations.   

 The economy in the United States and globally began to recover from severe recessionary conditions near
mid-year 2009 and is currently in the midst of a modest economic recovery. The sustainability of the modest recovery is dependent on a number of factors that are not within our control, such as a return to private sector job growth, strengthening of
housing sales and construction, continuation of the economic recovery globally, and the timing of the exit from government credit easing policies. We continue to face risks resulting from the aftermath of the severe recession generally and the
modest pace of the current recovery. A slowing or failure of the economic recovery could bring a return to some or all of the adverse effects of the earlier recessionary conditions.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Since the middle of 2007 and with a heightened level of activity in 2008 and 2009, there has been disruption and turmoil in financial markets around the world. Throughout much of the United States there
were dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, and deepening recessionary conditions in the economy led to increased unemployment and underemployment and to reduced earnings, or in some cases
losses, for businesses across many industries, with reduced investments in growth.  This overall environment resulted in significant stress
for the financial services industry, and led to distress in credit markets, reduced liquidity for many types of securities, and concerns regarding the financial strength and adequacy of the capitalization of financial institutions. Some financial
institutions around the world have failed, some have needed significant additional capital, and others have been forced to seek acquisition partners.  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, as well as concern about their own capital and liquidity positions, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased
providing funding to borrowers. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets exacerbated the state of economic distress and hampered, and to some extent continues to hamper, efforts
to bring about and sustain an economic recovery.  The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to stabilize and
restore confidence in the financial system, including making significant investments in financial institutions and guaranteeing or otherwise supporting troubled assets held by financial institutions. The US federal government has continued in its
efforts to provide economic stimulus and financial market stability and to enhance the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions and markets, as well as to protect consumers and investors from financial abuse. These efforts, which will
continue to evolve and which have impacted and will likely continue to impact PNC and its stakeholders, include EESA, the Recovery Act, and the Credit


  
 10 







 
CARD Act, among other legislative, administrative and regulatory initiatives, and also include changes in or additions to the statutes or regulations related to these and other programs.
 These economic conditions have had an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. While the economy is currently in a modest
recovery, we expect these conditions to continue to have an ongoing negative impact on us. A slowing or failure of the economic recovery would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult economic and market conditions on us and on others
in the financial institutions industry.  In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with the current economic and market
environment: 


 
•
 
 We have seen and expect to face further increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA, the Recovery Act, the Credit CARD Act,
and other current or future initiatives intended to provide economic stimulus, financial market stability and enhanced regulation of financial services companies and to enhance the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions and markets.
Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, reduce our revenue, and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. 


 
•
 
 Investors may have less confidence in the equity markets in general and in financial services industry stocks in particular, which could place downward
pressure on PNC’s stock price and resulting market valuation. 


 
•
 
 Economic and market developments may further affect consumer and business confidence levels and may cause declines in credit usage and adverse changes
in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. 


 
•
 
 Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our
customers become less predictive of future behaviors. 


 
•
 
 The process we use to estimate losses incurred in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including the review of
economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process.



 
•
 
 We could suffer decreases in customer desire to do business with us, whether as a result of a decreased demand for loans or other financial products
and services or decreased deposits or other investments in accounts with PNC. 


 
•
 
 Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial





 
 
 
services companies in connection with current market conditions. Governmental support provided to financial institutions could alter the competitive landscape. 


 
•
 
 Increased regulation of compensation at financial services companies as part of government efforts to reform the industry may hinder our ability to
attract and retain well-qualified individuals in key positions. 


 
•
 
 We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted
the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Higher premiums may also result from FDIC proposals regarding risk-based premiums. 


 
•
 
 Investors in mortgage loans that we sell are more likely to seek indemnification against losses on loans or otherwise seek to have us share in such
losses or to request us to repurchase loans that the investors do not believe comply with applicable representations. 


 
•
 
 We may be subject to additional fees and taxes as the government seeks to recover some of the costs of its recovery efforts, in particular from the
financial services industry.  Some of these risks and others are discussed in more detail below.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">The failure or slowing of the current modest recovery from recessionary conditions, as well as the lingering effects of the recession, would likely
adversely affect our lending businesses and the value of the loans and debt securities we hold.  Given the high percentage of our assets
represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the importance of lending to our overall business, the aftermath of recessionary conditions is likely to continue to have a negative impact on our business and our results of operations as the
positive effects of economic recovery are likely to be slow and uneven in spreading to our customers. This could adversely impact loan utilization rates as well as delinquencies, defaults and customer ability to meet obligations under the loans.
 Further, a failure or slowing of the current modest recovery from recessionary conditions would likely have a negative impact on our
business, our ability to serve our customers, and our results of operations. Such conditions are likely to lead to increases in the number of borrowers who become delinquent or default or otherwise demonstrate a decreased ability to meet their
obligations under their loans. This would result in higher levels of non-performing loans, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. The value to us of other assets such as investment securities,
most of which are debt securities or represent securitizations of loans, similarly would be negatively impacted by widespread decreases in credit quality resulting from a weakening of the economy. 

  
 11 







 Our regional concentrations make us particularly at risk for economic conditions in our primary retail
banking footprint.  Although many of our businesses are national and some are international in scope, our retail banking business is
concentrated within our retail branch network footprint, located primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Maryland, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Missouri, Virginia, Delaware, Washington, D.C., and Wisconsin. Thus, we are
particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in these states or the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions more generally.  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Our business and performance are vulnerable to the impact of continued volatility in debt and equity markets.  As most of our
assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be particularly sensitive to the performance of the financial markets. Since the middle of 2007 and with a heightened level of activity during 2008 and 2009, there has been unprecedented
turmoil, volatility and illiquidity in worldwide financial markets, accompanied by uncertain prospects for sustaining the modest economic recovery that began mid-year 2009. In addition, there have been dramatic changes in the competitive landscape
of the financial services industry during this time. This turmoil and volatility has been a contributory factor to overall economic conditions, leading to some of the risks discussed above, including impairing the ability of borrowers and other
counterparties to meet obligations to us. Financial market volatility also can have some of the following adverse effects on PNC and our business and financial performance: 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value or liquidity of our on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value of servicing rights, including those we carry at fair value. 


 
•
 
 It can affect, to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business and overall liquidity position, the cost of such funds or
our ability to raise such funds. The inability to access capital markets at a desirable cost could affect our liquidity or results of operations. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value of the assets that we manage or otherwise administer for others or the assets for which we provide processing and information
services. Although we are not directly impacted by changes in the value of assets that we manage or administer for others or for which we provide processing and information services, decreases in the value of those assets would affect our fee income
relating to those assets and could result in decreased demand for our services. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the required funding of our pension obligations to the extent that the value of the assets supporting those obligations drops below
minimum levels. 




 
•
 
 In general, it can impact the nature, profitability or risk profile of the financial transactions in which we engage.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Volatility in the markets for real estate and other assets commonly securing financial products has been and is likely to continue to be a significant
contributor to overall volatility in financial markets.  Our business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market
interest rates and movements in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which we have no
control and which we may not be able to predict adequately.  As a result of the high percentage of our assets and liabilities that are in
the form of interest-bearing or interest-related instruments, changes in interest rates, in the shape of the yield curve or in spreads between different market interest rates can have a material effect on our business, our profitability and the
value of our financial assets and liabilities. For example: 


 
•
 
 Changes in interest rates or interest rate spreads can affect the difference between the interest that we earn on assets and the interest that we pay
on liabilities, which impacts our overall net interest income. 


 
•
 
 Such changes can affect the ability of borrowers to meet obligations under variable or adjustable rate debt instruments. 


 
•
 
 Such changes may decrease the demand for interest-rate based products and services, including loans and deposit accounts. 



 
•
 
 Such changes can also affect our ability to hedge various forms of market and interest rate risk and may decrease the profitability or increase the
risk associated with such hedges. 


 
•
 
 Movements in interest rates also affect mortgage prepayment speeds and could result in impairments of mortgage servicing assets.
 The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant
impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. These governmental policies can thus affect the activities and results of operations of banking companies such as PNC. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the
national supply of bank credit and market interest rates. The actions of the Federal Reserve influence the rates of interest that we charge on loans and that we pay on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of our
on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Both due to the impact on rates and by controlling access to direct funding from the Federal Reserve Banks, the Federal Reserve’s policies also influence, to a significant extent,
our cost of funding. We cannot predict the


  
 12 







 
nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effect that they may have on our activities and financial results.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely
execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit
risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or
derivative exposure due us.  Risks resulting from 2008-2010 transactions  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">Our acquisition of National City presents substantial risks and uncertainties, which could limit our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from this
transaction.  On December 31, 2008, we acquired National City through a merger in which PNC continued as the surviving entity. We
provide additional information about this acquisition in Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures included in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">This acquisition presents us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition itself and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC. These risks and uncertainties
include the following risks to PNC: 


 
•
 
 Like PNC, National City was a large financial institution with retail and other banking operations in numerous markets in which PNC had little or no
experience. National City also had major operations in areas in which PNC did not have a significant presence, including residential mortgage lending, residential mortgage servicing, credit card lending and equipment leasing. Prior to completion of
the merger, PNC and National City operated as separate independent entities, and National City operated under its own systems and procedures, operating models and controls. As a result of these factors as well as the relative size of the
acquisition, there are significant integration-related risks, which are greater than in other recent acquisitions by PNC. 


 
•
 
 Prior to our acquisition, National City’s results were impacted negatively by a significant amount of asset impairments. Our results following the
acquisition depend on our ability to manage these assets, which require special servicing and management oversight, including disposition if appropriate. As the integration process continues, we may identify other





 
 
 
issues with respect to National City’s asset valuation or accounting procedures that may lead to further impairments or write-downs. 


 
•
 
 National City’s pre-acquisition financial performance and resulting stock price performance and other pre-acquisition activities have led to legal
proceedings and other claims and governmental investigations and more may be made or commenced in the future. As a result of this acquisition, we now bear the risks associated with legal proceedings and other claims and governmental investigations
relating to National City’s business and activities before the acquisition, the full extent of the potential adverse impact of which cannot currently be predicted with reasonable certainty. See Note 24 Legal Proceedings in the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information.  Our failure to complete the
sale of GIS by November 1, 2010 would result in a requirement that we sell other assets or raise additional common equity.  As part
of the regulatory approval for the redemption of the Series N Preferred Stock issued to the US Treasury, we will be required to raise additional Tier 1 common capital through the sale of assets approved by the Federal Reserve Board or through the
issuance of additional common stock if the sale of GIS has not been completed by November 1, 2010. We will need to raise this additional Tier 1 common capital by November 1 in the amount of $700 million.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Risks related to the ordinary course of PNC’s business  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">We operate in a highly competitive environment, both in terms of the products and services we offer, the geographic markets in which we conduct business, as well as our labor markets and competition
for talented employees. Competition could adversely impact our customer acquisition, growth and retention, as well as our credit spreads and product pricing, causing us to lose market share and deposits and revenues.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">We are subject to intense competition from various financial institutions as well as from non-bank entities that engage in similar activities without being
subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. This competition is described in Item 1 of this Report under “Competition.”  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">In all, the principal bases for competition are pricing (including the interest rates charged on loans or paid on interest-bearing deposits), product structure, the range of products and services offered, and the quality of customer service
(including convenience and responsiveness to customer needs and concerns). The ability to access and use technology is an increasingly important competitive factor in the financial services industry. Technology is important not only with respect to
delivery of financial services but also in


  
 13 







 
processing information. Each of our businesses consistently must make significant technological investments to remain competitive.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">A failure to address adequately the competitive pressures we face could make it harder for us to attract and retain customers across our businesses. On the other hand, meeting these competitive pressures
could require us to incur significant additional expenses or to accept risk beyond what we would otherwise view as desirable under the circumstances. In addition, in our interest sensitive businesses, pressures to increase rates on deposits or
decrease rates on loans could reduce our net interest margin with a resulting negative impact on our net interest income.  We grow our
business in part by acquiring from time to time other financial services companies, and these acquisitions present us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the
acquired businesses into PNC after closing.  Acquisitions of other financial services companies in general present risks to PNC in
addition to those presented by the nature of the business acquired. We describe some of the integration risks presented by our acquisition of National City above. Many of these risks are common to some extent in acquisition transactions. 
In general, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive to complete (including unanticipated costs incurred in connection with the integration of
the acquired company) and the anticipated benefits (including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains) may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected. In some cases, acquisitions involve our entry into new businesses or new
geographic or other markets, and these situations also present risks resulting from our inexperience in these new areas. As a regulated financial institution, our pursuit of attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted due to
regulatory delays or other regulatory issues. Regulatory and/or legal issues relating to the pre-acquisition operations of an acquired business may cause reputational harm to PNC following the acquisition and integration of the acquired business
into ours and may result in additional future costs or regulatory limitations arising as a result of those issues.  The performance of our
asset management businesses may be adversely affected by the relative performance of our products compared with alternative investments as well as by overall economic and market conditions.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Asset management revenue is primarily based on a percentage of the value of assets under management and, in some cases, performance fees, in most cases
expressed as a percentage of the returns realized on assets under management, and thus is impacted by general changes in capital markets valuations as


 
well as by customer preferences and needs. In addition, investment performance is an important factor influencing the level of assets under management. Poor investment performance could impair
revenue and growth as existing clients might withdraw funds in favor of better performing products. Also, performance fees could be lower or nonexistent. Additionally, the ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish.
Overall economic conditions may limit the amount that customers are able or willing to invest.  The failure or negative performance of
products of other financial institutions could lead to a loss of confidence in similar products offered by us without regard to the performance of our products. Such a negative contagion could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in
such products and have a material adverse impact on our assets under management and asset management revenues and earnings.  The
performance of our fund servicing business may be adversely affected by changes in investor preferences, or changes in existing or potential fund servicing clients or alternative providers.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Fund servicing fees are primarily derived from the market value of the assets and the number of shareholder accounts that we administer for our clients. The
performance of our fund processing business is thus partially dependent on the underlying performance of its fund clients and, in particular, their ability to attract and retain customers. Changes in interest rates or a sustained weakness, weakening
or volatility in the debt and equity markets could (in addition to affecting directly the value of assets administered as discussed above) influence an investor’s decision to invest or maintain an investment in a particular mutual fund or other
pooled investment product. Other factors beyond our control may impact the ability of our fund clients to attract or retain customers or customer funds, including changes in preferences as to certain investment styles. Further, to the extent that
our fund clients’ businesses are adversely affected by ongoing governmental investigations into the practices of the mutual and hedge fund industries, our fund processing business’ results also could be adversely impacted. As a result of
these types of factors, fluctuations may occur in the level or value of assets for which we provide processing services. In addition, this regulatory and business environment is likely to continue to result in operating margin pressure for our
various services.  As a regulated financial services firm, we are subject to numerous governmental regulations and to comprehensive
examination and supervision by regulators, which affects our business as well as our competitive position.  PNC is a bank and financial
holding company and is subject to numerous governmental regulations involving both its


  
 14 







 
business and organization. PNC services its obligations primarily with dividends and advances that it receives from its subsidiaries.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Our businesses are subject to regulation by multiple bank regulatory bodies as well as multiple securities industry regulators. Applicable laws and
regulations restrict our ability to repurchase stock or to receive dividends from subsidiaries that operate in the banking and securities businesses and impose capital adequacy requirements. They also restrict permissible activities and investments
and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, mutual fund and other customers, and for the protection of customer information, among other things. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary
and nonmonetary sanctions as well as damage to our reputation and businesses.  In addition, we are subject to comprehensive examination and
supervision by banking and other regulatory bodies. Examination reports and ratings (which often are not publicly available) and other aspects of this supervisory framework can materially impact the conduct, growth, and profitability of our
businesses.  Due to the current economic environment and issues facing the financial services industry, we anticipate new legislative and
regulatory initiatives over the next several years, including many focused specifically on banking and other financial services in which we are engaged. These initiatives will be in addition to the actions already taken by Congress and the
regulators, including EESA, the Recovery Act, the Credit CARD Act, and the SAFE Act, as well as changes to the regulations implementing the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Federal Truth in Lending Act, and the Electronic Fund Transfer
Act. Developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. This impact could include rules and regulations that affect the nature and profitability of
our business activities, how we use our capital, how we compensate and incent our employees, and other matters potentially having a negative effect on our overall business results and prospects.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Under the regulations of the Federal Reserve, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a
result of this regulatory policy, the Federal Reserve might require PNC to commit resources to PNC Bank, N.A. when doing so is not otherwise in the interests of PNC or its shareholders or creditors.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Our ability to pay dividends to shareholders is largely dependent on dividends from our operating subsidiaries, principally PNC Bank, N.A. Banks are subject
to regulation on the amount and circumstances of dividends they can pay to their holding companies.   

 We discuss these and other regulatory issues applicable to PNC, including some particular areas of current
regulatory focus or concern, in the Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 1 of this Report and in Note 23 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report and here by reference.
 A failure to have adequate procedures to comply with regulatory requirements could expose us to damages, fines and regulatory penalties,
which could be significant, and could also injure our reputation with customers and others with whom we do business.  We must comply with
generally accepted accounting principles established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, accounting, disclosure and other rules set forth by the SEC, income tax and other regulations established by the US Department of the Treasury, and
revenue rulings and other guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, which affect our financial condition and results of operations.  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Changes in accounting standards, or interpretations of those standards, can impact our revenue recognition and expense policies and affect our estimation methods used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. Changes in income tax
regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, and other guidance can impact our tax liability and alter the timing of cash flows associated with tax deductions and payments. New guidance often dictates how changes to standards and regulations
are to be presented in our consolidated financial statements, as either an adjustment to beginning retained earnings for the period or as income or expense in current period earnings. In some cases, changes may be applied to previously reported
disclosures.  The determination of the amount of loss allowances and impairments taken on our assets is highly subjective and could
materially impact our results of operations or financial position.  The determination of the amount of loss allowances and asset
impairments varies by asset type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of
impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.


  
 15 







 
Our asset valuation may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in
changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  We must use estimates,
assumptions, and judgments when financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the
information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is
not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flows and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors,
assumptions, or estimates in any of the areas underlying our estimates could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be more difficult to value certain of our
assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In
such cases, certain asset valuations may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented
credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Our business and financial results could be impacted materially by adverse results in legal proceedings.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Many aspects of our business involve substantial risk of legal liability. We have been named as defendants in various legal proceedings arising from our
business activities (and in some cases from the activities of companies we have acquired). In addition, we are regularly the subject of governmental investigations and other forms of regulatory inquiry. The results of these legal proceedings and
governmental investigations and inquiries could lead to significant monetary damages or penalties, restrictions on the way in which we conduct our business, or reputational harm.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Some of our customers could be adversely affected by climate-related conditions which could have an impact on our business.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Our business could be negatively impacted by adverse changes in the creditworthiness of our customers and by


 
adverse changes in customer demand for our products and services to the extent that our customers are negatively impacted by climate-related physical changes and hazards or by legislative and
regulatory initiatives relating to climate change or other conditions.  Our business and financial performance could be adversely affected,
directly or indirectly, by natural disasters, by terrorist activities or by international hostilities.  The impact of natural disasters,
terrorist activities and international hostilities cannot be predicted with respect to severity or duration. However, any of these could impact us directly (for example, by causing significant damage to our facilities or preventing us from
conducting our business in the ordinary course), or could impact us indirectly through a direct impact on our borrowers, depositors, other customers, suppliers or other counterparties. We could also suffer adverse consequences to the extent that
natural disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities affect the economy and capital and other financial markets generally. These types of impacts could lead, for example, to an increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that
could result in our experiencing higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses.  Our ability to
mitigate the adverse consequences of such occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of our resiliency planning, including our ability to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The adverse impact of natural disasters or terrorist
activities or international hostilities also could be increased to the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and businesses that we deal with,
particularly those that we depend upon.  ITEM 1B