ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS
 We are subject to a number of risks potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Indeed, as a
financial services organization, certain elements of risk are inherent in every one of our transactions and are present in every business decision we make. Thus, we encounter risk as part of the normal course of our business, and we design risk
management processes to help manage these risks.  There are risks that are known to exist at the outset of a transaction. For example, every loan
transaction presents credit risk (the risk that the borrower may not perform in accordance with contractual terms) and interest rate risk (a potential loss in earnings or economic value due to adverse movement in market interest rates or credit
spreads), with the nature and extent of these risks principally depending on the identity of the borrower and overall economic conditions. These risks are inherent in every loan transaction; if we wish to make loans, we must manage these risks
through the terms and structure of the loans and through management of our deposits and other funding sources.  Risk management is an important part of our
business model. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to identify, understand and manage the risks presented by our business activities so that we can balance appropriately revenue generation and profitability with these inherent
risks. Our shareholders have been well served by our focus on maintaining a moderate risk profile. With an economy in severe recession and our recent acquisition of National City, <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:right; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:8px;overflow:hidden"> 
our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2008 did not reflect that desired risk profile. However, we remain committed to a moderate risk profile
and we are working hard to bring our risk issues back into alignment. We discuss our principal risk management processes and, in appropriate places, related historical performance in the Risk Management section included in Item 7 of this
Report.  The following are the key risk factors that affect us. These risk factors and other risks are also discussed further in other parts of this
Report.  Risks related to current economic conditions  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The continuation or worsening of current recessionary conditions, as well as continued turmoil in the financial markets, would likely have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of
operations.  The economy in the United States and globally is currently in the midst of a severe recession. This economic situation has been
accompanied by disruption and turmoil in financial markets around the world. Throughout much of the United States, the past two years have seen dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures. The
deepening recession has led to increased unemployment and underemployment. Businesses across many industries are showing reduced earnings or in some cases losses, with reduced investments in growth.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">For the financial services industry, this overall environment has resulted in significant write-downs of asset values, initially of mortgage-backed securities but
spreading to other derivative and cash securities. Affected institutions include commercial and investment banks as well as government-sponsored entities. The impact of this situation has led to distress in credit markets, reduced liquidity for many
types of securities, and concerns regarding the financial strength and adequacy of the capitalization of financial institutions. Some financial institutions around the world have failed, some have needed significant additional capital, and others
have been forced to seek acquisition partners.  Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of
counterparties, as well as concern about their own capital and liquidity positions, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the
lack of confidence in the financial markets has exacerbated the state of economic distress and hampered efforts to bring about an economic recovery and restore stability to financial markets.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including making significant investments in financial
institutions and guaranteeing or otherwise supporting troubled assets held by financial institutions. The new Obama administration and the U.S. Congress are actively seeking 
  
 10 




Table of Contents

 
ways of providing economic stimulus and financial market stability, including the recent enactment of the Recovery Act.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">These economic conditions have had an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We do not expect that the weakened economy or difficult conditions in the
financial markets are likely to improve meaningfully in the near future, and we expect those conditions to have an ongoing negative impact on us. A worsening or prolonged continuation of these conditions would likely aggravate the adverse effects of
these difficult economic and market conditions on us and on others in the financial institutions industry.  In particular, we may face the following risks
in connection with the current economic and market environment: 


 
•
 
 Proposals to permit bankruptcy courts to adjust the terms of home mortgage obligations of people in proceedings before them may adversely impact the value of
mortgages and mortgage-backed securities held by us, including, in the case of securities, by affecting the protections offered by subordination provisions. 


 
•
 
 We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA, the Recovery Act and other current or future initiatives to provide
economic stimulus, financial market stability and enhanced regulation of financial services companies. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. 


 
•
 
 Investors may have less confidence in the equity markets in general and in financial services industry stocks in particular, which could place downward pressure on
PNC’s stock price and resulting market valuation. 


 
•
 
 Market developments may further affect consumer and business confidence levels and may cause declines in credit usage and adverse changes in payment patterns,
causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. 


 
•
 
 Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers
become less predictive of future behaviors. 


 
•
 
 The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including the review of economic
conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process.



 
•
 
 We could suffer decreases in customer desire to do business with us, whether as a result of a decreased demand for loans or other financial products and services or
decreased deposits or other investments in accounts with PNC. 


 
•
 
 Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market
conditions. Governmental support provided to financial institutions could alter the competitive landscape. 


 
•
 
 Increased regulation of compensation at financial services companies as part of government efforts to reform the industry may hinder our ability to attract and
retain well-qualified individuals in key positions. 


 
•
 
 We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance
fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.  Some of these risks are discussed in more detail below.
 The continuation of current recessionary conditions would likely adversely affect our lending businesses and the value of the loans and debt securities
we hold.  Given the high percentage of our assets represented, directly or indirectly, by loans and the importance of lending to our overall business,
continued recessionary conditions are likely to have a negative impact on our business, our ability to serve our customers and our results of operations. Such conditions are likely to lead to increases in the number of borrowers who become
delinquent or default or otherwise demonstrate a decreased ability to meet their obligations under their loans. This would result in higher levels of non-performing loans, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses and valuation adjustments on
loans held for sale. The value to us of other assets such as investment securities, most of which are debt securities or represent securitizations of loans, similarly would be negatively impacted by widespread decreases in credit quality resulting
from a weak economy.  Our regional concentration makes us particularly at risk for economic conditions in our primary retail banking footprint. 
 Although many of our businesses are national and some are international in scope, our retail banking business is concentrated within our retail branch
network footprint (for the past several years, Delaware, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Washington, D.C., and, with our recent acquisition of National City, now including Florida, Illinois, Michigan,
Missouri and Wisconsin). Thus, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in these states or the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions more generally.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Our business and performance are vulnerable to the impact of continued volatility in debt and equity markets.  As
most of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be particularly sensitive to the performance of the 
  
 11 




Table of Contents

 
financial markets. Starting in the middle of 2007, there has been significant turmoil and volatility in worldwide financial markets, which is, at present,
ongoing. This turmoil and volatility are a contributory factor to overall economic conditions, leading to some of the risks discussed above, including impairing the ability of borrowers and other counterparties to meet obligations to us. Financial
market volatility also can have some of the following adverse effects on PNC and our business and financial performance: 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value or liquidity of our on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value of servicing rights that we acquire and carry at fair value, such as the residential mortgage servicing rights acquired in the National City
transaction. 


 
•
 
 It can affect, to the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business and overall liquidity position, the cost of such funds or our ability
to raise such funds. The inability to access capital markets at a desirable cost could affect our liquidity or results of operations. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value of the assets that we manage or otherwise administer for others or the assets for which we provide processing and information services.
Although we are not directly impacted by changes in the value of assets that we manage or administer for others or for which we provide processing and information services, decreases in the value of those assets would affect our fee income relating
to those assets and could result in decreased demand for our services. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the required funding of our pension obligations to the extent that the value of the assets supporting those obligations drops below minimum levels.



 
•
 
 In general, it can impact the nature, profitability or risk profile of the financial transactions in which we engage.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Volatility in the markets for real estate and other assets commonly securing financial products has been and is likely to continue to be a significant contributor to
overall volatility in financial markets.  Our business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market interest rates and movements in
those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which we have no control and which we may not be
able to predict adequately.  As a result of the high percentage of our assets and liabilities that are in the form of interest-bearing or
interest-related instruments, changes in interest rates, in the shape of the yield curve or in spreads between different market interest rates can <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:right; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:8px;overflow:hidden"> 
have a material effect on our business, our profitability and the value of our financial assets and liabilities. For example: 


 
•
 
 Movements in interest rates affect mortgage prepayment speeds and could result in impairments of mortgage servicing assets. 


 
•
 
 Changes in interest rates or interest rate spreads can affect the difference between the interest that we earn on assets and the interest that we pay on
liabilities, which impacts our overall net interest income. 


 
•
 
 Such changes can affect the ability of borrowers to meet obligations under variable or adjustable rate debt instruments. 


 
•
 
 Such changes may decrease the demand for interest-rate based products and services, including loans and deposit accounts. 


 
•
 
 Such changes can also affect our ability to hedge various forms of market and interest rate risk and may decrease the profitability or increase the risk associated
with such hedges.  The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a
significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. These governmental policies can thus affect the activities and results of operations of banking companies such as PNC. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to
regulate the national supply of bank credit and market interest rates. The actions of the Federal Reserve influence the rates of interest that we charge on loans and that we pay on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the
value of our on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Both due to the impact on rates and by controlling access to direct funding from the Federal Reserve Banks, the Federal Reserve’s policies also influence, to a
significant extent, our cost of funding. We cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effect that they may have on our activities and results of operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with
counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of
default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due
us. There can be no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings.   
 12 




Table of Contents

 
Actions taken by the federal government to stabilize the U.S. financial system and provide economic stimulus may not succeed.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Given the recent financial market turmoil, particularly in the last several months, the federal government has taken numerous steps to stabilize the US financial system,
both through legislative and regulatory action. The steps include passage of EESA and actions taken by the US Department of the Treasury thereafter to implement EESA, as well as the recent enactment of the Recovery Act. Legislative and regulatory
initiatives to provide economic stimulus, financial market stability and financial market regulatory reform have been proposed or are pending (including some that have modified or would modify EESA), and more are anticipated going forward. What
steps the government will take, the manner in which they will be implemented and the actual impact they will have on the economy and financial markets are uncertain. The failure of these governmental actions to help stabilize the financial markets
and the U.S. economy, and the potential impact of compliance with government regulations undertaken in connection with such actions on our costs and our ability to pursue business opportunities, could materially and adversely affect our business,
financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our common stock.  Risks resulting from recent transactions
 Our acquisition of National City presents substantial risks and uncertainties, which could limit our ability to realize the anticipated
benefits from this transaction.  On December 31, 2008, we acquired National City through a merger in which PNC continued as the surviving entity.
We provide additional information about this acquisition in Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures included in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">This acquisition presents the following risks to PNC: 


 
•
 
 Like PNC, National City was a large financial institution and has retail and other banking operations in numerous markets in which PNC had little or no experience.
National City also had major operations in areas in which PNC did not have a significant presence, including residential mortgage lending, residential mortgage servicing, credit card lending and equipment leasing. As a result of these factors, there
are significant integration-related risks, which are greater than in other recent acquisitions by PNC. 


 
•
 
 Prior to completion of the merger, PNC and National City operated as separate independent entities. The integration process may result in the loss of key employees,
the disruption of either company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors, and employees or to



 
 
achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. Successful
integration may also be hampered by cultural differences between the two organizations. Further, PNC agreed, in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals for the National City acquisition, to divest 61 of National City Bank’s branches in
Western Pennsylvania and this process is also underway. 


 
•
 
 In recent periods, National City’s results had been impacted negatively by a significant amount of asset impairments. Our results following the acquisition
will depend on our ability to manage these assets, which require special servicing and management oversight, including disposition if appropriate. As the integration process develops, we may identify other issues with respect to National City’s
asset valuation or accounting procedures that may lead to further impairments or write-downs. 


 
•
 
 National City’s pre-acquisition financial performance and resulting stock price performance and other pre-acquisition activities have led to several lawsuits
and governmental investigations, and more may be commenced in the future. As a result of this acquisition, we now bear the risks associated with lawsuits and governmental investigations relating to National City, the full extent of the potential
adverse impact of which cannot currently be predicted with reasonable certainty. See Note 24 Legal Proceedings in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. 
Our issuance of securities to the US Department of the Treasury may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders and is dilutive to our common shares.
Also, the dividend rate increases substantially after five years if we are unable to redeem the shares by that time.  In connection with our sale of
$7.6 billion of senior preferred stock to the US Department of the Treasury on December 31, 2008, we also issued the US Department of the Treasury a warrant to purchase approximately 17 million shares of our common stock at $67.33 per
share. The terms of the transaction with the Department of the Treasury result in limitations on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our shares. For three years after issuance or until the Department of the Treasury no longer holds any
preferred shares, we will not be able to increase our dividends above the most recent level prior to October 14, 2008 ($.66 per common share on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of our shares without the Department of the Treasury’s
approval with limited exceptions, most significantly purchases in connection with benefit plans. Also, we will not be able to pay any dividends at all unless we are current on our dividend payments on the preferred shares. These restrictions, as
well as the dilutive impact of the warrant, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.   
 13 




Table of Contents

 <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Unless we are able to redeem the preferred stock during the first five years, the dividends on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% (almost $400 million annually) to 9% (almost $700 million annually). Depending on
market conditions and our financial performance at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our capital and liquidity.  The US
Department of the Treasury has the unilateral ability to change some of the restrictions imposed on us by virtue of our sale of securities to it.  Our
agreement with the US Department of the Treasury under which it purchased our securities imposes restrictions on our conduct of our business, including restrictions related to our payment of dividends and repurchase of our stock and related to our
executive compensation and governance. The US Department of the Treasury has the right under this agreement to unilaterally amend it to the extent required to comply with any future changes in federal statutes. The Recovery Act amended provisions of
EESA relating to compensation and governance as they affect companies such as PNC that have sold securities to the US Department of the Treasury. In some cases, these amendments require action by the US Department of the Treasury to implement them.
These amendments could have an adverse impact on the conduct of our business, as could additional amendments in the future that impose further requirements or amend existing requirements.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:18px;margin-bottom:0px">Risks related to the ordinary course of PNC’s business  <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">We operate in a highly competitive environment, both in terms of the products and services we offer, the geographic markets in which we conduct business, as well as our labor markets and competition for talented employees. Competition
could adversely impact our customer acquisition, growth and retention, as well as our credit spreads and product pricing, causing us to lose market share and deposits and revenues.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">We are subject to intense competition from various financial institutions as well as from non-bank entities that engage in similar activities without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. This
competition is described in Item 1 of this Report under “Competition.”  In all, the principal bases for competition are pricing (including
the interest rates charged on loans or paid on interest-bearing deposits), product structure, the range of products and services offered, and the quality of customer service (including convenience and responsiveness to customer needs and concerns).
The ability to access and use technology is an increasingly important competitive factor in the financial services industry. Technology is important not only with respect to delivery of financial services but also in processing information. Each of
our businesses consistently must make significant technological investments to remain competitive.   <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:right; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:8px;overflow:hidden"> A failure to address adequately the competitive pressures we
face could make it harder for us to attract and retain customers across our businesses. On the other hand, meeting these competitive pressures could require us to incur significant additional expenses or to accept risk beyond what we would otherwise
view as desirable under the circumstances. In addition, in our interest sensitive businesses, pressures to increase rates on deposits or decrease rates on loans could reduce our net interest margin with a resulting negative impact on our net
interest income. Any of these results would likely have an adverse effect on our overall financial performance.  We grow our business in part by
acquiring from time to time other financial services companies, and these acquisitions present us with a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the acquired businesses into
PNC after closing.  Acquisitions of other financial services companies in general present risks to PNC in addition to those presented by the nature of
the business acquired. We describe some of the integration risks presented by our recent acquisition of National City above. Many of these risks are common to some extent in acquisition transactions.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">In general, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive to complete (including as a result of costs incurred in connection with the integration of the acquired
company) and the anticipated benefits (including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains) may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected. In some cases, acquisitions involve our entry into new businesses or new geographic
or other markets, and these situations also present risks resulting from our inexperience in these new areas. As a regulated financial institution, our pursuit of attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted due to regulatory
delays or other regulatory issues. Regulatory and/or legal issues relating to the pre-acquisition operations of an acquired business may cause reputational harm to PNC following the acquisition and integration of the acquired business into ours and
may result in additional future costs or regulatory limitations arising as a result of those issues.  The performance of our asset management businesses
may be adversely affected by the relative performance of our products compared with alternative investments as well as by overall economic and market conditions.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Asset management revenue is primarily based on a percentage of the value of assets under management and, in some cases, performance fees, in most cases expressed as a percentage of the returns realized on assets under
management, and thus is impacted by general changes in capital markets valuations as well as by customer preferences and needs. In addition, investment performance is an important factor influencing the level of assets under management. Poor
investment performance could impair revenue and growth as existing 
  
 14 




Table of Contents

 
clients might withdraw funds in favor of better performing products. Also, performance fees could be lower or nonexistent. Additionally, the ability to
attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish. Overall economic conditions may limit the amount that customers are able or willing to invest.  <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">The failure or negative performance of products of other financial institutions could lead to a loss of confidence in similar products offered by us without regard to the performance of our products. Such a negative contagion could lead to
withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products and have a material adverse impact on our assets under management and asset management revenues and earnings.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The performance of our fund servicing business may be adversely affected by changes in investor preferences, or changes in existing or potential fund servicing clients or alternative providers.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Fund servicing fees are primarily derived from the market value of the assets and the number of shareholder accounts that we administer for our clients. The performance
of our fund processing business is thus partially dependent on the underlying performance of its fund clients and, in particular, their ability to attract and retain customers. Changes in interest rates or a sustained weakness, weakening or
volatility in the debt and equity markets could (in addition to affecting directly the value of assets administered as discussed above) influence an investor’s decision to invest or maintain an investment in a particular mutual fund or other
pooled investment product. Other factors beyond our control may impact the ability of our fund clients to attract or retain customers or customer funds, including changes in preferences as to certain investment styles. Further, to the extent that
our fund clients’ businesses are adversely affected by ongoing governmental investigations into the practices of the mutual and hedge fund industries, our fund processing business’ results also could be adversely impacted. As a result of
these types of factors, fluctuations may occur in the level or value of assets for which we provide processing services. In addition, this regulatory and business environment is likely to continue to result in operating margin pressure for our
various services.  As a regulated financial services firm, we are subject to numerous governmental regulations and to comprehensive examination and
supervision by regulators, which affects our business as well as our competitive position.  PNC is a bank and financial holding company and is subject
to numerous governmental regulations involving both its business and organization. PNC services its obligations primarily with dividends and advances that it receives from its subsidiaries.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Our businesses are subject to regulation by multiple bank regulatory bodies as well as multiple securities industry regulators. Applicable laws and regulations restrict
our ability  
to repurchase stock or to receive dividends from subsidiaries that operate in the banking and securities business and impose capital adequacy requirements.
They also restrict permissible activities and investments and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, mutual fund and other customers, and for the protection of customer information, among other things. The
consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions as well as damage to our reputation and businesses.  In addition,
we are subject to comprehensive examination and supervision by banking and other regulatory bodies. Examination reports and ratings (which often are not publicly available) and other aspects of this supervisory framework can materially impact the
conduct, growth, and profitability of our businesses.  Due to the current economic environment and issues facing the financial services industry, as well
as the effect of the change from the Bush to the Obama administration, we anticipate new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, including many focused specifically on banking and other financial services in which we are
engaged. These initiatives will be in addition to the actions already taken by Congress and the regulators, including EESA and the Recovery Act. Developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are likely to continue to
have an impact on the conduct of our business. This impact could include rules and regulations that affect the nature and profitability of our business activities, how we use our capital, how we compensate and incent our employees and other matters
potentially having a negative effect on our overall business results and prospects.  Under the regulations of the Federal Reserve, a bank holding company
is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of this regulatory policy, the Federal Reserve might require PNC to commit resources to its subsidiary banks when doing so is not otherwise in the interests
of PNC or its shareholders or creditors.  Our ability to pay dividends to shareholders is largely dependent on dividends from our operating subsidiaries,
principally our banking subsidiaries. Banks are subject to regulation on the amount and circumstances of dividends they can pay to their holding companies. At present, National City Bank does not have any ability to pay dividends, so we are
primarily relying on PNC Bank, N.A.’s dividend capacity to support our external dividends.  We discuss these and other regulatory issues applicable to
PNC in the Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 1 of this Report and in Note 23 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report and here by reference. <br
clear="All">  
 15 




Table of Contents

 <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Over the last several years, there has been an increasing regulatory focus on compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations, resulting in, among other things, several significant publicly-announced enforcement actions. There
has also been a heightened focus recently, by customers and the media as well as by regulators, on the protection of confidential customer information. A failure to have adequate procedures to comply with anti-money laundering laws and regulations
or to protect the confidentiality of customer information could expose us to damages, fines and regulatory penalties, which could be significant, and could also injure our reputation with customers and others with whom we do business.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">We must comply with generally accepted accounting principles established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, accounting, disclosure and other rules set forth
by the SEC, income tax and other regulations established by the US Department of the Treasury, and revenue rulings and other guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, which affect our financial condition and results of operations.
 Changes in accounting standards, or interpretations of those standards, can impact our revenue recognition and expense policies and affect our
estimation methods used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. Changes in income tax regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, and other guidance can impact our tax liability and alter the timing of cash flows associated with tax
deductions and payments. New guidance often dictates how changes to standards and regulations are to be presented in our consolidated financial statements, as either an adjustment to beginning retained earnings for the period or as income or expense
in current period earnings. In some cases, changes may be applied to previously reported disclosures.  The determination of the amount of loss
allowances and impairments taken on our assets is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position.  The
determination of the amount of loss allowances and asset impairments varies by asset type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and
assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no
assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical
trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.   <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:right; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:8px;overflow:hidden"> Our asset valuation may include methodologies, estimations
and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">We must use estimates, assumptions, and judgments when financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair
value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs
provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flows and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit
quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these areas could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be
difficult to value certain of our assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the
current financial environment. In such cases, certain asset valuations may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further,
rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.
Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  Our business and financial performance could
be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by natural disasters, by terrorist activities or by international hostilities.  The impact of natural
disasters, terrorist activities and international hostilities cannot be predicted with respect to severity or duration. However, any of these could impact us directly (for example, by causing significant damage to our facilities or preventing us
from conducting our business in the ordinary course), or could impact us indirectly through a direct impact on our borrowers, depositors, other customers, suppliers or other counterparties. We could also suffer adverse consequences to the extent
that natural disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities affect the economy and capital and other financial markets generally. These types of impacts could lead, for example, to an increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults
that could result in our experiencing higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses.   
 16 




Table of Contents

 
Our ability to mitigate the adverse consequences of such occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of our resiliency planning, including our ability to
anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The adverse impact of natural disasters or terrorist activities or international hostilities also could be increased to the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or
regional emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and businesses that we deal with, particularly those that we depend upon.  
ITEM 1B