ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS 
We are subject to a number of risks potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a financial services
organization, certain elements of risk are inherent in our transactions and are present in the business decisions we make. Thus, we encounter risk as part of the normal course of our business, and we design risk management processes to help manage
these risks.  There are risks that are known to exist at the outset of a transaction. For example, every loan transaction presents credit risk
(the risk that the borrower may not perform in accordance with contractual terms) and interest rate risk (a potential loss in earnings or economic value due to adverse movement in market interest rates or credit spreads), with the nature and extent
of these risks principally depending on the financial profile of the borrower and overall economic conditions. We focus on lending that is within the boundaries of our risk framework, and manage these risks by adjusting the terms and structure of
the loans we make and through our oversight of the borrower relationship, as well as through management of our deposits and other funding sources.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Risk management is an important part of our business model. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to identify, understand and manage the risks presented by our business activities so
that we can appropriately balance revenue generation and profitability. These risks include credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance and legal risk, and strategic and reputation risk. Our shareholders have been well
served by our focus on achieving and maintaining a moderate risk profile. At December 31, 2008 with an economy in severe recession and with our then recent acquisition of National City, our Consolidated Balance Sheet did not reflect that
desired risk profile. However, by December 31, 2010 we had made significant progress toward

 
bringing PNC back into alignment with a moderate risk profile and transitioning PNC’s balance sheet to more closely reflect our business model. We remain committed to returning to a moderate
risk profile characterized by disciplined credit management, a stable operating risk environment, and more limited exposure to earnings volatility resulting from interest rate fluctuations and the shape of the interest rate yield curve. We discuss
our principal risk management processes and, in appropriate places, related historical performance in the Risk Management section included in Item 7 of this Report.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The following are the key risk factors that affect us. Any one or more of these risk factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows,
in addition to presenting other possible adverse consequences, which are described below. These risk factors and other risks are also discussed further in other sections of this Report. 
The possibility of the moderate economic recovery returning to recessionary conditions or of turmoil or volatility in the financial markets would
likely have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.  The economy in the United States and
globally began to recover from severe recessionary conditions in mid-2009 and is currently in the midst of a moderate economic recovery. The sustainability of the moderate recovery is dependent on a number of factors that are not within our control,
such as a return to private sector job growth and investment, strengthening of housing sales and construction, continuation of the economic recovery globally, and the timing of the exit from government credit easing policies. We continue to face
risks resulting from the aftermath of the severe recession generally and the moderate pace of the current recovery. A slowing or failure of the economic recovery could bring a return to some or all of the adverse effects of the earlier recessionary
conditions.  Since the middle of 2007, there has been disruption and turmoil in financial markets around the world. Throughout much of the
United States, there have been dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, high levels of unemployment and underemployment, and reduced earnings, or in some cases losses, for businesses across many
industries, with reduced investments in growth.  This overall environment resulted in significant stress for the financial services industry,
and led to distress in credit markets, reduced liquidity for many types of financial assets, including loans and securities, and concerns regarding the financial strength and adequacy of the capitalization of financial institutions. Some financial
institutions around the world have failed, some have needed significant additional capital, and others have been forced to seek acquisition partners.
 

   11 





Table of Contents


 Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of
counterparties, as well as concern about their own capital and liquidity positions, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack
of confidence in the financial markets exacerbated the state of economic distress and hampered, and to some extent continues to hamper, efforts to bring about and sustain an economic recovery. 
These economic conditions have had an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. While the economy is currently experiencing a moderate
recovery, we expect these conditions to continue to have an ongoing negative impact on us. A slowing or failure of the economic recovery would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult economic and market conditions on us and on others
in the financial services industry.  In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with the current economic and market
environment: 


 
•
 
 Investors may have less confidence in the equity markets in general and in financial services industry stocks in particular, which could place downward
pressure on PNC’s stock price and resulting market valuation. 


 
•
 
 Economic and market developments may further affect consumer and business confidence levels and may cause declines in credit usage and adverse changes
in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. 


 
•
 
 Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our
customers become less predictive of future behaviors. 


 
•
 
 The process we use to estimate losses in our credit exposures requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including with respect to economic
conditions and how economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. At any point in time or for any length of time, such losses may no longer be capable of accurate estimation, which may, in turn, adversely impact
the reliability of the process for estimating losses and, therefore, the establishment of adequate reserves for those losses. 


 
•
 
 We could suffer decreases in customer desire to do business with us, whether as a result of a decreased demand for loans or other financial products
and services or decreased deposits or other investments in accounts with PNC. 


 
•
 
 Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current
market conditions, or otherwise. Governmental support




 
 
 
provided to financial institutions could alter the competitive landscape. 


 
•
 
 Increased regulation of compensation at financial services companies as part of government efforts to reform the industry may hinder our ability to
attract, retain and incentivize well-qualified individuals in key positions. 


 
•
 
 We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums because the failure of many depository institutions during the financial
crises significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits, leading to regulatory reform efforts aimed at charging higher premiums in order to replenish FDIC reserves.



 
•
 
 Investors in mortgage loans and other assets that we sell are more likely to seek indemnification from us against losses or otherwise seek to have us
share in such losses or to request us to repurchase loans that they believe do not comply with applicable representations and warranties or other contractual provisions. 


 
•
 
 We may be subject to additional fees and taxes as the government seeks to recover some of the costs of its recovery efforts, in particular from the
financial services industry.  The regulatory environment for the financial services industry is being significantly
impacted by financial regulatory reform initiatives in the United States and elsewhere, including Dodd-Frank and regulations promulgated to implement it.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The United States and other governments have undertaken major reform of the financial services industry, including new efforts to protect consumers and investors from financial abuse. We expect to face
further increased regulation of our industry as a result of current and future initiatives intended to provide economic stimulus, financial market stability and enhanced regulation of financial services companies and to enhance the liquidity and
solvency of financial institutions and markets. We also expect in many cases more aggressive enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state levels. Compliance with regulations will increase our costs, reduce our revenue, and limit our
ability to pursue certain business opportunities.  Dodd-Frank mandates the most wide-ranging overhaul of financial industry regulation in
decades. Dodd-Frank was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Many parts of the law are now in effect and others are now in the implementation stage, which is likely to continue for several years. The law requires that regulators, some of which are
new regulatory bodies created by Dodd-Frank, draft, review and approve more than 200 implementing regulations and conduct numerous studies that are likely to lead to more regulations.
 

   12 





Table of Contents


 Newly created regulatory bodies include the CFPB and the FSOC. The CFPB has been given authority to
regulate consumer financial products and services sold by banks and non-bank companies and to supervise banks with assets of more than $25 billion for compliance with Federal  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">consumer protection laws. The FSOC has been charged with identifying systemic risks and strengthening the regulation of financial holding companies and certain non-bank companies deemed to be
“systemically important” and could, in extraordinary cases, break up financial firms that are deemed to be “too big to fail.”  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">A number of reform provisions are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies, including PNC, do business. For example, Dodd-Frank prohibits banks from engaging in
some types of proprietary trading, restricts the ability of banks to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds, and requires banks to move some derivatives businesses to separately capitalized subsidiaries of holding companies. It also
places limitations on the interchange fees we can charge for debit transactions. While the exact impact of the preemption provisions of Dodd-Frank is as yet unknown, state authorities may assert that certain state consumer financial laws that
provide different requirements or limitations than Federal law may apply to national banks, including PNC Bank, N.A. Such state laws may be preempted if they meet certain standards set forth in Dodd-Frank. Other provisions of Dodd-Frank will affect
regulatory oversight, holding company capital requirements, risk retention for securitizations, and residential mortgage products.  In
addition, capital requirements imposed by Dodd-Frank, together with new standards under the so-called “Basel III” initiatives, will impose on banks and bank holding companies the need to maintain more and higher quality capital than has
historically been the case.  While much of how the Dodd-Frank and other financial industry reforms will change our current business operations
depends on the specific regulatory promulgations and interpretations, many of which have yet to be released or finalized, it is clear that the reforms, both under Dodd-Frank and otherwise, will have a significant effect on our entire industry.
Although Dodd-Frank and other reforms will affect a number of the areas in which we do business, it is not clear at this time the full extent of the adjustments that will be required and the extent to which we will be able to adjust our businesses
in response to the requirements. Although it is difficult to predict the magnitude and extent of these effects at this stage, we believe compliance with Dodd-Frank and its implementing regulations and other initiatives will negatively impact revenue
and increase the cost of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an ongoing basis, and will also limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.

 Our lending businesses and the value of the loans and debt securities we hold may be adversely affected
by economic conditions, including a reversal or slowing of the current moderate recovery. Downward valuation of debt securities could also negatively impact our capital position.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Given the high percentage of our assets represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the importance of lending to our overall business, weak economic conditions are likely to have a negative impact on
our business and our results of operations. This could adversely impact loan utilization rates as well as delinquencies, defaults and customer ability to meet obligations under the loans. This is particularly the case during the period in which the
aftermath of recessionary conditions continues and the positive effects of economic recovery appear to be slow to materialize and unevenly spread among our customers.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Further, weak economic conditions would likely have a negative impact on our business, our ability to serve our customers, and our results of operations. Such conditions are likely to lead to increases in
the number of borrowers who become delinquent or default or otherwise demonstrate a decreased ability to meet their obligations under their loans. This would result in higher levels of non-performing loans, net charge-offs, provision for credit
losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. The value to us of other assets such as investment securities, most of which are debt securities or other financial instruments supported by loans, similarly would be negatively impacted by
widespread decreases in credit quality resulting from a weakening of the economy.  Our regional concentrations make us particularly at risk
to adverse economic conditions in our primary retail banking footprint.  Although many of our businesses are national in scope, our retail
banking business is concentrated within our retail branch network footprint, located primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Maryland, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Virginia, Missouri, Delaware, Washington, D.C., and
Wisconsin. Thus, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in these states or the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions more generally.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Our business and performance are vulnerable to the impact of volatility in debt and equity markets.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">As most of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be particularly sensitive to the performance of the financial markets. Turmoil and volatility in U.S. and global financial
markets, such as that experienced during the recent financial crisis, can be a major contributory factor to overall weak economic conditions, leading to some of the risks discussed above, including the impaired ability of borrowers
 

   13 





Table of Contents


 
and other counterparties to meet obligations to us. Financial market volatility also can have some of the following adverse effects on PNC and our business and financial performance: 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value or liquidity of our on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value of servicing rights, including those we carry at fair value. 


 
•
 
 It can affect our ability to access capital markets to raise funds necessary to support our businesses and maintain our overall liquidity position.
Inability to access capital markets as needed, or at cost effective rates, could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value of the assets that we manage or otherwise administer for others or the assets for which we provide processing and information
services. Although we are not directly impacted by changes in the value of such assets, decreases in the value of those assets would affect related fee income and could result in decreased demand for our services. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the required funding of our pension obligations to the extent that the value of the assets supporting those obligations drops below
minimum levels. 


 
•
 
 In general, it can impact the nature, profitability or risk profile of the financial transactions in which we engage. 
Volatility in the markets for real estate and other assets commonly securing financial products has been and is likely to continue to be a significant
contributor to overall volatility in financial markets.  Our business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market
interest rates and movements in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which we have no
control and which we may not be able to predict adequately.  As a result of the high percentage of our assets and liabilities that are in
the form of interest-bearing or interest-related instruments, changes in interest rates, in the shape of the yield curve or in spreads between different market interest rates can have a material effect on our business, our profitability and the
value of our financial assets and liabilities. For example: 


 
•
 
 Changes in interest rates or interest rate spreads can affect the difference between the interest that we earn on assets and the interest that we pay
on liabilities, which impacts our overall net interest income and profitability. 


 
•
 
 Such changes can affect the ability of borrowers to meet obligations under variable or adjustable rate loans and other debt instruments, and can, in
turn, affect our loss rates on those assets. 



 
•
 
 Such changes may decrease the demand for interest-rate based products and services, including loans and deposit accounts. 



 
•
 
 Such changes can also affect our ability to hedge various forms of market and interest rate risk and may decrease the profitability or increase the
risk associated with such hedges. 


 
•
 
 Movements in interest rates also affect mortgage prepayment speeds and could result in impairments of mortgage servicing assets or otherwise affect the
profitability of such assets.  The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the
Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. These governmental policies can thus affect the activities and results of operations of banking companies such as PNC. An important function of
the Federal Reserve is to regulate the national supply of bank credit and certain interest rates. The actions of the Federal Reserve influence the rates of interest that we charge on loans and that we pay on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits
and can also affect the value of our on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Both due to the impact on rates and by controlling access to direct funding from the Federal Reserve Banks, the Federal Reserve’s policies also
influence, to a significant extent, our cost of funding. We cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effect that they may have on our activities and financial results. 
PNC faces increased risk arising out of its mortgage lending and servicing businesses.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Numerous federal and state governmental, legislative and regulatory authorities are investigating practices in the mortgage lending and servicing industries. PNC has received inquiries from governmental,
legislative and regulatory authorities on this topic and is cooperating with these inquiries. These inquiries could lead to administrative, civil or criminal proceedings, possibly resulting in remedies including fines, penalties, restitution, or
alterations in our business practices.  In addition to governmental or regulatory investigations, PNC, like other companies with residential
mortgage origination and servicing operations, faces the risk of class actions, other litigation and claims from the owners of, investors in or purchasers of mortgages originated or serviced by PNC (or securities backed by such mortgages);
homeowners involved in foreclosure proceedings; downstream purchasers of homes sold after foreclosure; title insurers; and other potential claimants. At this time PNC cannot predict the ultimate overall cost to or effect upon PNC from governmental,
legislative or regulatory actions and private litigation or claims arising out of residential mortgage lending and servicing practices, although such actions, litigation and
 

   14 





Table of Contents


 
claims could, individually or in the aggregate, result in significant expense.  PNC
commenced a review of its residential mortgage servicing procedures related to foreclosures after learning of the industry-wide servicing issues in late September 2010. After a review of the legal requirements in all fifty states and the District of
Columbia, and of its own procedures, practices, information systems, and documentation, PNC has developed enhanced procedures designed to ensure that the documentation accompanying the foreclosures it pursues complies with all relevant law. The
review, correction and refiling of foreclosure documentation in the various states is ongoing and could continue for a number of months, depending upon federal, state, local and private judicial and regulatory actions. 
Notwithstanding the actions that PNC has taken as described in the preceding paragraph, PNC is one of the fourteen federally regulated mortgage servicers
subject to a publicly-disclosed interagency horizontal review of residential mortgage servicing operations. That review is expected to result in formal enforcement actions against many or all of the companies subject to review, which actions are
expected to incorporate remedial requirements, heightened mortgage servicing standards and potential civil money penalties. PNC expects that it and PNC Bank will enter into consent orders with the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively, relating
to the residential mortgage servicing operations of PNC Bank. See “Residential Mortgage Foreclosure Matters” in Item 7 of this Report for additional information. PNC expects that these consent orders, among other things, will describe
certain foreclosure-related practices and controls that the regulators found to be deficient and will require PNC and PNC Bank to, among other things, develop and implement plans and programs to enhance PNC’s servicing and foreclosure processes
and take certain other remedial actions, and oversee compliance with the orders and the new plans and programs. In addition, either or both of these agencies may seek civil money penalties.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The issues described above may affect the value of our ownership interests, direct or indirect, in property subject to foreclosure. In addition, possible delays in the schedule for processing foreclosures
may result in an increase in nonperforming loans, additional servicing costs and possible demands for contractual fees or penalties under servicing agreements. There is also an increased risk of incurring costs related to further remedial and
related efforts required by the consent orders and related to repurchase requests arising out of either the foreclosure process or origination issues. Reputational damage arising out of this industry-wide inquiry could also have an adverse effect
upon our existing mortgage business and could reduce future business opportunities.  One or more of the foregoing could adversely affect
PNC’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

 We grow our business in part by acquiring other financial services companies from time to time, and
these acquisitions present a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing. 
Acquisitions of other financial services companies or financial services assets present risks to PNC in addition to those presented by the nature of the
business acquired. In general, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive to complete than expected (including unanticipated costs incurred in connection with the integration of the acquired company) and the anticipated benefits (including
anticipated cost savings and strategic gains) may be significantly more difficult or take longer to achieve than expected. In some cases, acquisitions involve our entry into new businesses or new geographic or other markets, and these situations
also present risks in instances where we may be inexperienced in these new areas.  As a regulated financial institution, our ability to pursue
or complete attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted by regulatory delays or other regulatory issues. In addition, regulatory and/or legal issues relating to the pre-acquisition operations of an acquired business may cause
reputational harm to PNC following the acquisition and integration of the acquired business into ours and may result in additional future costs or regulatory limitations arising as a result of those issues. The processes of integrating acquired
businesses, as well as the deconsolidation of divested businesses, also pose many additional possible risks which could result in increased costs, liability or other adverse consequences to PNC. Note 22 Legal Proceedings in the Notes To Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report describes several legal proceedings related to pre-acquisition activities of companies we have acquired, in particular National City. Other such legal proceedings may be commenced in the future.
 The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely
execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit
risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the
loan or derivative exposure due us.  

   15 





Table of Contents


 We operate in a highly competitive environment, in terms of the products and services we offer and the
geographic markets in which we conduct business, as well as in our labor markets where we compete for talented employees. Competition could adversely impact our customer acquisition, growth and retention, as well as our credit spreads and product
pricing, causing us to lose market share and deposits and revenues.  We are subject to intense competition from various financial
institutions as well as from non-bank entities that engage in many similar activities without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. This competition is described in Item 1 of this Report under “Competition.”
 In all, the principal bases for competition are pricing (including the interest rates charged on loans or paid on interest-bearing deposits),
product structure, the range of products and services offered, and the quality of customer service (including convenience and responsiveness to customer needs and concerns). The ability to access and use technology is an increasingly important
competitive factor in the financial services industry, and it is a critically important component to customer satisfaction as it affects our ability to deliver the right products and services. 
Another increasingly competitive factor in the financial services industry is the competition to attract and retain talented employees across many of our
business and support areas. This competition leads to increased expenses in many business areas and can also cause us to not pursue certain business opportunities.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">A failure to adequately address the competitive pressures we face could make it harder for us to attract and retain customers across our businesses. On the other hand, meeting these competitive pressures
could require us to incur significant additional expense or to accept risk beyond what we would otherwise view as desirable under the circumstances. In addition, in our interest rate sensitive businesses, pressures to increase rates on deposits or
decrease rates on loans could reduce our net interest margin with a resulting negative impact on our net interest income.  The performance
of our asset management businesses may be adversely affected by the relative performance of our products compared with offerings by competitors as well as by overall economic and market conditions. 
Asset management revenue is primarily based on a percentage of the value of the assets and thus is impacted by general changes in market valuations,
customer preferences and needs. In addition, investment performance is an important factor influencing the level of assets. Poor investment performance could impair revenue and growth as existing clients might withdraw funds in favor of better
performing products. Additionally, the ability to attract funds from existing and new

 
clients might diminish. Overall economic conditions may limit the amount that customers are able or willing to invest.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The failure or negative performance of products of other financial institutions could lead to a loss of confidence in similar products offered by us without regard to the performance of our products. Such
a negative contagion could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products and have a material adverse impact on our assets under management and asset management revenues and earnings. 
As a regulated financial services firm, we are subject to numerous governmental regulations and to comprehensive examination and supervision by
regulators, which affect our business as well as our competitive position.  PNC is a bank and financial holding company and is subject to
numerous governmental regulations involving both its business and organization.  Our businesses are subject to regulation by multiple bank
regulatory bodies as well as multiple securities industry regulators. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our ability to repurchase stock or to receive dividends from subsidiaries that operate in the banking and securities businesses and impose
capital adequacy requirements. PNC’s ability to service its obligations is dependent on the receipt of dividends and advances from its subsidiaries. Applicable laws and regulations also restrict permissible activities and investments and
require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, mutual fund and other customers, and for the protection of customer information, among other things. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and
nonmonetary sanctions as well as damage to our reputation and businesses.  In addition, we are subject to comprehensive examination and
supervision by banking and other regulatory bodies. Examination reports and ratings (which often are not publicly available) and other aspects of this supervisory framework can materially impact the conduct, growth, and profitability of our
businesses.  Due to the current economic environment and issues facing the financial services industry, we anticipate that there will be new
legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, including many focused specifically on banking and other financial services in which we are engaged. These initiatives will be in addition to the actions already taken by Congress
and the regulators, through enactment of EESA, the Recovery Act, the Credit CARD Act, the SAFE Act, and Dodd-Frank, as well as changes to the regulations implementing the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Federal Truth in Lending Act, and
the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. Legislative and regulatory initiatives have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of
 

   16 





Table of Contents


 
our business. This impact could include rules and regulations that affect the nature and profitability of our business activities, how we use our capital, how we compensate and incent our
employees, and other matters potentially having a negative effect on our overall business results and prospects.  Under the regulations of the
Federal Reserve, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result, the Federal Reserve could require PNC to commit resources to PNC Bank, N.A. when doing so is not otherwise in the
interests of PNC or its shareholders or creditors.  Our ability to pay dividends to shareholders is largely dependent on dividends from our
operating subsidiaries, principally PNC Bank, N.A. Banks are subject to regulation on the amount and circumstances of dividends they can pay to their holding companies.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">We discuss these and other regulatory issues applicable to PNC, including some particular areas of current regulatory focus or concern, in the Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 1 of
this Report and in Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report and here by reference.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">A failure to have adequate policies and procedures to comply with regulatory requirements could expose us to damages, fines and regulatory penalties and other regulatory actions, which could be
significant, and could also injure our reputation with customers and others with whom we do business.  We must comply with generally accepted
accounting principles established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, accounting, disclosure and other rules set forth by the SEC, income tax and other regulations established by the US Treasury and state and local taxing authorities, and
revenue rulings and other guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, which affect our financial condition and results of operations. 
Changes in accounting standards, or interpretations of those standards, can impact our revenue recognition and expense policies and affect our estimation
methods used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. Changes in income tax regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, and other guidance can impact our tax liability and alter the timing of cash flows associated with tax deductions
and payments. New guidance often dictates how changes to standards and regulations are to be presented in our consolidated financial statements, as either an adjustment to beginning retained earnings for the period or as income or expense in current
period earnings. In some cases, changes may be applied to previously reported disclosures.

 The determination of the amount of loss allowances and impairments taken on our assets is highly
subjective and inaccurate estimates could materially impact our results of operations or financial position.  The determination of the
amount of loss allowances and asset impairments varies by asset type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as
conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has
accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of
future impairments or allowances.  Our asset valuation may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing
interpretations and this, along with market factors such as volatility in one or more markets, could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 
We must use estimates, assumptions, and judgments when assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at
fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable
inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flow and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit
quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors or assumptions in any of the areas underlying our estimates could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations. 
During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it
may be more difficult to value certain of our assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were historically in active markets with significant observable data that
rapidly become illiquid due to market volatility, a loss in market confidence or other factors. In such cases, valuations in certain asset classes may require more subjectivity and management judgment; valuations may include inputs and assumptions
that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented market conditions in any particular market (e.g. credit, equity, fixed income, foreign exchange) could
 

   17 





Table of Contents


 
materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. 
We are subject to operational risk. 
Like all businesses, we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal
processes and systems, and external events. Operational risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as
well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. We are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can
have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business. Although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls which we review and update, no system of controls, however well designed
and maintained, is infallible. Control weaknesses or failures or other operational risks could result in charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone business opportunities. 
We continually encounter technological change and we could falter in our ability to remain competitive in this arena. 
The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and
services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using
technology to provide products and services that satisfy customer demands and create efficiencies in our operations. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services that allow us to remain competitive or be
successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.  Our information systems may experience interruptions or breaches in
security.  We also rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in
security of these systems could result in disruptions to our accounting, deposit, loan and other systems, and adversely affect our customer relationships. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of these
possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be sufficiently remediated. The occurrence of any such failure, interruption or security breach of
our systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of

 
customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and financial liability.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Our business and financial results could be impacted materially by adverse results in legal proceedings and governmental investigations and inquiries. 
Many aspects of our business involve substantial risk of legal liability. We have been named or threatened to be named as defendants in various legal
proceedings arising from our business activities (and in some cases from the activities of companies we have acquired). In addition, we are regularly the subject of governmental investigations and other forms of regulatory inquiry. We also are at
risk when we have agreed to indemnify others for legal proceedings and governmental investigations and inquiries they face, such as in connection with the sale of a business or assets by us. The results of these legal proceedings and governmental
investigations and inquiries could lead to significant monetary damages or penalties, restrictions on the way in which we conduct our business, or reputational harm.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Although we establish accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can
be reasonably estimated, we do not have accruals for all legal proceedings where we face a risk of loss. In addition, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to us from the legal proceedings in question. Thus, our ultimate losses may be
higher or lower, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies.  Our business and financial
performance could be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by disasters, by terrorist activities or by international hostilities. 
Neither the occurrence nor the potential impact of disasters, terrorist activities and international hostilities can be predicted. However, these
occurrences could impact us directly (for example, by causing significant damage to our facilities or preventing us from conducting our business in the ordinary course), or indirectly as a result of their impact on our borrowers, depositors, other
customers, suppliers or other counterparties. We could also suffer adverse consequences to the extent that disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities affect the financial markets or the economy in general or in any particular
region. These types of impacts could lead, for example, to an increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could result in our experiencing higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses.
 Our ability to mitigate the adverse consequences of such occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of our resiliency planning, and our
ability, if any, to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The adverse impact of
 

   18 





Table of Contents


 
disasters or terrorist activities or international hostilities also could be increased to the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or regional emergency responders
or on the part of other organizations and businesses that we deal with, particularly those that we depend upon but have no control over.  
ITEM 1B