ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    You should carefully consider the following risk factors and
    warnings before making an investment decision. You are cautioned
    not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
    You should also understand that it is not possible to predict or
    identify all such factors and should not consider the following
    list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and
    uncertainties. If any of the risks described below actually
    occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations
    or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In that
    case, the price of our securities could decline and you could
    lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to
    other information set forth in this document.


 



    General
    economic conditions, including difficult credit and residential
    construction markets, affect demand for our
    products.


 


    We compete around the world in various geographic regions and
    product markets. Among these, the most significant are global
    industrial markets (for both the Technical Products and Water
    Groups) and residential markets (for the Water Group). Important
    factors for our businesses include the overall strength of the
    economy and our customers’ confidence in the economy;
    industrial and governmental capital spending; the strength of
    the residential and commercial real estate markets; unemployment
    rates; availability of consumer and commercial financing for our
    customers and end-users; and interest rates. New construction
    for residential





    
    7



Table of Contents





    housing and home improvement activity fell in 2007, 2008 and
    2009, which reduced revenue growth in the residential businesses
    within our Water Group. While we saw some stabilization in 2010,
    we believe that weakness in this market could negatively impact
    our revenues and margins in future periods. Further, while we
    attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market
    fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and
    geographic regions, we cannot assure you that a significant or
    sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region
    would not have a material adverse effect on us.


 



    Our
    inability to sustain organic growth could adversely affect our
    financial performance.


 


    Over the past five years, our organic growth has been generated
    in part from expanding international sales, entering new
    distribution channels, introducing new products and price
    increases. To grow more rapidly than our end markets, we would
    have to continue to expand our geographic reach, further
    diversify our distribution channels, continue to introduce new
    products and increase sales of existing products to our customer
    base. Difficult economic and competitive factors materially and
    adversely impacted our financial performance in 2009. These
    conditions started to improve in many of our end markets in
    2010, but we cannot assure you that these markets will continue
    to improve nor that we will be able to increase revenues and
    profitability to match our earlier financial performance. We
    have chosen to focus our growth initiatives in specific end
    markets and geographies. We cannot assure you that these growth
    initiatives will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in
    other markets.


 



    Our
    businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be
    forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs.


 


    Our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of
    their respective markets. Competition may force us to cut prices
    or to incur additional costs to remain competitive. We compete
    on the basis of product design, quality, availability,
    performance, customer service and price. Present or future
    competitors may have greater financial, technical or other
    resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected
    business or businesses. We cannot assure you that these and
    other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our
    future results of operations.


 



    Material
    cost and other inflation have adversely affected and could
    continue to affect our results of operations.


 


    In the past, we have experienced material cost and other
    inflation in a number of our businesses. We strive for
    productivity improvements and implement increases in selling
    prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials
    (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as
    pension, health care and insurance. We continue to implement our
    excellence in operations initiatives in order to mitigate the
    impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. We
    cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be
    successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity.
    Continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to
    generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely
    negatively impact our results of operations.


 



    Seasonality
    of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our
    financial results.


 


    We experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within our
    Water Group. End-user demand for pool equipment in our primary
    markets follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs
    from April to August. The magnitude of the sales increase is
    partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or
    “early buy” programs (generally including extended
    payment terms
    and/or
    additional discounts). Demand for residential and agricultural
    water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly
    by heavy flooding and droughts. We cannot assure you that
    seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations.


 



    Intellectual
    property challenges may hinder product development and
    marketing.


 


    Patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies,
    customer relationships, trade marks, trade names and brand names
    are important to our business. Intellectual property protection,
    however, may not preclude





    
    8



Table of Contents





    competitors from developing products similar to ours or from
    challenging our names or products. Over the past few years, we
    have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our
    markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual
    property as a means to compete. Patent and trademark challenges
    increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products.


 



    Our
    results of operations may be negatively impacted by
    litigation.


 


    Our businesses expose us to potential litigation, such as
    product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture and
    sale of our products. While we currently maintain what we
    believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot
    assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on
    acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate
    protection against potential liabilities. In addition, we
    self-insure a portion of product liability claims. A series of
    successful claims against us for significant amounts could
    materially and adversely affect our product reputation,
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 



    We may
    not be able to expand through acquisitions and acquisitions we
    complete may adversely affect our financial
    performance.


 


    We intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions
    primarily in our current business segments, though we may
    consider acquisitions outside of these segments as well. Our
    ability to expand through acquisitions is subject to various
    risks, including the following:


 




    
    



        • 

        Higher acquisition prices;




 



        • 

        Lack of suitable acquisition candidates in targeted product or
    market areas;




 



        • 

        Increased competition for acquisitions, especially in the water
    industry;




 



        • 

        Inability to integrate acquired businesses effectively or
    profitably; and




 



        • 

        Inability to achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits
    from acquisitions.





 


    Acquisitions we may undertake could have a material adverse
    effect on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal
    quarters immediately following the acquisitions, while we
    attempt to integrate operations of the acquired businesses into
    our operations. Once integrated, acquired operations may not
    achieve the levels of financial performance originally
    anticipated.


 



    The
    availability and cost of capital could have a negative impact on
    our financial performance.


 


    Our plans to vigorously compete in our chosen markets will
    require additional capital for future acquisitions, capital
    expenditures, growth of working capital and continued
    international and regional expansion. In the past, we have
    financed growth of our businesses primarily through cash from
    operations and debt financing. While we refinanced our primary
    credit agreements in 2007 on what we believe to be favorable
    terms, future acquisitions or other uses of funds may require us
    to expand our debt financing resources or to issue equity
    securities. Our financial results may be adversely affected if
    new financing is not available on favorable terms or if interest
    costs under our debt financings are higher than the income
    generated by acquisitions or other internal growth. In addition,
    future share issuances could be dilutive to your equity
    investment if we sell shares into the market or issue additional
    stock as consideration in any acquisition. We cannot assure you
    that we will be able to issue equity securities or obtain future
    debt financing at favorable terms. Without sufficient financing,
    we will not be able to pursue our targeted growth strategy and
    our acquisition program, which may limit our revenue growth and
    future financial performance.


 



    We are
    exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from
    operating a multinational business.


 


    Sales outside of the United States, including export sales from
    our domestic businesses, accounted for approximately 34% of our
    net sales in both 2010 and 2009. Further, most of our businesses
    obtain some





    
    9



Table of Contents





    products, components and raw materials from foreign suppliers.
    Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic
    and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous
    countries. These risks include:


 




    
    



        • 

        changes in general economic and political conditions in
    countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets;




 



        • 

        relatively more severe economic conditions in some international
    markets than in the United States;




 



        • 

        the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting
    receivables through foreign legal systems;




 



        • 

        trade protection measures and import or export licensing
    requirements;




 



        • 

        the possibility of terrorist action against us or our operations;




 



        • 

        the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade
    restrictions;




 



        • 

        difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in
    non-U.S. labor
    markets;




 



        • 

        changes in tax laws or rulings could have an adverse impact on
    our effective tax rate;




 



        • 

        the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in foreign
    countries; and




 



        • 

        required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and
    regulations.





 


    Our business success depends in part on our ability to
    anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We
    cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a
    material adverse effect on our international operations or on
    our business as a whole.


 



    Our
    international operations are subject to foreign market and
    currency fluctuation risks.


 


    We expect the percentage of our sales outside of the United
    States to increase in the future. Over the past few years, the
    economies of some of the foreign countries in which we do
    business have had slower growth than the U.S. economy. The
    European Union currently accounts for the majority of our
    foreign sales and income, in which our most significant European
    market is Germany. In addition, we have a significant and
    growing business in the Asia-Pacific region, but the economic
    conditions in countries in this region are subject to different
    growth expectations, market weaknesses and business practices.
    We cannot predict how changing market conditions in these
    regions will impact our financial results.


 


    We are also exposed to the risk of fluctuation of foreign
    currency exchange rates which may affect our financial results
    as we manufacture and source certain products, components and
    raw materials throughout the world.


 



    We
    have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future
    impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a
    material negative impact on our financial results.


 


    We test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for
    impairment on an annual basis, by comparing the estimated fair
    value of each of our reporting units to their respective
    carrying values on their balance sheets. At December 31,
    2010 our goodwill and intangible assets were approximately
    $2,519.6 million and represented approximately 63.4% of our
    total assets. Long-term declines in projected future cash flows
    could result in future goodwill and intangible asset
    impairments. Because of the significance of our goodwill and
    intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial results.


 



    We are
    exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities
    and litigation.


 


    We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and
    regulations governing our environmental practices, public and
    worker health and safety and the indoor and outdoor environment.
    Compliance with these environmental, health and safety
    regulations could require us to satisfy environmental
    liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or
    otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and
    results of operations. Any violations of these laws by us could
    cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could





    
    10



Table of Contents





    harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. We
    are also required to comply with various environmental laws and
    maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary
    renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we
    could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to
    obtain any additional permits that we may require.


 


    We have been named as defendants, targets or potentially
    responsible parties (“PRP”) in a number of
    environmental
    clean-ups
    relating to our current or former business units. We have
    disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in
    certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential
    liability for certain environmental obligations. We have
    received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. We
    may be named as a PRP at other sites in the future for existing
    business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses.


 


    We cannot ensure you that environmental requirements will not
    change or become more stringent over time or that our eventual
    environmental
    clean-up
    costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current
    reserves.


 



    We are
    exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to
    climate change.


 


    Climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide.
    Many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming
    to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon
    dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory
    efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The
    U.S. Congress and federal and state regulatory agencies
    have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that
    would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. It is
    uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory
    carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted.
    Similarly, certain countries have adopted the Kyoto Protocol and
    this and other international initiatives under consideration
    could affect our international operations. These actions could
    increase costs associated with our operations, including costs
    for raw materials and transportation. Because it is uncertain
    what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential
    impact of such laws on our future consolidated financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows.


 



    Provisions
    of our Restated Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and Minnesota
    law could deter takeover attempts.


 


    Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under
    Minnesota law and in our shareholder rights plan could prevent
    or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor.


 


    Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws include
    provisions relating to the election, appointment and removal of
    directors, as well as shareholder notice and shareholder voting
    requirements which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a
    merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control.
    In addition, our common share purchase rights could cause
    substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to
    acquire us, which could deter some acquirers from making
    takeover proposals or tender offers. Also, the Minnesota
    Business Corporations Act contains control share acquisition and
    business combination provisions which could delay, prevent or
    make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or
    other change of control. Our shareholders might view any such
    transaction as being in their best interests since the
    transaction could result in a higher stock price than the
    current market price for our common stock.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B