Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    You should carefully consider the following risk factors and
    warnings before making an investment decision. If any of the
    risks described below actually occur, our business, financial
    condition, results of operations or prospects could be
    materially adversely affected. In that case, the price of our
    securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your
    investment. You should also refer to the other information set
    forth in this document.


 



    Demand
    for our products will be affected by general economic
    conditions.


 


    Demand for our residential and commercial products is influenced
    by many economic conditions, including but not limited to new
    construction activity and the level of repair and remodeling
    activity. The level of new construction and repair and
    remodeling activity is affected by a number of factors beyond
    our control, such as the overall strength of the economy
    (including confidence in the economy by our customers), the
    strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets,
    institutional building activity, the age of existing housing
    stock, unemployment rates, availability of consumer financing
    and interest rates. Any declines in new housing or commercial
    construction starts or demand for replacement building and home
    improvement products may adversely impact us, and there can be
    no assurance that any such adverse effects would not be material
    and would not continue for an indeterminate period of time.
    Further, while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic
    or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets
    and geographic regions, we cannot assure you that a significant
    or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic
    region would not have a material adverse effect on us.


 



    Our
    businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be
    forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs.


 


    Our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of
    their respective markets. Competition may force us to cut prices
    or to incur additional costs to remain competitive. We compete
    on the basis of product design, quality, availability,
    performance, customer service and price. Present or future
    competitors may have greater financial, technical or other
    resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected
    business or businesses. We cannot assure you that these and
    other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations.


 



    Our
    inability to sustain consistent organic growth could adversely
    affect our financial performance.


 


    In 2005, our organic growth was generated in part from expanding
    international sales, entering new distribution channels, and
    introducing new products. To grow more rapidly than our end
    markets, we will have to continue to expand our geographic
    reach, further diversify our distribution channels, continue to
    introduce new products, and increase sales of existing products
    to our customer base. We may not be able to successfully meet
    those challenges, which could adversely affect our ability to
    sustain consistent organic growth. If we are unable to sustain
    consistent organic growth, we will be less likely to meet our
    stated revenue growth targets, which could adversely affect our
    net income growth, and, in turn, the market price of our stock.


 



    Our
    inability to complete or successfully complete and integrate
    acquisitions could adversely affect our financial
    performance.


 


    A significant percentage of our net sales growth in 2005 and
    2004 was generated as a result of acquisitions completed during
    those periods, including our acquisition of WICOR and Everpure.
    We may not be able to sustain this level of growth from
    acquisition activity in the future. We intend to continue to
    evaluate strategic acquisitions primarily in our current
    business segments, and we may consider acquisitions outside of
    these segments as well. Our ability to expand through
    acquisitions is subject to various risks, including the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increased competition for acquisitions, especially in the water
    industry;



 


     
        • 

    
    higher acquisition prices;






    
    8



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    lack of suitable acquisition candidates in targeted product or
    market areas;



 


     
        • 

    
    diversion of management time and attention to acquisitions and
    acquired businesses;



 


     
        • 

    
    inability to integrate acquired businesses effectively or
    profitably; and



 


     
        • 

    
    inability to achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits
    from acquisitions.





 


    Acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our
    operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters
    immediately following the acquisitions, while we attempt to
    integrate operations of the acquired businesses into our
    operations. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve
    the levels of profitability originally anticipated.


 



    Material
    cost inflation could adversely affect our results of
    operations.


 


    We are experiencing material cost inflation in a number of our
    businesses. We are striving for greater productivity
    improvements and implementing selective increases in selling
    prices to help mitigate cost increases in base materials such as
    steel, resins, ocean freight and fuel, health care and
    insurance. We also are continuing to implement our excellence in
    operations initiatives in order to continuously reduce our
    costs. We cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be
    successful to manage our costs or increase our productivity.
    Continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to
    generate cost savings or improve productivity may negatively
    impact our results of operations.


 



    Seasonality
    of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our
    financial results.


 


    We experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within our
    Water Group. End-user demand for pool/spa equipment follows warm
    weather trends and is at seasonal highs from March to July. The
    magnitude of the sales spike is partially mitigated by effective
    use of the distribution channel by employing advance sales
    programs (generally including extended payment terms
    and/or
    additional discounts). Demand for residential and agricultural
    water systems is also impacted by water patterns particularly
    related to heavy flooding and droughts. We cannot assure you
    that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations.


 



    Intellectual
    property challenges may hinder product development and
    marketing.


 


    Patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies,
    customer relationships, trade marks, trade names, and brand
    names are important to our business. Intellectual property
    protection, however, may not preclude competitors from
    developing products similar to ours or from challenging our
    names or products. Over the past few years, we have noticed an
    increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use
    conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a
    means to compete. Patent and trademark challenges increase our
    costs to develop, engineer and market our products.


 



    Our
    results of operations may be negatively impacted by
    litigation.


 


    Our business exposes us to potential litigation, especially
    product liability suits that are inherent in the design,
    manufacture, and sale of our products. While we currently
    maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability
    insurance, we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain
    this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will
    provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. In
    addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims.
    A series of successful claims against us could materially and
    adversely affect our product reputation and our financial
    condition, results of operations, and cash flows.


 



    We may
    be required to make payments in respect of businesses that we
    have sold.


 


    We have sold a number of businesses over the last ten years,
    including the sale of our former Tools Group to BDK in October
    2004. In this and other dispositions, we typically agree to
    indemnify the buyers with respect to certain matters relating to
    the businesses that we have sold, and we may from time to time
    be required to make payments to the buyers under those
    indemnities. To the extent we are required to make any



    
    9



Table of Contents




    such payments in the future, those payments could be
    substantial, which could require us to borrow additional amounts
    at unfavorable borrowing terms and cause a significant decrease
    in our liquidity, both of which could severely harm our business.


 



    The
    availability and cost of capital could have a negative impact on
    our continued growth.


 


    Our plans to continue our growth in our chosen markets will
    require additional capital for future acquisitions, capital
    expenditures for existing businesses, growth of working capital,
    and continued international and regional expansion. In the past,
    we have financed our growth primarily through debt financings.
    Any significant future acquisitions will require us to expand
    our debt financing resources or to issue equity securities. Our
    financial results may be adversely affected if interest costs
    under our debt financings are higher than the income generated
    by acquisitions or other internal growth. In addition, future
    acquisitions could be dilutive to your equity investment if we
    issue additional stock to fund acquisitions. We cannot be
    assured that we will be able to issue equity securities or to
    obtain future debt financing at favorable terms. Without
    sufficient financing, we will not be able to pursue our growth
    strategy, which will limit our growth and revenues in the future.


 



    Our
    international operations are subject to foreign market and
    currency fluctuation risks.


 


    We expect the percentage of sales outside of North America to
    increase in the future. Over the past few years, the economies
    of many of the foreign countries in which we do business have
    had slower growth than the U.S. economy. The European Union
    currently accounts for the majority of our foreign sales and
    income. Our most significant European market is Germany, where
    the capital goods market has been very slow. We cannot predict
    how changing European market conditions will impact our
    financial results.


 


    We are also exposed to the risk of fluctuation of foreign
    currency exchange rates which may affect our financial results.
    As of December 31, 2005, we held immaterial positions in
    foreign exchange-forward contracts.


 



    We are
    exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from
    operating a multinational business.


 


    Sales outside of North America, including export sales from
    North American businesses, accounted for approximately 22% of
    our net sales in 2005. Further, certain of our businesses obtain
    raw materials and finished goods from foreign suppliers.
    Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic
    and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous
    countries. These risks include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting
    receivables through foreign legal systems;



 


     
        • 

    
    trade protection measures and import or export licensing
    requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the
    U.S. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign
    earnings;



 


     
        • 

    
    the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other
    restrictions;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and
    the application of foreign labor regulations;



 


     
        • 

    
    the protection of intellectual property in foreign countries may
    be more difficult;



 


     
        • 

    
    required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and
    regulations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in general economic and political conditions in
    countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets.





 


    Our business success depends in part on our ability to
    anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We
    cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a
    material adverse effect on our international operations or on
    our business as a whole.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    We are
    exposed to potential environmental liabilities and
    litigation.


 


    Compliance with environmental regulations could require us to
    discharge environmental liabilities, increase the cost of
    manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our
    business, financial condition and results of operations. We are
    subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and
    regulations governing public and worker health and safety and
    the indoor and outdoor environment. Any violations of these laws
    by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that
    could harm our operating results and cause our business to
    suffer. We are also required to comply with various
    environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are
    subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of
    our businesses, and we could suffer if we are unable to renew
    existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may
    require.


 


    We have been named as defendants, targets, or potentially
    responsible parties (PRPs) in a number of environmental
    clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. We
    have disposed of a number of businesses over the last ten years
    and, in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and
    potential liability for certain environmental obligations. We
    have received claims for indemnification from certain
    purchasers. We may be named as a PRP at other sites in the
    future for existing business units, as well as both divested and
    acquired businesses.


 


    We cannot ensure that environmental requirements will not change
    or become more stringent over time or that our eventual
    environmental
    clean-up
    costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current
    reserves.


 



    Provisions
    of our Restated Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and Minnesota
    law could deter takeover attempts.


 


    Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under
    Minnesota law and in our shareholder rights plan could prevent
    or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor.


 


    Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws include
    provisions relating to the election, appointment and removal of
    directors, as well as shareholder notice and shareholder voting
    requirements which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a
    merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control.
    In addition, our common share purchase rights could cause
    substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to
    acquire us, which could deter some acquirers from making
    takeover proposals or tender offers. Also, the Minnesota
    Business Corporations Act contains control share acquisition and
    business combination provisions which could delay, prevent or
    make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or
    other change of control. Our shareholders might view any such a
    transaction as being in their best interests since the
    transaction could result in a higher stock price than the
    current market price for our common stock.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B