ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection
with the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are
risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. Unless otherwise indicated or the
context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to Pinnacle West and its
subsidiaries, including APS.


REGULATORY RISKS



Our financial condition depends upon APS’ ability to recover costs in a timely manner from
customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy.


APS is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory
agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its
ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. The ACC regulates APS’
retail electric rates and the FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission
services. While approved electric rates are intended to permit APS to recover its costs of service
and earn a reasonable rate of return, the profitability of APS is affected by the rates it may
charge. Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the
satisfactory resolution of any APS retail rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come
before the ACC and the FERC. In connection with its recent rate case settlement agreement, APS
agreed not to request its next general retail rate increase to be effective prior to July 1, 2012.
The ACC must also approve APS’ issuance of securities and any transfer of APS property used to
provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain
transactions between us, APS and our respective affiliates. Decisions made by the ACC and the FERC
could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.


APS’ ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon
compliance with federal, state or local statutes and regulations, and obtaining and maintaining
certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates.


APS must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and
orders of agencies that regulate APS’ business, including the FERC, the NRC, the EPA and state and
local governmental agencies. These agencies regulate many aspects of APS’ utility operations,
including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer
service and the rates that APS can charge retail and wholesale customers. Failure to comply can
subject APS to, among other things, fines and penalties. For example, under the Energy Policy Act
of 2005, the FERC can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for
failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. APS underwent its first mandatory
regularly-scheduled triennial audit for compliance with these standards in early 2010 and expects
to receive its results by mid-2010. In addition, APS is required to have numerous permits,
approvals and certificates from these agencies. APS believes the necessary permits, approvals and
certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that APS’ business is conducted in
accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. However, changes in regulations or the
imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of
operations. We are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from
pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies.

 

22




Table of Contents



The operation of APS’ nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and
potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures.


The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related
requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance,
the NRC has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased
inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon
the NRC’s assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. APS was
subject to this heightened scrutiny until March 2009, when it exited the NRC’s enhanced inspection
regime. The increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and
implementation of plans to achieve compliance with NRC requirements, may adversely affect APS’
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities
under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase APS’ cost of operations or impact its
business plans.


APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its
present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid
waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash and air
pollution control wastes. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating,
and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions
obligations. These laws and regulations generally require APS to obtain and comply with a wide
variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. If there is a delay or failure to
obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if APS fails to obtain, maintain or
comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to
additional expenses. In addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and
regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. Both public officials and
private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. APS cannot
predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise.


Environmental Clean Up. APS has been named as a PRP for a Superfund site in Phoenix, Arizona
and it could be named a PRP in the future for other environmental clean up at sites identified by a
regulatory body. APS cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future
expenditures related to environmental matters because of the
difficulty of estimating clean up
costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose
joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties.


Regional Haze. APS is currently awaiting final rulemaking from the EPA that could impose new
requirements on Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. APS is also awaiting final rulemaking from ADEQ
that could impose new requirements on Cholla. The EPA and ADEQ will require these plants to
install pollution control equipment that constitutes the best available retrofit technology to
lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. Depending upon the agencies’
final determinations of what constitutes BART for these plants, the financial impact of installing
the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of the plants or
the ability of individual participants to continue their participation
in these plants.

 

23




Table of Contents



Coal Ash. Recently Congress directed the EPA to propose new federal regulations governing the
disposal of CCBs, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other
things, fly ash and bottom ash. APS currently disposes of CCBs in ash ponds and dry storage
areas at Four Corners and Cholla, and also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a
constituent in concrete products. If the EPA regulates CCBs as a hazardous solid waste or phases
out APS’ ability to dispose of CCBs through the use of ash ponds, APS could incur significant costs
for CCB disposal and may be unable to continue its sale of fly ash for beneficial reuse.


New Source Review. The EPA has taken the position that many projects electric utilities have
performed are major modifications that trigger NSR requirements under the Clean Air Act. The
utilities generally have taken the position that these projects are routine maintenance and did not
result in emissions increases, and thus are not subject to NSR. APS received and responded to a
request from the EPA regarding projects and operations of Four Corners. If the EPA seeks to impose
NSR requirements at Four Corners or any other APS plant, either through a lawsuit or a Notice of
Violation, significant capital investments could be required to install new pollution control
technologies. The EPA could also seek civil penalties.


Mercury and other Hazardous Air Pollutants. The EPA is required to adopt maximum achievable
control technology emissions standards for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants by November
2011. Depending on the compliance requirements contained in the final rule, APS may need to make
significant capital investments to install additional pollution control equipment to meet these new
standards.


APS cannot be sure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new
regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it.
Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating
restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by APS are not fully recoverable from APS’
customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows.


APS faces physical and operational risks related to climate change, and potential financial risks
resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse
gas emissions.


Concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases
in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit
CO2, which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other greenhouse
gas emissions. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against companies that emit greenhouse gases,
including a lawsuit filed by the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina, Alaska
against us and several other utilities seeking damages related to climate change, which was
dismissed but has been appealed.


Physical and Operational Risks. Projections for the Southwest United States from climate
change models include an increase in the number of extreme hot days in the summer, less
precipitation in the form of snow and the earlier runoff of snowmelt, increased wildfire potential,
and the potential for water shortages. Assuming that the primary physical and operational risks to
APS from climate change are increased potential for drought or water shortage, and a mild to
moderate increase in ambient temperatures, APS believes it is taking the appropriate steps at this
time to respond to these risks. Weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations
are common occurrences in the Southwest’s desert area, and these are risk factors that APS
considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric
system. Large increases in ambient temperature due to climate change could require evaluation of
certain materials used within its system and represents a greater challenge.

 

24




Table of Contents



Financial Risks — Potential Legislation and Regulation. In the past several years, the United
States Congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions. The
House of Representatives approved a bill that would establish a greenhouse gas emission
cap-and-trade system, and the Senate is currently considering proposed legislation. There is
growing consensus that some form of regulation or legislation is likely to occur in the near future
at the federal level with respect to greenhouse gas emissions.


If the United States Congress, or individual states or groups of states in which APS operates,
ultimately pass legislation regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any resulting limitations
on generation facility CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions could result in the
creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes,
emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades and could have a material adverse impact on all
fossil fuel fired generation facilities (particularly coal-fired facilities, which constitute
approximately 28% of APS’ generation capacity). A cap-and-trade program may also result in
counterparty credit risk and financial liquidity risk since collateral is typically exchanged
between counterparties as a means of mitigating risk in the event of a counterparty default.


At the state level, the California legislature enacted legislation to address greenhouse gas
emissions. This legislation and other state-specific initiatives may affect APS’ business,
including sales into the impacted states or the ability of its out-of-state power plant
participants to continue their participation in certain coal-fired power
plants, including Four Corners following expiration of the current lease term in 2016.


In addition, the EPA recently determined that greenhouse gas emissions endanger public health
and welfare. This determination was made in response to a 2007 United States Supreme Court ruling
that greenhouse gases fit within the Clean Air Act’s broad definition of “air pollutant” and, as a
result, the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions of new motor vehicles under
the Clean Air Act. The recent endangerment finding could result in the EPA issuing new regulatory
requirements under the Clean Air Act, beyond those related to motor vehicle emissions, which could
impact APS’ power plants and result in substantial additional costs. Excessive costs to comply
with future legislation or regulations could force APS and other similarly-situated electric power
generators to retire or suspend operations at certain coal-fired facilities.


If APS cannot meet or maintain the level of renewable energy required under Arizona’s increasing
Renewable Energy Standards or the higher commitment levels established in the settlement agreement,
APS may be subject to penalties or fines for non-compliance.


The Renewable Energy Standard and Tariff (“RES”) requires APS to supply an increasing
percentage of renewable energy each year, so that the amount of retail electricity sales from
eligible renewable resources is at least 2.5% of total retail sales by 2010. This amount increases
annually to 15% by 2025. In its recent retail rate case settlement agreement, APS agreed to exceed
these standards and committed to an interim renewable energy target of 10% by year end 2015. A
portion of this total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of
distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers’
properties). The distributed energy requirement is 20% of the overall RES requirement of 2.5% in
2010 and increases to 30% of the applicable RES requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. If APS
fails to implement any of its annual ACC-approved renewable resource plans, it may be subject to
penalties imposed by the ACC, including APS’ inability to recover certain costs. Compliance with
the distributed resource requirement is contingent upon customer participation. The development of
any renewable generation
facilities resulting from the RES is subject to many other risks, including risks relating to
financing, permitting, technology, fuel supply, and the construction of sufficient transmission
capacity to support these facilities.

 

25




Table of Contents



Deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which
could have a significant adverse impact on APS’ business and its results of operations.


In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in
Arizona. Retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on APS due to an
impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of
capital. Although some very limited retail competition existed in APS’ service area in 1999 and
2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility
services to APS’ customers. As a result, APS cannot predict if, when, and the extent to which,
additional competitors may re-enter APS’ service territory.


Currently, there are two matters pending with the ACC that involve a business model where
customers pay solar vendors for the installation and operation of solar facilities based on the
amount of energy produced. The ACC must make a determination whether these entities would be
considered “public service corporations” under the Arizona Constitution, causing them to be
regulated by the ACC. Use of such products by customers within APS’ territory would result in some
level of competition.


As a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale
electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity
suppliers, non-utility generators, independent power producers, and wholesale power marketers and
brokers. This increased competition could affect APS’ load forecasts, plans for power supply and
wholesale energy sales and related revenues. As a result of the changing regulatory environment
and the relatively low barriers to entry, we expect wholesale competition to increase, which could
adversely affect our business.


OPERATIONAL RISKS



APS’ results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for
electricity.


Weather Conditions. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and
affect the price of energy commodities. Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business.
In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at
that time. As a result, APS’ overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal
basis. In addition, APS has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income,
when weather conditions are milder. As a result, unusually mild weather could diminish APS’
results of operations and harm its financial condition.


Higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and
an increased threat of forest fires. Forest fires could threaten APS’ communities and electric
transmission lines. Any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact APS’
results of operations.

 

26




Table of Contents



Effects of Energy Conservation Measures and Distributed Energy. The ACC has initiated a
rulemaking regarding energy efficiency, which includes a proposed 22% annual energy savings
requirement by 2020. If adopted, this will likely increase participation by APS customers in
energy efficiency and conservation programs and demand-side management efforts, which in turn would
impact the demand for electricity. The proposed rules also include a requirement for the ACC to
review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost
income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements.
The retail rate case settlement agreement establishes energy efficiency goals for APS that begin in
2010, subjecting APS to energy efficiency requirements in advance of the proposed rules described
above.


APS must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. A portion of APS’ total renewable
energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources
(generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers’ properties). The distributed
energy requirement is 20% of the overall RES requirement of 2.5% in 2010 and increases to 30% of
the applicable RES requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. Customer participation in distributed
energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some or all of their
own energy needs. Reduced demand due to these energy efficiency and distributed energy
requirements, unless offset through regulatory mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on
APS’ financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


The operation of power generation facilities involves risks that could result in unscheduled power
outages or reduced output, which could materially affect APS’ results of operations.


The operation of power generation facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of
breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of
output or efficiency. Unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to
mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of
APS’ business. If APS’ facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons,
it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses.


The lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on APS’
business and results of operations.


Assured supplies of water are important for APS’ generating plants. Water in the southwestern
United States is limited and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to
access and use such limited supply of water. Both groundwater and surface water in areas important
to APS’ generating plants have been the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. In
addition, the Four Corners region, in which Four Corners is located, has been experiencing drought
conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate moisture is not received in
the watershed that supplies the area. APS’ inability to access sufficient supplies of water could
have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.


The ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on Indian lands could
result in uncertainty related to continued easements and rights-of-way, which could have a
significant impact on our business.


Certain APS power plants, including Four Corners, and portions of the transmission lines that
carry power from these plants are located on Indian lands pursuant to easements or other
rights-of-way
that are effective for specified periods. APS is currently unable to predict the outcome of
discussions with the appropriate Indian tribes with respect to future renewal of these easements
and rights-of-way.

 

27




Table of Contents



There are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as
environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the
risk of terrorist attack.


APS has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of owners, Palo Verde,
which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the United States. Palo Verde is
subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to obtain adequate
supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain
adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these
facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and
unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. APS maintains nuclear decommissioning
trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these
risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. In
addition, APS may be required under federal law to pay up to $103 million (but not more than $15
million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at Palo
Verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the United States. Although we have no reason to
anticipate a serious nuclear incident at Palo Verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially
and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A major incident at a
nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or
licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.


The operation of Palo Verde requires licenses that need to be periodically renewed and/or
extended. In December 2008, APS applied for renewed operating licenses for all three Palo Verde
units for 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. APS does not anticipate any
problems renewing these licenses. However, as a result of potential terrorist threats and
increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing
or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict.


The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial
losses that negatively impact our results of operations.


APS’ operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. APS is exposed to
the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas
and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. We have established procedures to manage
risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives,
including exchange-traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps.
As part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge
purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. The changes in market value of such contracts have a
high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. To the extent that commodity markets
are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in
greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that
negatively impact our results of operations.


Congress is considering legislation to impose restrictions on the use of over-the-counter
derivatives, including energy derivatives, which could subject APS to governmental regulation
relating to these hedging transactions. If such legislation becomes law, APS could potentially
face higher costs to hedge its risks, fewer potential counterparties
still active in the newly-regulated marketplace and increased liquidity requirements.

 

28




Table of Contents



We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. We
use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties.
Despite the fact that the majority of trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the
rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default,
which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period.


Changes in technology may adversely affect APS’ business.



Research and development activities are ongoing to improve alternative technologies to produce
power, including fuel cells, micro turbines, clean coal and coal gasification, photovoltaic (solar)
cells and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas
turbines. Advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production,
making APS’ generating facilities less competitive. In addition, advances in technology could
reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect APS’ business.


APS is pursuing and implementing advanced technologies, including smart grid transmission and
distribution systems and advanced meters for use in customers’ homes and businesses. Many of the
products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been
widely used or tested, and their use on large-scale systems is not as advanced and established as
APS’ existing technologies and equipment. Uncertainties and unknowns related to these and other
advancements in technology and equipment could adversely affect APS’ business if national standards
develop that do not embrace the current technologies or if the technologies and equipment fail to
perform as expected.


FINANCIAL RISKS



Financial market disruptions may increase our financing costs or limit our access to the credit
markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial
strategy.


We rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and the bank
markets as a significant source of liquidity and for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash
flow from our operations. We believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial
markets. However, certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely
affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include:





     
    •
     
    continuation of the current economic downturn;








     
    •
     
    terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of unrelated
energy companies;








     
    •
     
    mergers among financial institutions and the overall health of the banking industry;
or








     
    •
     
    the overall health of the utility industry.





In addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be
satisfied for a variety of reasons, including unexpected periods of financial distress affecting
our lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources.

 

29




Table of Contents



Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our
interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. Additionally,
an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by:





     
    •
     
    increasing the cost of future debt financing;








     
    •
     
    reducing our credit ratings;








     
    •
     
    increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and








     
    •
     
    requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to
payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future
business opportunities or other purposes.





A reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial
condition and results of operations.


Our current ratings are set forth in “Pinnacle West Consolidated — Liquidity and Capital
Resources — Credit Ratings” in Item 7. We cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will
remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn
entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any
downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle West’s and APS’
securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our
financial results. We would be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and
our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. In addition, borrowing costs
under certain of our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. A downgrade would
also require us to provide substantial additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash
or other collateral to various counterparties. If our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it
could completely eliminate any possible future access to the commercial paper market. We note that
the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and
that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.


Market performance, changing interest rates and other economic factors could decrease the value of
our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds and increase our related
obligations, resulting in significant additional funding that could negatively impact our business.


Disruptions in the capital markets may adversely affect the values of fixed income and equity
investments held in our employee benefit plan trusts and nuclear decommissioning trusts. We have
significant obligations in these areas and hold substantial assets in these trusts. A decline in
the market value of these trusts may increase our funding requirements. Additionally, the pension
plan and other postretirement benefit liabilities are impacted by the discount rate, which is the
interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.
Declining interest rates impact the discount rate, and may result in increases in pension and other
postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other
comprehensive income. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or
changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the
obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. A significant portion
of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning
costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. Our inability to fully recover these costs in
a timely manner or any increased funding obligations could negatively impact our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

 

30




Table of Contents



We may be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). The ultimate
adoption of such standards could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of
operations.


IFRS is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the International
Accounting Standards Board that is being considered by the SEC to replace accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for use in preparation of financial
statements. If the SEC requires mandatory adoption of IFRS, we may lose our ability to use
regulatory accounting treatment, and would follow IFRS rather than GAAP for the preparation of our
financial statements beginning in 2014. The implementation and adoption of these new standards and
the inability to use regulatory accounting could negatively impact our business, financial
condition or results of operations.


Our cash flow largely depends on the performance of our subsidiaries.



We conduct our operations primarily through subsidiaries. Substantially all of our
consolidated assets are held by such subsidiaries. Accordingly, our cash flow is dependent upon
the earnings and cash flows of these subsidiaries and their distributions to us. The subsidiaries
are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make distributions to us.


The debt agreements of some of our subsidiaries may restrict their ability to pay dividends,
make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. An ACC financing order requires APS to
maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow APS to pay common dividends if
the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. The common equity ratio, as
defined in the ACC order, is common equity divided by the sum of common equity and long-term debt,
including current maturities of long-term debt.


Our ability to meet our debt service obligations could be adversely affected because our debt
securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of our
subsidiaries.


Because we are structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other
liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt
securities. None of the indentures under which we or our subsidiaries may issue debt securities
limits our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt in the future. The
assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service
their own debt and other obligations. Our ability to have the benefit of their assets and cash
flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries,
would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their
creditors have been satisfied.


The market price of our common stock may be volatile.



The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response
to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control:





     
    •
     
    variations in our quarterly operating results;








     
    •
     
    operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts
and investors;




 

31




Table of Contents












     
    •
     
    changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial
estimates by securities analysts and investors;








     
    •
     
    developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the
energy distribution and energy generation industries;








     
    •
     
    announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint
marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;








     
    •
     
    announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us;








     
    •
     
    favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments;








     
    •
     
    our dividend policy;








     
    •
     
    future sales by the Company of equity or equity-linked securities; and








     
    •
     
    general domestic and international economic conditions.





In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been
unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations
may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.


Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Arizona law make it difficult
for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts.


These provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control
premium, include the following:





     
    •
     
    restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of “business combination”
transactions with an “interested shareholder” (generally, any person who owns 10% or
more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any
affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are
met;








     
    •
     
    anti-greenmail provisions of Arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from
purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our
outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied;








     
    •
     
    the ability of the Board of Directors to increase the size of the Board and fill
vacancies on the Board, whether resulting from such increase, or from death,
resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and








     
    •
     
    the ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional shares of common stock and
 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred
stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares
without shareholder approval.





While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us
to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable the Board to hinder or frustrate a
transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best
interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent
directors.

 

32




Table of Contents



SunCor’s
business and financial results would be adversely affected if it is unable to extend,
modify or renew its credit facilities or repay its debt through sales of its remaining assets.

At December 31, 2009,
SunCor had borrowings of approximately $57 million under its principal loan facility (the "Secured Revolver").
The Secured Revolver matured on January 30, 2010 and SunCor and the agent bank for the Secured Revolver are
discussing an extension of the maturity date to allow time for SunCor to continue discussions
concerning the potential sale of additional properties.
In addition to the Secured Revolver, at December 31, 2009, SunCor had approximately $43 million of
outstanding debt under other credit facilities ($9 million of which has matured since December 31, 2009 and remains outstanding).


If SunCor is unable to obtain an extension or renewal of the
Secured Revolver or its other matured debt, or if it is unable to comply with the mandatory repayment and other provisions of any new or modified
credit agreements, SunCor could be required to immediately repay its outstanding indebtedness under all of its credit facilities as a result of cross-default provisions.
Such an immediate repayment obligation would have a material adverse impact on SunCor's business and financial position and impair its ongoing viability.


SunCor intends to apply the proceeds of its planned asset sales to the repayment of its
outstanding debt.  If it is unable to locate suitable buyers and close certain asset sales or obtain sufficient proceeds from these sales to maintain or pay off its
existing debt, it may be unable to satisfy obligations under its credit facilities, resulting in the immediate repayment obligations described above.


SunCor cannot predict the outcome of
negotiations with its lenders or its ability to sell assets for sufficient proceeds to repay its outstanding debt.
SunCor's ability to generate sufficient cash from operations while it pursues lender negotiations and further asset sales is uncertain.


The Company has not guaranteed any
SunCor indebtedness.  As a result, we do not believe that SunCor's inability to meet its financial covenants
under the Secured Revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities would have a material adverse impact on
Pinnacle West's cash flows or liquidity.  Any resulting SunCor losses would be reflected in Pinnacle West's consolidated financial
statements.  If SunCor were required to seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws, Pinnacle West could be exposed to the uncertainties
and complexities inherent for parent companies in such proceedings.


During 2008 and 2009 the real estate market weakened
significantly resulting in lower land and home sales and depressed real estate prices.  As a result, in 2008 and 2009 SunCor
recognized certain impairment charges.  SunCor may be required to record additional impairments.






ITEM 1B