ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



     In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection
with the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are
risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. Unless otherwise indicated or the
context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to Pinnacle West and its
subsidiaries, including APS.


     APS is subject to comprehensive government regulation by several federal, state and local
regulatory agencies that could have a material adverse impact on its business, liquidity and
results of operations.


     APS is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory
agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity and results of operations. The ACC
regulates APS’ retail electric rates and APS’ issuance of securities. The ACC must also approve
any transfer of APS’ property used to provide retail electric service and approve or receive prior
notification of certain transactions between us, APS and our respective affiliates. While approved
electric rates are intended to permit APS to recover its costs of service and earn a reasonable
rate of return, the profitability of APS is affected by the rates it may charge. Consequently, our
financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of
APS’ retail rate proceedings and ancillary matters which are before or which may come before the
ACC. Decisions made by the ACC could have a material adverse impact on
our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.


     APS is required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that
regulate APS’ business. The FERC, the NRC, the EPA, and the ACC regulate many aspects of our
utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and, as noted
in the preceding paragraph, the rates that APS can charge customers. We believe the necessary
permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for APS’ existing operations and that APS’
business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. However,
changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on
our results of operations. We are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating
results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies.


24




Table of Contents



     The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related
requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance,
the NRC has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased
inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon
the NRC’s assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. In early
2007, the NRC placed Palo Verde Unit 3 in the “multiple/repetitive degraded cornerstone” column of
the NRC’s Action Matrix (“Column 4”), which has resulted in an enhanced NRC inspection regime,
including on-site in-depth inspections of Palo Verde equipment and operations. Although only Palo
Verde Unit 3 is in NRC’s Column 4, in order to adequately assess the need for improvements, APS
management has been conducting site-wide assessments of equipment and operations. APS continues to
cooperate fully with the NRC throughout this process. The enhanced NRC inspection regime and APS’
ongoing commitment to the conservatively safe operation of Palo Verde could result in NRC action or
an APS decision to shut down one or more units in the event of noncompliance with operating
requirements or in light of other operational considerations.


     APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase its cost of
operations, impact its business plans, or expose it to environmental liabilities.


     APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its
present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid
waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash and air
pollution control wastes. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating,
and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions
obligations. These laws and regulations generally require APS to obtain and comply with a wide
variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. If there is a delay
in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval, or if APS fails to obtain, maintain or
comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to
additional expenses. In addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and
regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. Both public officials and
private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. We cannot
predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise.


     In addition, we may be a responsible party for environmental clean up at sites identified by a
regulatory body. We cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures
related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. There is
also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several
liability on all potentially responsible parties.


     We cannot be sure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new
regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us.
Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating
restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by APS are not fully recoverable from APS’
customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.



25






Table of Contents



     Concern over climate change could result in significant legislative and regulatory efforts to
limit greenhouse gas emissions or related litigation, which may increase APS’ cost of operations.


     Concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases
in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit
CO2, which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other greenhouse
gas emissions. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against companies that emit greenhouse
gases, including a lawsuit filed against us and several other utilities, seeking damages related
to climate change. In the past several years, the United States Congress has considered bills that
would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions, but such bills have not received sufficient
Congressional approval to date to become law; however, there is growing consensus that some form of
regulation or legislation is likely to occur in the near future at the federal level with respect
to greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, in 2007, the United States Supreme Court ruled that
greenhouse gases fit within the Clean Air Act’s broad definition of “air pollutant” and, as a
result, the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions of new motor vehicles under
the Clean Air Act. If the United States Congress, or individual states or groups of states in
which we operate, ultimately pass legislation regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any
resulting limitations on generation facility CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions
could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in
the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades and could have a material
adverse impact on all fossil fuel fired generation facilities
(particularly coal fired facilities,
which constitute approximately 28% of our generation capacity). If the EPA determines that
greenhouse gas emissions can reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, this
determination may impact other Clean Air Act Programs and could potentially result in new
regulatory requirements for our power plants, which could also result in substantial additional
costs. Excessive costs to comply with future legislation or regulations could force APS and other
similarly-situated electric power generators to close some coal-fired facilities.


     There are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as
environmental, health, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack.


     Through APS, we have an ownership interest in and operate, on behalf of a group of owners,
Palo Verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the United States. Palo
Verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of
spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential
liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities
against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems.
APS maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its
financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the
amount of insurance coverage.


     The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related
requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance,
the NRC has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased
inspection regime, which could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending
upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. See the first
risk factor above for a discussion of the enhanced NRC inspection regime currently in effect at
Palo Verde and the related operational and regulatory implications. In addition, although we have
no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at Palo Verde, if an incident did occur, it
could materially and


26




Table of Contents





adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A major incident at a
nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or
licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.


     The operation of Palo Verde requires licenses that need to be periodically renewed and/or
extended. In December 2008, we applied for renewed operating licenses for all three Palo Verde
units for 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. We do not anticipate any
problems renewing these licenses. However, as a result of potential terrorist threats and
increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing
or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict.


     The operation of power generation facilities involves risks that could result in unscheduled
power outages or reduced output, which could materially affect our results of operations.


     The operation of power generation facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of
breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of
output or efficiency. Unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to
mechanical failures or other complications occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our
business. If APS’ facilities operate below expectations, we may lose revenue or incur additional
expenses, including increased purchased power expenses.


     The ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on Indian lands
could result in uncertainty related to continued easements and rights-of-way, which could have a
significant impact on our business.


     Certain portions of the transmission lines that carry power from several of our power plants
are located on Indian lands pursuant to easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for
specified periods. We are currently unable to predict the outcome of discussions with the
appropriate Indian tribes with respect to future renewal of these easements and rights-of-way.


     Deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition,
which could have a significant adverse impact on our business and our results of operations.


     In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in
Arizona. Retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on APS due to an
impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of
capital. Although some very limited retail competition existed in APS’ service area in 1999 and
2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility
services to APS’ customers. As a result, we cannot predict when, and the extent to which,
additional competitors will re-enter APS’ service territory.


     As a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale
electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity
suppliers, non-utility generators, independent power producers, and wholesale power marketers and
brokers. This increased competition could affect APS’ load forecasts, plans for power supply and
wholesale energy sales and related revenues. As a result of the changing regulatory environment
and


27




Table of Contents





the relatively low barriers to entry, we expect wholesale competition to increase, which could
adversely affect our business.


     Changes in technology may adversely affect our business.


     Research and development activities are ongoing to improve alternative technologies to produce
power, including fuel cells, micro turbines, clean coal and coal gasification, photovoltaic (solar)
cells and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas
turbines. Advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production,
making APS’ generating facilities less competitive. In addition, advances in technology could
reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect APS’ business.


     Our results of operations can be adversely affected by weather conditions.


     Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of
energy commodities. Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. In Arizona, demand
for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. As a
result, our overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition,
APS has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions
are milder. As a result, unusually mild weather could diminish our results of operations and harm
our financial condition.


     Higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and
an increased threat of forest fires. Forest fires could threaten our communities and electric
transmission lines. Any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact our
results of operations.


     Our results of operations can be adversely affected by current economic conditions.


     Customer growth in APS’ service territory was 1.4% during 2008. Customer growth averaged 3% a
year for the three years 2006 through 2008. We currently expect customer growth to decline,
averaging about 1% per year for 2009 through 2011 due to factors reflecting the economic conditions
both nationally and in Arizona. We currently expect our retail sales growth in 2009 to be below
average because of potential effects on customer usage from the economic conditions mentioned above
and retail rate increases, which would adversely affect our results of operations.


     The lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our
business and results of operations.


     Assured supplies of water are important for APS’ generating plants. Water in the southwestern
United States is limited and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to
access and use such limited supply of water. Both groundwater and surface water in areas important
to APS’ generating plants have been the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. In
addition, the Four Corners region, in which Four Corners is located, has been experiencing drought
conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate moisture is not received in
the watershed that supplies the area. Our inability to access sufficient supplies of water could
have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.


     Our cash flow largely depends on the performance of our subsidiaries.


28




Table of Contents



     We conduct our operations primarily through subsidiaries. Substantially all of our
consolidated assets are held by such subsidiaries. Accordingly, our cash flow is dependent upon
the earnings and cash flows of these subsidiaries and their distributions to us. The subsidiaries
are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make distributions to us.


     The debt agreements of some of our subsidiaries may restrict their ability to pay dividends,
make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. An ACC financing order requires APS to
maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow APS to pay common dividends if
the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. The common equity ratio, as
defined in the ACC order, is common equity divided by the sum of common equity and long-term debt,
including current maturities of long-term debt.


     Our ability to meet our debt service obligations could be adversely affected because our debt
securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of our
subsidiaries.


     Because we are structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other
liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt
securities. None of the indentures under which we or our subsidiaries may issue debt securities
limits our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt in the future. The
assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service
their own debt and other obligations. Our ability to have the benefit of their assets and cash
flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries,
would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their
creditors have been satisfied.


     Our inability to reduce capital expenditures could materially and adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operation.


     Unexpected developments that may prevent us from reducing capital expenditures and other costs
while maintaining reliability and customer service levels could have a material adverse impact on
our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity.


     Financial market disruptions may increase our financing costs or limit our access to the
credit markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial
strategy.


     We rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and the bank
markets as a significant source of liquidity and for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash
flow from our operations. We believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial
markets. However, certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely
affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include:






     
    •
     
    continuation of the current economic downturn;



     

     
    •
     
    the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company;



     

     
    •
     
    increased market prices for electricity and gas;



     

     
    •
     
    terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of unrelated
energy companies;




29




Table of Contents















     
    •
     
    changes in technology;



     

     
    •
     
    mergers among financial institutions and the overall health of the banking industry;
or



     

     
    •
     
    the overall health of the utility or real estate industry.





     In addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be
satisfied for a variety of reasons, including unexpected periods of financial distress, which could
materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources.


     Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our
interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. Additionally,
an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by:






     
    •
     
    increasing the cost of future debt financing;



     

     
    •
     
    increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to
payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future
business opportunities or other purposes; and



     

     
    •
     
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have
less debt.





     Recent sub-prime mortgage issues, the collapse of the credit markets, the weak housing market
and the overall weakening of the economy have adversely affected the financial markets, generally
resulting in increased interest rates for corporate debt, reduced access to the capital markets,
and actual or potential downgrades of bond insurers and banks, among other negative matters. In
general, the Company and APS have been unable to access the commercial paper markets since
September 2008. As a result, existing bank lines have been used as a source of liquidity on which
we depend. In addition, the interest rates on certain issues of APS’ pollution control bonds that
are periodically reset through auction processes have recently increased. These bonds are
supported by bond insurance policies provided by Ambac Assurance Corporation (“Ambac”), and the
interest rates on those bonds are directly affected by the rating of the bond insurer. We do not
expect, however, that any such increase will have a material adverse impact on our financial
position, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity.


     The 2007 and 2008 financial results of SunCor, our real estate subsidiary, reflect the weak
real estate market and current economic conditions. SunCor’s principal loan facility is secured primarily by an interest in land, commercial properties,
 land contracts and homes under construction (the “Secured Revolver”).  At December 31, 2008,
SunCor had borrowings of approximately $120 million under this facility.  The Secured Revolver
matures on January 30, 2010.  In addition to the Secured Revolver, at December 31, 2008,
SunCor had approximately $68 million of outstanding debt under other credit facilities that
mature at various dates and also contain certain loan covenants.  The majority of this
indebtedness is due in 2009, and SunCor is in the process of renegotiating these facilities.


      If SunCor is unable to  meet its financial covenants under the Secured Revolver or its other
outstanding credit facilities, SunCor could be required to immediately repay its outstanding
indebtedness under all of its credit facilities as a result of cross-default provisions.  Such a debt
acceleration would have a material adverse impact on SunCor’s business and its financial
position.  The Company has not guaranteed any SunCor indebtedness.  As a result, the Company
does not believe that SunCor’s inability to meet its financial covenants under the Secured
Revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities would have a material adverse impact on
Pinnacle West’s cash flows or liquidity, although any resulting SunCor losses would be reflected
in Pinnacle West’s consolidated financial statements.


30




Table of Contents



     A reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations.


     We cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period
of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its
judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely
affect the market price of Pinnacle West’s and APS’ securities, limit our access to capital and
increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. We would be required to
pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding
sources could decrease. In addition, borrowing costs under certain of our existing credit
facilities depend on our credit ratings. A downgrade would also require us to provide substantial
additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various
counterparties. If our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could completely eliminate any
possible future access to the commercial paper market. We note that the ratings from rating
agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be
evaluated independently of any other rating.


     The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial
losses that negatively impact our results of operations.


     Our operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices and, subject to
specified risk parameters, engaging in marketing and trading activities intended to profit from
market price movements. We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and
transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal, to the extent that
unhedged positions exist. We have established procedures to manage risks associated with these
market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange-traded futures
and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. As part of our overall risk
management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of
electricity and fuels. The changes in market value of such
contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. To the extent that
commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which
could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time.


     We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. We
use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties.
Despite the fact that the majority of trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the
rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default,
which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period.


     Changing interest rates and market conditions could result in financial losses that negatively
impact our results of operations.


     Changing interest rates affect interest paid on variable-rate debt and interest earned on
variable-rate securities in our pension plan, other postretirement benefit plan and nuclear
decommissioning trust funds. Our policy is to manage interest rates through the use of a
combination of fixed-rate and floating-rate debt. The pension plan and other postretirement
benefit liabilities are also impacted by the discount rate, which is the interest rate used to
discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. Declining interest rates
impact the discount rate, and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit
costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. The
pension plan, other postretirement benefit and


31




Table of Contents





nuclear decommissioning trust funds also have risks associated with changing market values of
fixed income and equity investments. A significant portion of the pension costs and other
postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in
regulated electricity prices.


     The market price of our common stock may be volatile.


     The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response
to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control:






     
    •
     
    variations in our quarterly operating results;



     

     
    •
     
    operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts
and investors;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial
estimates by securities analysts and investors;



     

     
    •
     
    developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the
energy distribution and energy generation industries;



     

     
    •
     
    announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint
marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;



     

     
    •
     
    announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us;



     

     
    •
     
    favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments;



     

     
    •
     
    our dividend policy;



     

     
    •
     
    future sales by the Company of equity or equity-linked securities; and



     

     
    •
     
    general domestic and international economic conditions.





     In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been
unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations
may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.


     Our stock price could be affected because a substantial number of shares of our common stock
could be available for sale in the future.


     Sales in the public market of a substantial number of shares of common stock could depress the
market price of the common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of
additional equity securities. Because of the number of shares of our common stock that we are
authorized to issue under our articles of incorporation, a substantial number of shares of our
common stock could be available for future sale.


32




Table of Contents



     We may enter into credit and other agreements from time to time that restrict our ability to
pay dividends.


     Payment of dividends on our common stock may be restricted by credit and other agreements
entered into by us from time to time. There are currently no material restrictions on our ability
to pay dividends under any such agreement.


     Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Arizona law make it
difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover
attempts.


     These provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control
premium, include the following:






     
    •
     
    restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of “business combination”
transactions with an “interested shareholder” (generally, any person who owns 10% or
more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any
affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are
met;



     

     
    •
     
    anti-greenmail provisions of Arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from
purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our
outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied;



     

     
    •
     
    a requirement that shareholder action be taken only at an annual or special meeting
or by unanimous written consent, and bylaws that require that only a majority of our
Board of Directors, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, or our President may call a
special meeting of shareholders;



     

     
    •
     
    advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our Board of Directors or
presenting matters at shareholder meetings;



     

     
    •
     
    shareholders may only remove a director with or without cause by a majority vote at
a special meeting of shareholders;



     

     
    •
     
    the ability of the Board of Directors to increase the size of the Board and fill
vacancies on the Board, whether resulting from such increase, or from death,
resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and



     

     
    •
     
    the ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional shares of common stock and
shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred
stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares
without shareholder approval.





     In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of
discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals, including takeover proposals that could result in a
premium over the market price of our common stock. The shareholder rights plan will expire on
March 26, 2009.


     While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us
to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable the Board to hinder or


33




Table of Contents





frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in
their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace
incumbent directors.


     SunCor’s business and financial performance could continue to be adversely affected by a
variety of factors affecting the real estate market.


     SunCor’s business and financial performance could continue to be adversely affected by a
variety of factors affecting the real estate market, including:






     
    •
     
    downward changes in general economic, real estate construction or other business
conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    the current economic down cycle for the homebuilding industry;



     

     
    •
     
    the increase in foreclosures;



     

     
    •
     
    reductions in mortgage availability, future increases in interest rates or increases
in the effective costs of owning a home, which could prevent potential customers from
buying homes in SunCor’s developments;



     

     
    •
     
    future increases in interest rates which could limit future sales of commercial
property and land;



     

     
    •
     
    competition for homebuyers or commercial customers or partners, which could reduce
SunCor’s profitability;



     

     
    •
     
    supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and
building materials, which could increase costs and delay deliveries; and



     

     
    •
     
    government regulations, which could increase the cost and limit the availability of
SunCor’s development, homebuilding and commercial projects.





     As noted above (see the Risk Factor relating to “financial market disruptions”), at
December 31, 2008, SunCor had borrowings of approximately $120 million under its principal
loan facility, the Secured Revolver.  The Secured Revolver matures on January 30, 2010.  In
addition to the Secured Revolver, at December 31, 2008, SunCor had approximately $68
million of outstanding debt under other credit facilities that mature at various dates and also
contain certain loan covenants.  The majority of this indebtedness is due in 2009, and SunCor
is in the process of renegotiating these facilities.



     If SunCor is unable to  meet its financial covenants under the Secured Revolver or its other
outstanding credit facilities, SunCor could be required to immediately repay its outstanding
indebtedness under all of its credit facilities as a result of cross-default provisions.  Such a debt
acceleration would have a material adverse impact on SunCor’s business and its financial
position.  The Company has not guaranteed any SunCor indebtedness.  As a result, the Company
does not believe that SunCor’s inability to meet its financial covenants under the Secured
Revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities would have a material adverse impact on
Pinnacle West’s cash flows or liquidity, although any resulting SunCor losses would be reflected
in Pinnacle West’s consolidated financial statements.



     During 2008 the real estate market weakened significantly resulting in lower land and home
sales and depressed real estate prices. As a result, in 2008 we recognized certain impairment
charges. If conditions in the  broader economy or the real estate markets
worsen, or as a result of a change in SunCor’s strategy, we may
be required to record additional impairements.


34




Table of Contents






ITEM 1B