ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the
description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and
uncertainties that could affect our financial results. Unless otherwise indicated or the context
otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to Pinnacle West and its
subsidiaries, including APS.


REGULATORY RISKS



Our financial condition depends upon APS’s ability to recover costs in a timely manner from
customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy.



APS is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory
agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its
ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. The ACC regulates APS’s
retail electric rates and the FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission
services. The profitability of APS is affected by the rates it may charge. Consequently, our
financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any
APS retail rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the ACC and the FERC.
Arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the ACC to reopen prior decisions and
modify final orders under certain circumstances. The ACC must also approve APS’s issuance of
securities and any transfer of APS property used to provide retail electric service, and must
approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, APS and our respective
affiliates. Decisions made by the ACC and the FERC could have a material adverse impact on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


APS’s ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon
compliance with federal, state or local statutes and regulations, and obtaining and maintaining
certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates.



APS must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and
orders of agencies that regulate APS’s business, including the FERC, the NRC, the EPA and state and
local governmental agencies. These agencies regulate many aspects of APS’s utility operations,
including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer
service and the rates that APS can charge retail and wholesale customers. Failure to comply can
subject APS to, among other things, fines and penalties. For example, under the Energy Policy Act
of 2005, the FERC can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for
failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. In addition, APS is required to
have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. APS believes the necessary
permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that APS’s
business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. However,
changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an
adverse impact on our results of operations. We are also unable to predict the impact on our
business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these
agencies.


The operation of APS’s nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and
potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures.



The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related
requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance,
the NRC has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased
inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon
the NRC’s assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. The increased
costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to
achieve compliance with NRC requirements may adversely affect APS’s financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.


APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities
under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase APS’s cost of operations or impact its
business plans.



APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its
present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid
waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash and air
pollution control wastes. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating,
and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions
obligations. These laws and regulations generally require APS to obtain and comply with a wide
variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. If there is a delay or failure to
obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if APS fails to obtain, maintain or
comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to
additional expenses. In addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and
regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. Both public officials and
private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. APS cannot
predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise.

 

27




Table of Contents



Environmental Clean Up. APS has been named as a PRP for a Superfund site in Phoenix, Arizona
and it could be named a PRP in the future for other environmental clean up at sites identified by a
regulatory body. APS cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future
expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up
costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose
joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties.


Regional Haze. APS is currently awaiting a final rulemaking from the EPA that could impose
new requirements on Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. APS is also awaiting a final rulemaking
from ADEQ that could impose new requirements on Cholla. The EPA and ADEQ will require these plants
to install pollution control equipment that constitutes the best available retrofit technology to
lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. Depending upon the agencies’
final determinations of what constitutes BART for these plants, the financial impact of installing
the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of the plants or
the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants.


Coal Ash. The EPA released proposed regulations governing the disposal of CCRs, which are
generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash.
The EPA proposed regulating CCRs as either non-hazardous or hazardous waste. APS currently
disposes of CCRs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Four Corners and Cholla, and also sells a
portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete products. If the EPA
regulates CCRs as a hazardous solid waste or phases out APS’s ability to dispose of CCRs through
the use of ash ponds, APS could incur significant costs for CCR disposal and may be unable to
continue its sale of fly ash for beneficial reuse.


New Source Review. The EPA has taken the position that many projects electric utilities have
performed are major modifications that trigger New Source Review requirements under the Clean Air
Act. The utilities generally have taken the position that these projects are routine maintenance
and did not result in emissions increases, and thus are not subject to New Source Review. In 2009,
APS received and responded to a request from the EPA regarding projects and operations of Four
Corners. A civilian organization notified the Four Corners participants that it intends to file a
citizen suit against the participants for alleged violations of New Source Review and the NSPS
program of the Clean Air Act. If the EPA seeks to impose New Source Review requirements at Four
Corners or any other APS plant, or if the citizen suit is filed and the citizens’ group prevails,
significant capital investments could be required to install new pollution control technologies.
The EPA could also seek civil penalties.


Mercury and other Hazardous Air Pollutants. The EPA is required to adopt maximum achievable
control technology emissions standards for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants by November
2011. Compliance with the new standards will be required three years after the EPA issues its
final rule. Depending on the compliance requirements contained in the final rule, APS may need to
make significant capital investments to install additional pollution control equipment to meet
these new standards.


APS cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new
regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it.
Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating
restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by APS are not fully recoverable from APS’s
customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows.

 

28




Table of Contents



APS faces physical and operational risks related to climate change, and potential financial risks
resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse
gas emissions.



Concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases
in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit
CO2, which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other greenhouse
gas emissions. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against companies that emit greenhouse gases,
including a lawsuit filed by the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina, Alaska
against us and several other utilities seeking damages related to climate change, which was
dismissed but has been appealed.


Financial Risks — Potential Legislation and Regulation. In the past several years, the
United States Congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions.
It is possible that some form of legislation may occur in the future at the federal level with
respect to greenhouse gas emissions.


If the United States Congress, or individual states or groups of states in which APS operates,
ultimately pass legislation regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any resulting limitations
on CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions could result in the creation of substantial
additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or
required equipment upgrades and could have a material adverse impact on all fossil fuel fired
generation facilities (particularly coal-fired facilities, which constitute approximately 28% of
APS’s generation capacity).


At the state level, the California legislature enacted legislation to address greenhouse gas
emissions and the California Air Resources Board approved regulations that will establish a
cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gas. This legislation, regulation and other state-specific
initiatives may affect APS’s business, including sales into the impacted states or the ability of
its out-of-state power plant participants to continue their participation in certain coal-fired
power plants, including Four Corners following expiration of the current lease term in 2016.


In addition, the EPA has determined that greenhouse gas emissions endanger public health and
welfare. This determination was made in response to a 2007 United States Supreme Court ruling that
greenhouse gases fit within the Clean Air Act’s broad definition of “air pollutant” and, as a
result, the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions of new motor vehicles under
the Clean Air Act. As a result of the endangerment finding, the EPA determined that the Clean Air
Act required new regulatory requirements for new and modified major greenhouse gas emitting
sources, including power plants. Several groups have filed lawsuits challenging the EPA’s
endangerment finding. APS cannot predict what rules or regulations may ultimately result from the
EPA’s endangerment finding, whether the parties challenging the endangerment finding will be
successful, or what impact other potential rules or regulations will have on APS’s operations.
Excessive costs to comply with future legislation or regulations could force APS and other
similarly-situated electric power generators to retire or suspend operations at certain coal-fired
facilities.


Physical and Operational Risks. Assuming that the primary physical and operational risks to
APS from climate change are increased potential for drought or water shortage, and a mild to
moderate increase in ambient temperatures, APS believes it is taking the appropriate steps to
respond to these risks. Weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are
common occurrences in the Southwest’s desert area, and these are risks that APS considers in the
normal course of business in
the engineering and construction of its electric system. Large increases in ambient
temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a
greater challenge.

 

29




Table of Contents



If APS cannot meet or maintain the level of renewable energy required under Arizona’s increasing
Renewable Energy Standards, APS may be subject to penalties or fines for non-compliance.



The RES requires APS to supply an increasing percentage of renewable energy each year, so that
the amount of retail electricity sales from eligible renewable resources is at least 3% of total
retail sales by 2011. This amount increases annually to 15% by 2025. In its 2009 retail rate case
settlement agreement, APS agreed to exceed these standards and committed to an interim renewable
energy target of 1,700 GWh of renewable resources to be in service by year end 2015 in addition to
its 2008 renewable resource commitments. Taken together, APS’s commitment is estimated to be 3,400
GWh, or approximately 10% of retail sales, by year end 2015. A portion of this total renewable
energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources
(generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers’ properties). The distributed
energy requirement is 25% of the overall RES requirement of 3% in 2011 and increases to 30% of the
applicable RES requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. If APS fails to implement any of its
annual ACC-approved renewable implementation plans, it may be subject to penalties imposed by the
ACC, including APS’s inability to recover certain costs. Compliance with the distributed resource
requirement is contingent upon customer participation. The development of any renewable generation
facilities resulting from the RES is subject to many other risks, including risks relating to
financing, permitting, technology, fuel supply, and the construction of sufficient transmission
capacity to support these facilities.


Deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which
could have a significant adverse impact on APS’s business and its results of operations.



In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in
Arizona. Retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on APS due to an
impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of
capital. Although some very limited retail competition existed in APS’s service area in 1999 and
2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility
services to APS’s customers. As a result, APS cannot predict if, when, and the extent to which,
additional competitors may re-enter APS’s service territory.


In 2010, the ACC issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar
facilities for non-profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that
calculates payments based on the energy produced are not “public service corporations” under the
Arizona Constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the ACC. A second matter is pending with
the ACC to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers who serve a broader
customer base under the same business model. The use of such products by customers within our
territory would result in some level of competition. APS cannot predict whether the ACC will deem
these vendors “public service corporations” subject to ACC regulation and when, and the extent to
which, additional service providers will enter APS’s service territory, increasing the level of
competition in the market.

 

30




Table of Contents



OPERATIONAL RISKS



APS’s results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for
electricity.



Weather Conditions. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and
affect the price of energy commodities. Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business.
In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at
that time. As a result, APS’s overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal
basis. In addition, APS has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income,
when weather conditions are milder. As a result, unusually mild weather could diminish APS’s
results of operations.


Higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and
an increased threat of forest fires. Forest fires could threaten APS’s communities and electric
transmission lines. Any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact APS’s
results of operations.


Effects of Energy Conservation Measures and Distributed Energy. The ACC has enacted rules
regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% annual energy savings requirement by 2020. This
will likely increase participation by APS customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs
and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity.
The rules also include a requirement for the ACC to review and address financial disincentives,
recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower
sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. To that end, the ACC passed a policy
statement on per customer revenue decoupling in December of 2010. The policy statement will have
no effect on APS’s rates unless implemented in a rate case. The 2009 retail rate case settlement
agreement also establishes energy efficiency goals for APS that begin in 2010 that extend through
2012, subjecting APS to energy efficiency requirements slightly greater for those years than
required under the rules described above.


APS must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. A portion of APS’s total
renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy
resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers’ properties). The
distributed energy requirement is 25% of the overall RES requirement of 3% in 2011 and increases to
30% of the applicable RES requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. Customer participation in
distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some or
all of their own energy needs.


Reduced demand due to these energy efficiency and distributed energy requirements, unless
offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on APS’s financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.


The operation of power generation facilities involves risks that could result in unscheduled power
outages or reduced output, which could materially affect APS’s results of operations.



The operation of power generation facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of
breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of
output or efficiency. Unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to
mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of
APS’s business. If
APS’s facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose
revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses.

 

31




Table of Contents



The lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on APS’s
business and results of operations.



Assured supplies of water are important for APS’s generating plants. Water in the
southwestern United States is limited and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding
the right to access and use such limited supply of water. Both groundwater and surface water in
areas important to APS’s generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and
legal proceedings. In addition, the Four Corners region, in which Four Corners is located, has
been experiencing drought conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate
moisture is not received in the watershed that supplies the area. APS’s inability to access
sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of
operations.


The ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on Indian lands could
result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a
significant impact on our business.



Certain APS power plants, including Four Corners, and portions of the transmission lines that
carry power from these plants are located on Indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other
rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. APS is currently unable to predict the
final outcome of discussions with the appropriate Indian tribes and approval by their respective
governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way.


There are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as
environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the
risk of terrorist attack.



APS has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, Palo
Verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the United States. Palo Verde
is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to obtain adequate
supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain
adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these
facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and
unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. APS maintains nuclear decommissioning
trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these
risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. In
addition, APS may be required under federal law to pay up to $118 million (but not more than $18
million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at Palo
Verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the United States. Although we have no reason to
anticipate a serious nuclear incident at Palo Verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially
and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A major incident at a
nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or
licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.


The operation of Palo Verde requires licenses that need to be periodically renewed and/or
extended. In December 2008, APS applied for renewed operating licenses for all three Palo Verde
units for 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. APS does not anticipate any
problems renewing these licenses. However, as a result of potential terrorist threats and
increased public
scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing or compliance
costs that are difficult to predict.

 

32




Table of Contents



The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial
losses that negatively impact our results of operations.



APS’s operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. APS is exposed to
the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas
and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. We have established procedures to manage
risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives,
including exchange-traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps.
As part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge
purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. The changes in market value of such contracts have a
high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. To the extent that commodity markets
are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in
greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that
negatively impact our results of operations.


The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), which was
signed into law in July 2010, contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability
of the over-the counter, or OTC, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. The
Dodd-Frank Act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets,
require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over
derivative positions. Based on the provisions included in the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementation
of regulations yet to be developed, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to
hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging
programs.


We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. We
use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties.
Despite the fact that the majority of APS’s trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by
the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could
default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period.


Changes in technology could create challenges for APS’s existing business.



Research and development activities are ongoing to assess alternative technologies that
produce power or reduce power consumption, including clean coal and coal gasification, renewable
technologies including photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation (solar) and efficiency
technologies, and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient
gas turbines. Advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production,
making APS’s existing generating facilities less economical. In addition, advances in technology
could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect APS’s business.


APS is pursuing and implementing smart grid technologies, including advanced transmission and
distribution system technologies, digital meters enabling two-way communications between the
utility and its customers, and electric usage monitoring devices for customers’ homes and
businesses. Many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative
technologies have not yet been widely used or tested, and their use on large-scale systems is not
as advanced and established as APS’s existing technologies and equipment. Uncertainties and
unknowns related to these and other
advancements in technology and equipment could adversely affect APS’s business if national
standards develop that do not embrace the current technologies or if the technologies and equipment
fail to perform as expected. In addition, widespread installation and acceptance of these devices
could enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface
between APS and its customers.

 

33




Table of Contents



We are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial
condition.



Like most companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is aging and a number of
our employees will become eligible to retire within the next few years. Although we have
undertaken efforts to recruit and train new employees, we may not be successful. We are subject to
other employee workforce factors, such as the availability of qualified personnel, the need to
negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees and potential work stoppages.
Exposure to these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business,
financial condition or results of operations.


We are subject to information security risks.



In the regular course of our business we handle a range of sensitive security and customer
information. We are subject to laws and rules issued by different agencies concerning safeguarding
and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. A security breach of our information
systems such as theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, including
confidential customer information or system operating information could have a material adverse
impact on our business and financial condition.


FINANCIAL RISKS



Financial market disruptions may increase our financing costs or limit our access to the credit and
capital markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our
financial strategy.



We rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and the bank market
as a significant source of liquidity and for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow
from our operations. We believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial
markets. However, certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely
affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include:






     
    •
     
    continuation of the current economic downturn;









     
    •
     
    terrorist attacks or threatened attacks;









     
    •
     
    mergers among financial institutions and the overall health of the banking industry;
or









     
    •
     
    the overall health of the utility industry.





In addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be
satisfied for a variety of reasons, including unexpected periods of financial distress affecting
our lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources.

 

34




Table of Contents



Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our
interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. Additionally,
an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by:






     
    •
     
    reducing our credit ratings;









     
    •
     
    increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing;









     
    •
     
    increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and









     
    •
     
    requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to
payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future
business opportunities or other purposes.





A reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial
condition and results of operations.



Our current ratings are set forth in “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Credit Ratings” in
Item 7. We cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given
period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in
its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely
affect the market price of Pinnacle West’s and APS’s securities, limit our access to capital and
increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. We would be required to
pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding
sources could decrease. In addition, borrowing costs under certain of our existing credit
facilities depend on our credit ratings. A downgrade would also require us to provide substantial
additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various
counterparties. If our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could completely eliminate any
possible future access to the commercial paper market. We note that the ratings from rating
agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be
evaluated independently of any other rating.


Market performance, changing interest rates and other economic factors could decrease the value of
our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds and increase our related
obligations, resulting in significant additional funding that could negatively impact our business.



Disruptions in the capital markets and/or decline in market value may adversely affect the
values of fixed income and equity investments held in our employee benefit plan trusts and nuclear
decommissioning trusts. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold substantial assets
in these trusts. A decline in the market value of the investments in these trusts may increase our
funding requirements. Additionally, the pension plan and other postretirement benefit liabilities
are impacted by the discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and
other postretirement benefit obligations. Declining interest rates impact the discount rate, and
may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions,
regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. Changes in demographics, including
increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the
funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit
plans. A significant portion of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all
of the nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. Our inability
to fully recover these costs in a timely manner or any increased funding obligations could
negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

 

35




Table of Contents



We may be required to adopt IFRS. The ultimate adoption of such standards could negatively
impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.



IFRS is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the International
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) that is being considered by the SEC to replace accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for use in preparation of
financial statements. If the SEC requires mandatory adoption of IFRS, we may lose our ability to
use regulatory accounting treatment, and would follow IFRS rather than GAAP for the preparation of
our financial statements beginning in 2014. In the meantime, the FASB and the IASB are working on
several accounting standards jointly to converge certain accounting differences before 2014. The
implementation and adoption of these new standards and the inability to use regulatory accounting
could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.


Our cash flow largely depends on the performance of APS.



We conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiary, APS. Substantially all of our
consolidated assets are held by APS. Accordingly, our cash flow is dependent upon the earnings and
cash flows of APS and its distributions to us. APS is a separate and distinct legal entity and has
no obligation to make distributions to us.


APS’s debt agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or
otherwise transfer funds to us. In addition, an ACC financing order requires APS to maintain a
common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow APS to pay common dividends if the payment
would reduce its common equity below that threshold. The common equity ratio, as defined in the
ACC order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term
debt, including current maturities of long-term debt.


Pinnacle West’s ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because
its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of
its subsidiaries.



Because Pinnacle West is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and
other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt
securities. The assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first
instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. Our ability to have the benefit of
their assets and cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress
affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our
subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied.


The market price of our common stock may be volatile.



The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response
to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control:






     
    •
     
    variations in our quarterly operating results;









     
    •
     
    operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts
and investors;









     
    •
     
    changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial
estimates by securities analysts and investors;




 

36




Table of Contents







     
    •
     
    developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the
energy distribution and energy generation industries;









     
    •
     
    announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint
marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;









     
    •
     
    announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us;









     
    •
     
    favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments;









     
    •
     
    our dividend policy;









     
    •
     
    future sales by the Company of equity or equity-linked securities; and









     
    •
     
    general domestic and international economic conditions.





In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been
unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations
may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.


Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Arizona law make it difficult
for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts.



These provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control
premium, include the following:






     
    •
     
    restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of “business combination”
transactions with an “interested shareholder” (generally, any person who owns 10% or
more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any
affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are
met;









     
    •
     
    anti-greenmail provisions of Arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from
purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our
outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied;









     
    •
     
    the ability of the Board of Directors to increase the size of the Board and fill
vacancies on the Board, whether resulting from such increase, or from death,
resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and









     
    •
     
    the ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred
stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares
without shareholder approval.





While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us
to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable the Board to hinder or frustrate a
transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best
interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent
directors.


SunCor’s continuing wind-down of its real estate business may give rise to various claims.



Since 2009, SunCor has been engaged in a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations,
master-planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to reduce its
outstanding debt. As of December 31, 2010, SunCor had no existing bank debt and had total assets
remaining on its books of $16 million, consisting of $8 million of intercompany receivables, $3
million
of assets held for sale and $5 million of other assets. SunCor is focusing on concluding an
orderly wind-down of its business. This effort includes addressing contingent liabilities, such as
warranty and construction claims that may be brought by property owners and potential funding
obligations to local taxing districts that financed infrastructure at certain of its real estate
developments.


Pinnacle West has not guaranteed any of SunCor’s obligations. SunCor’s remaining business
operations, and its ability to generate cash from operations, are minimal. As a result, SunCor may
seek judicial protection to effectuate a resolution of any claims that cannot be successfully
addressed by other means. In such event, Pinnacle West could be exposed to the uncertainties and
complexities inherent for parent companies in such proceedings.



 

37




Table of Contents








ITEM 1B