ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



     In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection
with the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are
risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. Unless otherwise indicated or the
context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to Pinnacle West and its
subsidiaries, including APS.


15




Table of Contents



     APS is subject to comprehensive government regulation by several federal, state and local
regulatory agencies that significantly affect its business and results of operations.


     APS is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory
agencies that significantly influence its business and results of operations. The ACC regulates
APS’ retail electric rates and APS’ issuance of securities. The ACC must also approve any transfer
of APS’ property used to provide retail electric service and approve or receive prior notification
of certain transactions between us, APS and our respective affiliates. While approved electric
rates are intended to permit APS to recover its costs of service and earn a reasonable rate of
return, the profitability of APS is affected by the rates it may charge. Consequently, our
financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of
APS’ retail rate proceedings pending before the ACC.


     APS is required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that
regulate APS’ business. The FERC, the NRC, the EPA, and the ACC regulate many aspects of our
utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and, as noted
in the preceding paragraph, the rates that APS can charge customers. We believe the necessary
permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for APS’ existing operations and that APS’
business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. However,
changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on
our results of operations. We are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating
results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies.


     On
February 22, 2007, the NRC issued a “white” finding
(low to moderate safety significance) following an inspection of the
Palo Verde emergency diesel generators after a Palo Verde Unit 3
generator did not activate during routine inspections on July 25
and September 22, 2006. This finding, coupled with a previous
NRC “yellow” finding relating to a 2004 matter involving
Palo Verde’s safety injection systems, will result in an
enhanced NRC inspection regimen.


     APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase its cost of
operations, impact its business plans, or expose it to environmental liabilities.


     APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its
present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid
waste, and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating,
and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions
obligations. These laws and regulations generally require APS to obtain and comply with a wide
variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. If there is a delay
in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval, or if APS fails to obtain, maintain or
comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to
additional expenses. In addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and
regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. Both public officials and
private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. We cannot
predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise.


     In addition, we may be a responsible party for environmental clean up at sites identified by a
regulatory body. We cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures
related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. There is
also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several
liability on all potentially responsible parties.


     We cannot be sure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new
regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us.
Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating
restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by APS are not fully recoverable from APS’


16




Table of Contents





customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.


     Concern over climate change could result in significant  legislative and regulatory
efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions.


     Concern over climate change deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere has led to significant legislative and
regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. In 1998, the United States became a
signatory to the Kyoto Protocol of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The
Kyoto Protocol, which became effective in February 2005, calls for developed nations to reduce
their emissions of greenhouse gases to specified levels by 2012. CO2, which is a major byproduct of
the combustion of fossil fuel, is a greenhouse gas that would be regulated under the Kyoto
Protocol. The United States Senate indicated that it would not enact the Kyoto Protocol, and in
2002 President Bush confirmed that the United States would not enter into the Kyoto Protocol.
Instead, the President indicated that the United States would support voluntary measures for
reducing greenhouse gases and technologies that would use or dispose of CO2 effectively and
economically. As the Kyoto Protocol becomes effective in other countries, there is increasing
pressure for sources in the United States to be subject to mandatory restrictions on CO2 emissions.
In the last year, the United States Congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic
greenhouse gas emissions, but such bills have not received sufficient Congressional approval to
date to become law. If the United States ultimately ratifies the Kyoto Protocol and/or if the
United States Congress or individual states or groups of states in which we operate ultimately pass
legislation regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any resulting limitations on generation
facility CO2 emissions could have a material adverse impact on all fossil fuel fired generation
facilities (particularly coal fired facilities), including ours.


     There are inherent risks in the operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health
and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack.


     Through APS, we have an ownership interest in and operate, on behalf of a group of owners,
Palo Verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the United States. Palo
Verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of
spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential
liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities
against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems.
APS maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its
financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the
amount of insurance coverage.


     The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related
requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance,
the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its
assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. In addition, although
we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at Palo Verde, if an incident did occur,
it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. A major
incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the
operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.


17




Table of Contents



     The operation of Palo Verde requires licenses that need to be periodically renewed and/or
extended. We do not anticipate any problems renewing these licenses. However, as a result of
potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could
result in increased licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict.


     The operation of power generation facilities involves risks that could result in unscheduled
power outages or reduced output, which could materially affect our results of operations.


     The operation of power generation facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of
breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of
output or efficiency. Unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to
mechanical failures or other complications occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our
business. If APS’ facilities operate below expectations, we may lose revenue or incur additional
expenses.


     Deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition,
which could have a significant adverse impact on our business and our financial results.


     In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in
Arizona. Retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on APS due to an
impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of
capital. Although some very limited retail competition existed in APS’ service area in 1999 and
2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility
services to APS’ customers. As a result, we cannot predict when, and the extent to which,
additional competitors will re-enter APS’ service territory.


     As a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale
electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity
suppliers, non-utility generators, independent power producers, and wholesale power marketers and
brokers. This increased competition could affect APS’ load forecasts, plans for power supply and
wholesale energy sales and related revenues. As a result of the changing regulatory environment
and the relatively low barriers to entry, we expect wholesale competition to increase.


     Changes in technology may adversely affect our business.


     Research and development activities are ongoing to improve alternative technologies to produce
power, including fuel cells, micro turbines, clean coal and coal gasification, photovoltaic (solar)
cells and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas
turbines. Advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production,
making APS’ generating facilities less competitive. In addition, advances in technology could
reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect APS’ business.


     Our results of operations can be adversely affected by milder weather.


     Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of
energy commodities. Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. In Arizona, demand
for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. As a


18




Table of Contents





result, our overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In
addition, APS has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather
conditions are milder. As a result, unusually mild weather could diminish our results of
operations and harm our financial condition.


     Our cash flow largely depends on the performance of our subsidiaries.


     We conduct our operations primarily through subsidiaries. Substantially all of our
consolidated assets are held by such subsidiaries. Accordingly, our cash flow is dependent upon
the earnings and cash flows of these subsidiaries and their distributions to us. The subsidiaries
are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make distributions to us.


     The debt agreements of some of our subsidiaries may restrict their ability to pay dividends,
make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. An ACC financing order requires APS to
indefinitely maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow APS to pay common
dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. The common equity
ratio, as defined in the ACC order, is common equity divided by common equity plus long-term debt,
including current maturities of long-term debt.


     Our ability to meet our debt service obligations could be adversely affected because our debt
securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of our
subsidiaries.


     Because we are structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other
liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt
securities. None of the indentures under which we or our subsidiaries may issue debt securities
limits our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt in the future. The
assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service
their own debt and other obligations. Our ability to have the benefit of their assets and cash
flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries,
would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their
creditors have been satisfied.


     If we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to implement our
financial strategy will be adversely affected.


     We rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and the bank
markets as a significant source of liquidity and for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash
flow from our operations. We believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial
markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain market disruptions may increase our
cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such
disruptions could include:






     
    •
     
    an economic downturn;



     

     
    •
     
    the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company;



     

     
    •
     
    increased market prices for electricity and gas;




19




Table of Contents








     
    •
     
    terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of unrelated
energy companies;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in technology; or



     

     
    •
     
    the overall health of the utility or real estate industry.





     Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our
interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. Additionally,
an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by:






     
    •
     
    increasing the cost of future debt financing;



     

     
    •
     
    increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to
payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future
business opportunities or other purposes; and



     

     
    •
     
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less
debt.





     A further reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations.


     We cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period
of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its
judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any downgrade could limit our access to capital
and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. We would likely be
required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors
and funding sources could decrease. In addition, borrowing costs under certain of our existing
credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. A downgrade could also require us to provide
additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various
counterparties. If our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could limit our access to the
commercial paper market. We note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to
buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any
other rating.


     The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business and changing interest
rates and market conditions could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of
operations.


     Our operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices and, subject to
specified risk parameters, engaging in marketing and trading activities intended to profit from
market price movements. We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and
transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and emissions allowances. We have
established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing
various commodity derivatives, including exchange-traded futures and options and over-the-counter
forwards, options, and swaps. As part of our overall risk management program, we enter into
derivative transactions to


20




Table of Contents






hedge purchases and sales of electricity, fuels, and emissions allowances and credits. The
changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged
commodity.


     We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. We
use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties.
Despite the fact that the majority of trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the
rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default,
resulting in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period.


     Changing interest rates affect interest paid on variable-rate debt and interest earned on
variable-rate securities in our pension plan, other postretirement benefit plan and nuclear
decommissioning trust funds. Our policy is to manage interest rates through the use of a
combination of fixed-rate and floating-rate debt. The pension plan and other postretirement
benefit liabilities are also impacted by the discount rate, which is the interest rate used to
discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. Declining interest rates
impact the discount rate, and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit
costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. The
pension plan, other postretirement benefit and nuclear decommissioning trust funds also have risks
associated with changing market values of fixed income and equity investments. A significant
portion of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear
decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices.


     Actual results could differ from estimates used to prepare our financial statements.


     In preparing our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, management must often make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at
the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can
be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the
following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments and
complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved.






     
    •
     
    Regulatory Accounting — Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of
regulators, such as the ACC and the FERC, to be reflected in our financial statements.
Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an
expense in the current period by unregulated companies. If future recovery of costs
ceases to be probable, the assets would be written off as a charge in current period
earnings. A major component of our regulatory assets is the retail fuel and purchased
power costs deferred under the PSA, a portion of which is subject to a prudence review
by the ACC as a result of unplanned Palo Verde outages in 2005 and 2006.



     

     
    •
     
    Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting — Changes in our actuarial
assumptions used in calculating our pension and other postretirement benefit liability
and expense can have a significant impact on our earnings and financial position. The
most relevant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate used to measure our liability
and net periodic cost, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to
estimate earnings on invested funds over the long-term, and the assumed healthcare cost
trend rates. We review these assumptions on an annual basis and adjust them as
necessary.




21




Table of Contents








     
    •
     
    Derivative Accounting — Derivative accounting requires evaluation of rules that are
complex and subject to varying interpretations. Our evaluation of these rules, as they
apply to our contracts, will determine whether we use accrual accounting (for contracts
designated as normal) or fair value (mark-to-market) accounting. Mark-to-market
accounting requires that changes in the fair value are recognized periodically in
income unless certain hedge criteria are met. For fair value hedges, the gain or loss
on the derivative as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item associated
with the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. For cash flow hedges, the effective
portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in common stock
equity (as a component of other comprehensive income (loss)) and are recognized in
earnings when the related transaction occurs.





     The market price of our common stock may be volatile.


     The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response
to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control:






     
    •
     
    variations in our quarterly operating results;



     

     
    •
     
    operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts
and investors;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial
estimates by securities analysts and investors;



     

     
    •
     
    developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the
energy distribution and energy generation industries;



     

     
    •
     
    announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint
marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;



     

     
    •
     
    announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us;



     

     
    •
     
    favorable or adverse regulatory developments;



     

     
    •
     
    our dividend policy;



     

     
    •
     
    future sale of our equity or equity-linked securities; and



     

     
    •
     
    general domestic and international economic conditions.





     In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been
unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations
may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.


22




Table of Contents



     We may enter into credit and other agreements from time to time that restrict our ability to
pay dividends.


     Payment of dividends on our common stock may be restricted by credit and other agreements
entered into by us from time to time. There are currently no material restrictions on our ability
to pay dividends under any such agreement.


     SunCor’s business and financial performance could be adversely affected by a variety of
factors affecting the real estate market.


     SunCor’s business and financial performance could be adversely affected by a variety of
factors affecting the real estate market, including downward changes in general economic, real
estate construction or other business conditions; the potential overvaluation of land and new
homes, which could result in an economic down cycle for the homebuilding industry; future increases
in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or increases in the effective costs of
owning a home, which could prevent potential customers from buying homes in SunCor’s developments;
competition for homebuyers or commercial customers or partners, which could reduce SunCor’s
profitability; supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and
building materials, which could increase costs and delay deliveries; government regulations, which
could increase the cost and limit the availability of SunCor’s development, homebuilding and
commercial projects; and inflation, which could result in increased costs that SunCor may not be
able to recoup if demand declines.





ITEM 1B