Item 1a. Risk Factors  As a global manufacturer of coatings, glass and chemicals products, we operate in a business environment
that includes risks. These risks are not unlike the risks we have faced in the recent past. Each of the risks described in this section could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and liquidity. While the factors listed here are
considered to be the more significant factors, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles which may adversely affect our
business.    Increases in prices and declines in the
availability of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results  Our operating results are significantly affected by the cost of raw
materials and energy, including natural gas. Changes in natural gas prices have a significant impact on the operating performance of our Commodity Chemicals and Glass businesses. Each one-dollar change in our unit price of natural gas per million
British Thermal Units (“mmbtu”) has a direct impact of approximately $60 million to $70 million on our annual operating costs. In 2007, natural gas costs declined slightly in the U.S. compared to 2006 levels. Year-over-year coatings raw
material costs rose by $40 million in 2007 following a rise of $75 million in 2006. Additionally, certain raw materials are critical to our production processes. These include titanium dioxide and epoxy
and other resins in the Coatings businesses; lenses, photochromic dye, sand and soda ash in the Optical and Specialty Materials businesses; brine and ethylene in the Commodity Chemicals business; and sand and soda ash in the Glass businesses. We
have made, and plan to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. However, an inability to obtain these critical raw materials would adversely impact our ability to produce products. 
  We experience substantial competition from certain low-cost regions
 Growing competition from companies in certain regions of the world, including Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, where energy and labor costs
are lower than those in the U.S., could result in lower selling prices or reduced demand for some of our glass and fiber glass products.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">We are subject to existing and evolving standards relating to the protection of the environment  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">Excluding 2006, pretax charges against income for environmental remediation ranged between $10 million and $49 million per year over the past 15 years. In 2006 those
charges totaled $207 million. We have accrued $276 million for estimated remediation costs that are probable at December 31, 2007. Our assessment of the potential impact of these environmental contingencies is subject to considerable uncertainty due
to the complex, ongoing and evolving process of investigation and remediation, if necessary, of such environmental contingencies, and the potential for technological and regulatory developments. As such, in addition to the amounts currently
reserved, we may be subject to loss contingencies related to environmental matters estimated to be as much as $200 million to $300 million. Such unreserved losses are reasonably possible but are not currently considered to be probable of occurrence.
   We are involved in a number of lawsuits and claims,
both actual and potential, in which substantial monetary damages are sought  The results of any future litigation or settlement of such lawsuits and
claims are inherently unpredictable, but such outcomes could be adverse and material in amount.    <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2" COLOR="#0c4f87">For over 30 years, we have been a defendant in lawsuits involving claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Most of our potential exposure relates to allegations by plaintiffs that PPG should be liable for injuries involving asbestos containing thermal insulation products manufactured by Pittsburgh Corning Corporation
(“PC”). PPG is a 50% shareholder of PC. Although we have entered into a settlement arrangement with several parties concerning these asbestos claims as discussed in Note 15, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8
of this Form 10-K, the arrangement remains subject to court proceedings and, if not approved, the outcome 
  








16
 
2007 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K





Table of Contents

   
could be material to the results of operations of any particular period.  <FONT
SIZE="1">  We sell products to U.S.-based automotive original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">The North American automotive industry continues to experience structural change, including the loss of U.S. market share by General Motors, Ford and Chrysler. Further
deterioration of market conditions could cause certain of our customers and suppliers to have liquidity problems, potentially resulting in the write-off of amounts due from these customers and cost impacts of changing suppliers.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  Our international operations expose us to additional risks and
uncertainties that could affect our financial results  Because we are a global company, our results are subject to certain inherent risks, including
economic and political conditions in international markets and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. While approximately 80% of sales and operating income in 2007 was generated by products sold in the United States, Canada and Western
Europe, our remaining sales and operating income are generated in developing regions, such as Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. With the acquisition of SigmaKalon in January 2008, we have increased our international operations as substantially
all of its sales are outside the United States.    As a
producer of chemicals, we manufacture and transport certain materials that are inherently hazardous due to their toxic nature  We have significant
experience in handling these materials and take precautions to handle and transport them in a safe manner. However, these materials, if mishandled or released into the environment, could cause substantial property damage or personal injuries
resulting in significant legal claims against us. In addition, evolving regulations concerning the security of chemical production facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals could result in increased future capital or operating costs.
   Business disruptions could have a negative impact on
our results of operations and financial condition  Unexpected events, including supply disruptions, temporary plant and/or power outages, natural
disasters and severe weather events, fires, or war or terrorist activities, could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise harm the operations of PPG, our customers and our suppliers. It is not possible for us to predict the occurrence or
consequence of any such events. However, such events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to receive raw materials from suppliers and to deliver products to customers.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  The failure to successfully integrate the acquisition of SigmaKalon
could adversely affect our financial results  On January 2, 2008, we completed the acquisition of SigmaKalon, a worldwide coatings producer based in
Uithoorn, Netherlands. The total cost of the transaction, including assumed debt, was approximately $3.2 billion. In the event that we do not successfully integrate SigmaKalon into our operations, our
consolidated operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.    <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2" COLOR="#0c4f87">Our performance is affected by the economic conditions in the U.S. and in other nations where we do business  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Declining economic conditions may have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Overall demand for our products could be reduced as a direct result of an
economic recession.    
Item 1b