Item 1A. Risk Factors  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:3%">As a global manufacturer of coatings, glass and chemicals products, we operate in a business environment that includes risks. These risks are
not unlike the risks we have faced in the recent past. Each of the risks described in this section could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and liquidity. While the factors listed here are considered to be the more
significant factors, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles which may adversely affect our business.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">  The global recession and credit crisis could continue to
have negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.  During the fourth quarter of 2008, the demand for
many of our products in Europe, Asia and Latin America declined significantly as the impact of the recession, which had impacted demand throughout 2008 in the U.S. and U.K. economies, spread globally. Many global industrial end-markets remained
depressed for most of 2009. The impact of the recession was felt by all of our businesses but most noticeably by those businesses serving the automotive original equipment, construction, housing and general industrial markets. Entering 2010, the
global economic outlook reflects expectations of gradual year-over-year improvement in many industrial sectors, but the breadth and pace of the recovery is uncertain. Anticipation is for growth to continue in most Asian economies driven by these
global demand improvements. Modest recovery is expected to continue in the North American economy, with some offsets due to later economic cycle sectors such as commercial construction, which is projected to continue to decline. The recovery rate of
the European economy is expected to lag both Asia and North America. A source of concern is the anticipation that various government stimulus programs will gradually be removed without a consensus conviction that consumer spending in these countries
will provide an offset to support the recovery. Continued weakness in the global economy would be expected to result in lower demand for many of our products and increase our exposure to credit risk from customers in the industries most impacted by
the weak economy. How strongly the rebound of the global economy takes hold or if the signs of recovery will last is not known.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">Increases in prices and declines in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results.
 Our operating results are significantly affected by the cost of raw materials and energy, including natural gas.
Changes in natural gas prices have a significant impact on the operating performance of our Commodity Chemicals and Glass businesses. Each one-dollar change in our unit cost of natural gas per million British Thermal Units (“mmbtu”) has a
direct impact of approximately $60 million to $70 million on our annual operating costs. In 2009, our natural gas costs on average decreased almost 33% in the U.S. compared to 2008 levels. Year-over-year coatings raw material costs declined by
approximately $150 million in 2009 following a rise of approximately $150 million in 2008. This increase in costs, which was partially linked to increased oil prices, occurred in all regions of the world, with the most significant impact in the U.S.
Whether oil prices and our raw material costs will increase in 2010 is not known.    <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">We also import raw materials, particularly for use at our manufacturing facilities in the emerging regions of the world. In most cases, those imports are priced in the
  








10
 
2009 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K




Table of Contents

   
currency of the supplier and, therefore, our margins are at risk of being lowered if those foreign currencies strengthen against the local currencies of our manufacturing facilities. 
  Additionally, certain raw materials are critical to our
production processes. These include titanium dioxide and epoxy and other resins in the Coatings businesses; lenses, photochromic dye, sand and soda ash in the Optical and Specialty Materials businesses; brine and ethylene in the Commodity Chemicals
business; and sand and soda ash in the Glass businesses. We have made, and plan to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. However, an inability to obtain these critical raw materials would
adversely impact our ability to produce products.    <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2"
COLOR="#0c4f87">We experience substantial competition from certain low-cost regions.  Growing competition from
companies in certain regions of the world, including Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, where energy and labor costs are lower than those in the U.S., could result in lower selling prices or reduced demand for some of our glass and fiber glass
products.    We are subject to existing and
evolving standards relating to the protection of the environment.  We have accrued $287 million for estimated
environmental remediation costs that are probable at December 31, 2009. Our assessment of the potential impact of these environmental contingencies is subject to considerable uncertainty due to the complex, ongoing and evolving process of
investigation and remediation, if necessary, of such environmental contingencies, and the potential for technological and regulatory developments. As such, in addition to the amounts currently reserved, we may be subject to loss contingencies
related to environmental matters estimated to be as much as $200 million to $300 million. Such unreserved losses are reasonably possible but are not currently considered to be probable of occurrence.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  We are involved in a number of lawsuits and claims, both
actual and potential, in which substantial monetary damages are sought.  The results of any future litigation or
settlement of such lawsuits and claims are inherently unpredictable, but such outcomes could be adverse and material in amount.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">For over 30 years, we have been a defendant in lawsuits involving claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos. 
 Most of our potential exposure relates to allegations by plaintiffs that PPG should be liable for injuries involving asbestos
containing thermal insulation products manufactured by Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (“PC”). PPG is a 50% shareholder of PC. Although we have entered into a settlement arrangement with several parties concerning these asbestos claims as
discussed in Note 16, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, the arrangement remains subject to court proceedings and, if not approved, the outcome could be material to the results of operations of any
particular period.    Our products are
subject to existing and evolving regulations.  Regulations concerning the composition and use of chemical products
continue to evolve. Developments concerning these regulations could potentially impact (i) the availability or viability of some of the raw materials we use in our product formulations and/or (ii) our ability to supply certain products to some
customers or markets.    Our international
operations expose us to additional risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results.  Because we are a
global company, our results are subject to certain inherent risks, including economic and political conditions in international markets and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. While approximately 75% of sales and operating income in
2009 was generated by products sold in the United States, Canada and Western Europe, our remaining sales and operating income are generated in developing regions, such as Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  As a producer of chemicals, we manufacture and transport
certain materials that are inherently hazardous due to their toxic nature.  We have significant experience in handling
these materials and take precautions to handle and transport them in a safe manner. However, these materials, if mishandled or released into the environment, could cause substantial property damage or personal injuries resulting in significant legal
claims against us. In addition, evolving regulations concerning the security of chemical production facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals could result in increased future capital or operating costs.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  We sell products to global and regional automotive
original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers.  The economic downturn caused declines in global production of
automobiles and light trucks, which adversely impacted our sales volumes. While the automotive market experienced higher and more consistent production and sales levels in the second half of 2009, the overall market still remained at a very low
activity level.    The North American automotive
industry continues to experience structural change, including the loss of U.S. market share by General Motors and Chrysler. During 2009, both companies emerged from bankruptcy with the assistance of equity infusions by the U.S. government. These
developments have mitigated any potential credit exposure we may face. However, we remain focused on the continual management of automotive customer credit risk as further deterioration of market conditions could
  








2009 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K
 
11




Table of Contents

   
cause additional liquidity problems, potentially resulting in the write-off of amounts due from these customers and cost impacts of changing suppliers.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  Additionally, the same economic conditions that are impacting
our continuing businesses that serve the automotive original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) market are affecting the divested automotive glass and services business, in which PPG maintains an approximate 40 percent interest.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  Business disruptions could have a negative impact on our
results of operations and financial condition.  Unexpected events, including supply disruptions, temporary plant and/or
power outages, natural disasters and severe weather events, fires, war or terrorist activities, could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise harm the operations of PPG, our customers and our suppliers. It is not possible for us to predict
the occurrence or consequence of any such events. However, such events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to receive raw materials from suppliers or to deliver products to customers.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  Item 1B