Item 1a. Risk Factors  As a global manufacturer of coatings, glass and chemicals products, we operate in a business
environment that includes risks that are not unlike the risks we have faced in years past. Each of the risks described in this section could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. While the factors listed here are considered
to be the more significant factors, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles
which may adversely affect our business. 


•
 
Our operating results are significantly affected by the cost of raw materials and energy, including natural gas. We may not be able to fully offset the impact of higher raw
materials and energy costs through price increases or productivity improvements. 


•
 
Growing competition from companies in certain regions of the world, including Asia, Eastern Europe and South America, where energy and labor costs are lower than the U.S. could
reduce demand for our products. 


•
 
Our facilities are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. Remediation at certain facilities is an ongoing operating cost, as pretax charges against income over the
last 15 years for environmental remediation have ranged between $10 million and $49 million annually. We have accrued $94 million for estimated remediation costs that are probable at Dec. 31, 2005. In addition to the amounts currently reserved, the
Company may be subject to loss contingencies related to environmental matters estimated to be as much as $200 million to $400 million. Such unreserved losses are reasonably possible but are not currently considered to be probable of occurrence.



•
 
We are involved in a number of lawsuits and claims, both actual and potential, in which substantial monetary damages are sought. The unpredictability of existing and possible future
litigation could have an adverse impact on our operating results. 


•
 
For over thirty years, we have been a defendant in lawsuits involving claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos. Most of our potential exposure relates to
allegations by plaintiffs that PPG should be liable for injuries involving asbestos-containing thermal insulation products manufactured by a 50% owned joint venture, Pittsburgh Corning Corporation. Although we have entered into a settlement
arrangement with several parties concerning these asbestos claims as discussed in Note 13, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, the arrangement remains subject to court approval and if not approved, the
outcome could be material to the results of operations of any particular period. 


•
 
We sell products to U.S. automotive original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers. Further deterioration of market conditions could cause certain of our customers to have
liquidity problems, potentially resulting in the write-off of amounts due from these customers. 


•
 
 Because we are a global company, our results are subject to certain inherent risks, including economic and political conditions in international markets and
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. While approximately 90% of sales and operating income is generated by products sold in the United States, Canada and Western Europe, our remaining 
  
 14  |<FONT FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="1"
COLOR="#000000">  2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K 






Table of Contents

  


 
 
sales and operating income are generated in developing regions, such as Asia, Eastern Europe and South America. 


•
 
Certain raw materials are critical to our production processes. These include titanium dioxide and epoxy and other resins in the coatings segment and sand, soda ash and polyvinyl
butyral in the glass segment. The Company has made, and plans to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. However, an inability to obtain these critical raw materials would adversely impact our
ability to produce products. 


•
 
As a producer of industrial chemicals and coatings, we manufacture and transport certain materials that are inherently hazardous due to their toxic or volatile nature. We have
significant experience in handling these materials and take precautions to handle and transport them in a safe manner. However, these materials, if mishandled or released into the environment, could cause substantial property damage or personal
injuries resulting in significant legal claims against us.    <FONT FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2"
COLOR="#0c4f87">
Item 1b