Item 1a. Risk Factors  As a global manufacturer of coatings, glass and chemicals products, we
operate in a business environment that includes risks. These risks are not unlike the risks we have faced in the recent past. Each of the risks described in this section could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and liquidity.
While the factors listed here are considered to be the more significant factors, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles
which may adversely affect our business.    The current
U.S. and worldwide recession and credit crisis could have a continuing negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.  <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">During the fourth quarter of 2008, the demand for many of our products in Europe, Asia and Latin America declined significantly as the impact of the recession in the U.S. economy, which had impacted demand throughout 2008, spread globally.
The impact of the recession was felt most noticeably by our businesses serving the automotive original equipment, construction and general industrial markets. Entering 2009, the global economic outlook in terms of GDP and industrial production is
for weak conditions to prevail. Many economists are forecasting that the recession will persist through at least the first half of 2009. Continued weakness in the global economy would be expected to result in lower demand for many of our products
and increase our exposure to credit risk from customers in the industries most impacted by the weak economy. How deep and how long the recession will last is not known.   
 We sell products to global and regional automotive original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:3%">Global production of automobiles and light trucks declined by 2% in 2008 reflecting declines of 19% in the U.S. and Canada and 7% in Western Europe that
were substantially offset by growth in production in Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America. The industry forecast for 2009 projects a global decline of nearly 10%, with declines in production in all regions of the world led by the U.S. and Canada,
where vehicle production is forecast to be down approximately 25%. Declines in the global production of automobiles and light trucks of this magnitude would adversely impact our sales volume.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">  The North American automotive industry continues to experience structural
change, including the loss of U.S. market share by General Motors, Ford and Chrysler. Further deterioration of market conditions could cause certain of our customers and suppliers to experience liquidity problems, potentially resulting in the
write-off of amounts due from these customers and cost impacts of changing suppliers. Our worldwide sales to General Motors, Ford and Chrysler are made under normal credit terms and we expect to collect substantially all of the approximately $45
million due from these customers at December 31, 2008 in the first quarter of 2009; however, we remain focused on the continual management of this credit risk.   
Increases in prices and declines in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:3%">Our operating results are significantly affected by the cost of raw materials and energy, including natural gas. Changes in natural gas prices have a
significant impact on the operating performance of our Commodity Chemicals and Glass businesses. Each one-dollar change in our unit price of natural gas per million British Thermal Units (“mmbtu”) has a direct impact of approximately $60
million to $70 million on our annual operating costs. In 2008, our natural gas costs were volatile and, on average increased almost 25% in the U.S. compared to 2007 levels. Year-over-year coatings raw material costs rose by $150 million in 2008
following a rise of $40 million in 2007. This inflation, which was partially linked to increased oil prices, occurred in all regions of the world, with the most significant impact in the U.S. The impact was most significant in the automotive,
industrial, architectural coatings–Americas and Asia Pacific and automotive refinish businesses.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:3%">We also import raw materials, particularly for use at our manufacturing facilities in the emerging regions of the world. In most cases, those imports are
priced in the currency of the supplier and, therefore, our margins are at risk of being lowered if those foreign currencies strengthen against the local currencies of our manufacturing facilities.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  Additionally, certain raw materials are critical to our production
processes. These include titanium dioxide and epoxy and other resins in the Coatings businesses; lenses, photochromic dye, sand and soda ash in the Optical and Specialty Materials businesses; brine and ethylene in the Commodity Chemicals business;
and sand and soda ash in the Glass businesses. We have made, and plan to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. However, an inability to obtain these critical raw materials would adversely
impact our ability to produce products.   








10
 
2008 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K





Table of Contents

   We experience
substantial competition from certain low-cost regions.  Growing competition from companies in certain regions of the world,
including Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, where energy and labor costs are lower than those in the U.S., could result in lower selling prices or reduced demand for some of our glass and fiber glass products.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  We are subject to existing and evolving standards relating to the
protection of the environment.  Excluding 2006, pretax charges against income for environmental remediation ranged between $10
million and $49 million per year over the past 15 years. In 2006 those charges totaled $207 million. We have accrued $299 million for estimated remediation costs that are probable at December 31, 2008. Our assessment of the potential impact of these
environmental contingencies is subject to considerable uncertainty due to the complex, ongoing and evolving process of investigation and remediation, if necessary, of such environmental contingencies, and the potential for technological and
regulatory developments. As such, in addition to the amounts currently reserved, we may be subject to loss contingencies related to environmental matters estimated to be as much as $200 million to $300 million. Such unreserved losses are reasonably
possible but are not currently considered to be probable of occurrence.    <FONT FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2"
COLOR="#0c4f87">We are involved in a number of lawsuits and claims, both actual and potential, in which substantial monetary damages are sought.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The results of any future litigation or settlement of such lawsuits and claims are inherently unpredictable, but such outcomes could be adverse and material in amount.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  For over 30 years, we have been a defendant in lawsuits involving
claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos.  Most of our potential exposure relates to allegations by plaintiffs that
PPG should be liable for injuries involving asbestos containing thermal insulation products manufactured by Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (“PC”). PPG is a 50% shareholder of PC. Although we have entered into a settlement arrangement with
several parties concerning these asbestos claims as discussed in Note 15, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, the arrangement remains subject to court proceedings and, if not approved, the outcome
could be material to the results of operations of any particular period.    <FONT FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2"
COLOR="#0c4f87">Our products are subject to existing and evolving regulations.  Regulations concerning the composition and use
of chemical products continue to evolve. Developments concerning these regulations could potentially impact the availability or viability of some of the raw materials we use in our product formulations and/or our ability to supply certain products
to some customers or markets.    Our international
operations expose us to additional risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results.  Because we are a global
company, our results are subject to certain inherent risks, including economic and political conditions in international markets and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. While approximately 75% of sales and operating income in 2008 was
generated by products sold in the United States, Canada and Western Europe, our remaining sales and operating income are generated in developing regions, such as Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  As a producer of chemicals, we manufacture and transport certain
materials that are inherently hazardous due to their toxic nature.  We have significant experience in handling these materials and
take precautions to handle and transport them in a safe manner. However, these materials, if mishandled or released into the environment, could cause substantial property damage or personal injuries resulting in significant legal claims against us.
In addition, evolving regulations concerning the security of chemical production facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals could result in increased future capital or operating costs.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  Business disruptions could have a negative impact on our results of
operations and financial condition.  Unexpected events, including supply disruptions, temporary plant and/or power outages, natural
disasters and severe weather events, fires, or war or terrorist activities, could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise harm the operations of PPG, our customers and our suppliers. It is not possible for us to predict the occurrence or
consequence of any such events. However, such events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to receive raw materials from suppliers and to deliver products to customers.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  Item 1b