Item 1a. Risk Factors  As a global manufacturer of coatings, glass and chemicals products, we operate in a business environment
that includes risks. These risks are not unlike the risks we have faced in the recent past. Each of the risks described in this section could adversely affect our operating results, financial position, and liquidity. While the factors listed here
are considered to be the more significant factors, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles which may adversely affect our
business.    Increases in prices and declines in the
availability of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results  Our operating results are significantly affected by the cost of raw
materials and energy, including natural gas. Changes in natural gas prices have a significant impact on the operating performance of our Commodity Chemicals and Glass businesses. Each one-dollar change in the unit price of natural gas per million
British Thermal Units (“mmbtu”) has a direct impact of approximately $60 million to $70 million on our annual operating costs. All time record high natural gas costs in North America were reached in 2005 following the severe hurricanes
that impacted the U.S. Gulf Coast in the third quarter. In 2006, natural gas costs in North America remained high by historical standards, but did decline slightly versus the 2005 levels. Year-over-year coatings raw material costs rose by $75
million in 2006 following a rise of $245 million in 2005. Additionally, certain raw materials are critical to our production processes. These include titanium dioxide and epoxy and other resins in the Industrial Coatings and Performance and Applied
Coatings businesses and sand, soda ash and polyvinyl butyral in the Glass businesses. The Company has made, and plans to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. However, an inability to obtain
these critical raw materials would adversely impact our ability to produce products.    <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2" COLOR="#0c4f87">We experience substantial competition from certain low-cost regions  Growing competition from companies in certain
regions of the world, including Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, where energy and labor costs are lower than those in the U.S., could result in lower selling prices or reduce demand for some of our glass and fiber glass products. 
  Our facilities are subject to various environmental laws and
regulations  Pretax charges against income for environmental remediation ranged between $10 million and $49 million per year over the 15 years prior
to 2006. In 2006 those charges totaled $207 million. We have accrued $282 million for estimated remediation costs that are probable at Dec. 31, 2006. In addition to the amounts currently reserved, the Company may be subject to loss contingencies
related to environmental matters estimated to be as much as $200 million to $300 million. Such unreserved losses are reasonably possible but are not currently considered to be probable of occurrence.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  We are involved in a number of lawsuits and claims, both actual and
potential, in which substantial monetary damages are sought  The results of any future litigation or settlement of such lawsuits and claims are
inherently unpredictable, but such outcomes could be adverse and material in amount.    <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2" COLOR="#0c4f87">For over thirty years, we have been a defendant in lawsuits involving claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Most of our potential exposure relates to allegations by plaintiffs that PPG should be liable for injuries involving asbestos containing thermal insulation products manufactured by a 50% owned joint venture,
Pittsburgh Corning Corporation. Although we have entered into a settlement arrangement with several parties concerning these asbestos claims as discussed in Note 14, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K,
the arrangement remains subject to court proceedings and, if not approved, the outcome could be material to the results of operations of any particular period.   
We sell products to U.S.-based automotive original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">The North American automotive industry continues to experience structural change, including the loss of U.S. market share by General Motors, Ford and Daimler- Chrysler.
Further deterioration of market conditions could cause certain of our customers and suppliers to have liquidity problems, potentially resulting in the write-off of amounts due from these customers and cost impacts of changing suppliers. 
  Our international operations expose us to additional risks and
uncertainties that could affect our financial results  Because we are a global company, our results are subject to certain inherent risks, including
economic and political conditions in international markets and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. While approximately 85% of sales and operating income is generated by products sold in the United States, Canada and Western Europe, our
remaining sales and operating income are generated in developing regions, such as Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America.   








2006 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K
 
15





Table of Contents

   
As a producer of chemicals and coatings, we manufacture and transport certain materials that are inherently hazardous due to their
toxic or volatile nature  We have significant experience in handling these materials and take precautions to handle and transport them in a safe
manner. However, these materials, if mishandled or released into the environment, could cause substantial property damage or personal injuries resulting in significant legal claims against us. In addition, evolving regulations concerning the
security of chemical production facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals could result in increased future capital or operating costs.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">Business disruptions could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">Unexpected events, including supply disruptions, temporary plant and/or power outages, natural disasters and severe weather events, fires, or war or terrorist activities,
could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise harm the operations of PPG, our customers and our suppliers. It is not possible for PPG to predict the occurrence or consequence of any such events. However, such events could make it difficult
or impossible for PPG to receive raw materials from suppliers and deliver products to customers or reduce demand for PPG’s products.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">
Item 1b