Item 1A. Risk FactorsAs a global manufacturer of coatings, optical and specialty materials and glass products, we operate in a business environment that includes risks. These risks are not unlike the risks we have faced in the recent past nor are they unlike risks faced by our competitors. Each of the risks described in this section could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and liquidity. While the factors listed here are considered to be the more significant factors, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles which may adversely affect our businesses and our results of operations.  Increases in prices and declines in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results.Our financial results are significantly affected by the cost of raw materials.  Coatings raw materials both organic, primarily petroleum based, materials and inorganic materials, including titanium dioxide, generally comprise between 70-to-80% of cost of goods sold in most coatings formulations and represent PPG’s single largest production cost component.  PPG input prices inflated further in the first half of 2012 continuing the trend of 2010 and 2011, and then, in the second half of the year, moderated modestly from the year's peak levels. The largest inflationary impact related to the cost of titanium dioxide pigments, with year-over-year reductions in the costs for various petrochemical-based materials countering those increases.  Raw material costs for our coatings businesses increased nearly $725 million due to inflation during the three year period ended December 31, 2012.  The inflation rate for 2012 was low single-digit percentages.We also import raw materials and intermediates, particularly for use at our manufacturing facilities in the emerging regions of the world. In most cases, those imports are priced in the currency of the supplier and, therefore, if that currency strengthens against the currency of our manufacturing facility, our margins are at risk of being lowered.Most of the raw materials used in production are purchased from outside sources, and the Company has made, and plans to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. Supply of critical raw materials is managed by establishing contracts, procuring from multiple sources, and identifying alternative materials or technology whenever possible. The Company is continuing its aggressive sourcing initiatives to support its continuous efforts to find the lowest raw material costs. These initiatives include reformulation of our products using both petroleum-derived and bio-based materials as part of a product renewal strategy, qualifying multiple and local sources of supply, including suppliers from Asia and other lower cost regions of the world, and strategic initiatives with multiple global suppliers to secure and enhance PPG’s supply of titanium dioxide and other materials.An inability to obtain critical raw materials would adversely impact our ability to produce products. Increases in the cost of raw materials may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to offset these higher costs in a timely manner.The pace of economic growth and level of uncertainty could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.During 2010, the global economy began to mend from the economic downturn of 2008 and 2009; however, the pace of recovery was uneven. Beginning in 2011, overall activity levels in most major global economies and in most end-use markets exhibited year-over-year growth. During 2012, overall activity levels varied greatly among the major global economies, with similar differences experienced among the various coatings end-use markets.  Because of this variation, overall aggregate PPG global volume grew modestly for the year, with some deviation from quarter-to-quarter.   Entering 2012 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM  10-K   13Table of Contents2013, the disparity of economic activity by region and end use market is anticipated to continue. Of the major regions, growth prospects remain in North America, bolstered by further anticipated recovery in construction activity and continued strength in various industrial markets, including automotive production and increased investment related to the energy and chemical industries.  However, concerns over fiscal uncertainty and unemployment temper these prospects somewhat.   The 2013 growth rate in emerging regions is expected to remain mixed, but improve somewhat based on increases in local consumption, less inventory destocking associated with lower exports, and government stimulus actions.  The Eurozone is expected to remain subdued with very few end-use markets expected to deliver growth, and downside risk to regional economic conditions remains.PPG provides products and services to a variety of end-use markets and in many geographies.  This broad end-use market exposure and expanded geographic presence lessens the significance of any significant or rapid decrease in activity levels; nonetheless, lower demand levels may result in lower sales, which would result in reduced earnings and cash flows.We are subject to existing and evolving standards relating to the protection of the environment.Environmental laws and regulations control, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances, and regulate various health and safety matters. The environmental laws and regulations we are subject to, including those in the United States as well as in other countries in which we operate, impose liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up current sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances. Violations of these laws and regulations can also result in fines and penalties. Future environmental laws and regulations may require substantial capital expenditures or may require or cause us to modify or curtail our operations, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.As described in Note 15, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, we are currently undertaking environmental remediation activities at a number of our facilities and properties, the cost of which is substantial. We have accrued a $332 million liability for estimated environmental remediation costs at December 31, 2012. Our assessment of the potential impact of these environmental contingencies is subject to considerable uncertainty due to the complex, ongoing and evolving process of investigation and remediation, if necessary, of such environmental contingencies, and the potential for technological and regulatory developments. As such, in addition to the amounts currently reserved, we may be subject to loss contingencies related to environmental matters estimated to be as much as $100 million to $275 million. Such unreserved losses are reasonably possible but are not currently considered to be probable of occurrence.   We are involved in a number of lawsuits and claims, and we may be involved in future lawsuits and claims, in which substantial monetary damages are sought.PPG is involved in a number of lawsuits and claims, both actual and potential in which substantial monetary damages are sought. Those lawsuits and claims relate to contract, patent, environmental, product liability, antitrust and other matters arising out of the conduct of PPG’s current and past business activities. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention and resources. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential claims, and the levels of insurance we do maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses. We believe that, in the aggregate, the outcome of all current lawsuits and claims involving PPG, including asbestos-related claims in the event the settlement described in Note 15, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K does not become effective, will not have a material effect on PPG’s consolidated financial position or liquidity; however, such outcome may be material to the results of operations of any particular period in which costs, if any, are recognized. Nonetheless, the results of any future litigation or claims are inherently unpredictable, but such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.For over 30 years, we have been a defendant in lawsuits involving claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos.Most of our potential exposure relates to allegations by plaintiffs that PPG should be liable for injuries involving asbestos containing thermal insulation products manufactured by Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (“PC”). PPG is a 50% shareholder of PC. Although we have entered into a settlement arrangement with several parties concerning these asbestos claims as discussed in Note 15, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, the arrangement remains subject to court proceedings and, if not approved, the outcome could be material to the results of operations of any particular period.We are subject to a variety of complex U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations which could increase our compliance costs.We are subject to a wide variety of complex U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, environmental laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, U.S. and foreign export and trading laws, and laws governing improper business practices, including bribery. We are affected by new laws and regulations and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. These laws and regulations effectively expand our compliance obligations and potential enforcement actions by governmental authorities or litigation related to them.New laws and regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their interpretation could increase our compliance costs. For example, regulations concerning the composition, use and transport of chemical products continue to evolve. Developments concerning these regulations could 142012 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-KTable of Contentspotentially impact (i) the availability or viability of some of the raw materials we use in our product formulations and/or (ii) our ability to supply certain products to some customers or markets. Import/export regulations also continue to evolve and could result in increased compliance costs, slower product movements or additional complexity in our supply chains.Our international operations expose us to additional risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results.PPG has a significant investment in non-U.S. operations. This broad geographic footprint serves to lessen the significance of economic impacts occurring in any one region. Notwithstanding the benefits of geographic diversification, our ability to achieve and maintain profitable growth in international markets is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many countries. As a result of our expansion outside the U.S., we are subject to certain inherent risks, including political and economic uncertainty, inflation rates, exchange rates, trade protection measures, local labor conditions and laws, restrictions on foreign investments and repatriation of earnings, and weak intellectual property protection. Our percentage of sales generated in 2012 by products sold outside the U.S. was approximately 57%.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our financial results.We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. We use derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations related to foreign currency transactions. However, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, could materially affect our financial results.As a producer of coatings and specialty materials, we manufacture and transport certain materials that are inherently hazardous due to their toxic nature. We have significant experience in handling these materials and take precautions to handle and transport them in a safe manner. However, these materials, if mishandled or released into the environment, could cause substantial property damage or personal injuries resulting in significant legal claims against us. The separation of the commodity chemicals business on January 28, 2013, significantly reduces the volumes of these materials that we handle and transport.Business disruptions could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Unexpected events, including supply disruptions, temporary plant and/or power outages, work stoppages, natural disasters and severe weather events, computer system disruptions, fires, war or terrorist activities, could increase the  cost of doing business or otherwise harm the operations of PPG, our customers and our suppliers. It is not possible for us to predict the occurrence or consequence of any such events. However, such events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to receive raw materials from suppliers or to deliver products to customers.We may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses.In the past 15 years, PPG has completed over 50 acquisitions to further the growth of the Company, and we will likely acquire additional businesses and enter into additional joint ventures in the future as part of our growth strategy.  Of particular note, PPG agreed in December 2012 to purchase the North American architectural coatings business of Akzo Nobel N.V.  Upon closing, this acquisition will add approximately 600 stores and eight manufacturing facilities to PPG's North American coatings operations. Growth through acquisitions and the formation of joint ventures involve risks, including:•difficulties in assimilating acquired companies and products into our existing business;•delays in realizing the benefits from the acquired companies or products;•diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns;•difficulties due to lack of or limited prior experience in any new markets we may enter;•unforeseen claims and liabilities, including unexpected environmental exposures or product liability;•unexpected losses of customers or suppliers of the acquired or existing business;•difficulty in conforming the acquired business’ standards, processes, procedures and controls to those of our operations; and•difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired businesses.Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and joint ventures could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or joint ventures and could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.Item 1B