Item 1A.
Risk Factors  As a global manufacturer of coatings, chemicals and glass products, we operate in a business environment that
includes risks. These risks are not unlike the risks we have faced in the recent past. Each of the risks described in this section could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and liquidity. While the factors listed here are
considered to be the more significant factors, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles which may adversely affect our
business.    Increases in prices and declines
in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results.  Our financial results are
significantly affected by the cost of raw materials and energy, including natural gas. Changes in natural gas prices have a significant impact on the financial performance of our Commodity Chemicals and Glass businesses. Each one-dollar change in
our unit cost of natural gas per million British Thermal Units (“mmbtu”) has a direct impact of approximately $60 million to $70 million on our annual operating costs. In 2010, our natural gas costs on average decreased almost 12% in the
U.S. compared to 2009 levels. Year-over-year coatings raw material costs increased approximately $210 million following a decline of approximately $150 million in 2009. This increase in costs, which was partially linked to increased oil prices later
in 2010, was driven by stronger emerging region demand, supply disruptions and lack of increased supplier capacity. Increases occurred in all regions of the world, with the most significant impact in North America and Europe. 
  We also import raw materials and intermediates, particularly
for use at our manufacturing facilities in the emerging regions of the world. In most cases, those imports are priced in the currency of the supplier and, therefore, if that currency strengthens against the currency of our manufacturing facility,
our margins are at risk of being lowered.   
Additionally, certain raw materials are critical to our production processes. These include titanium dioxide, solvents and epoxy and other
resins in the Coatings businesses; lenses, sand and soda ash in the Optical and Specialty Materials businesses; brine and ethylene in the Commodity Chemicals business; and sand, clay and soda ash in the Glass businesses. We have made, and plan to
continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. However, an inability to obtain these critical raw materials would adversely impact our ability to produce products and an increase in raw material and
energy prices would increase our costs.   
The lingering effects of the global recession in certain end-use markets could continue to have a negative impact on our results of
operations and cash flows.  During the fourth quarter of 2008, the demand for many of our products in Europe, Asia and
Latin America declined significantly as the impact of the recession, which had impacted demand throughout 2008 in the U.S. and U.K. economies, spread globally. Many global industrial end-markets remained depressed for most of 2009. The impact of the
recession was felt by all of our businesses but most noticeably by those businesses serving the automotive original equipment, construction, residential and general industrial markets. During 2010, the global economy began to mend; however, the pace
of recovery was uneven. Emerging economies rapidly returned to prerecession levels 
  







10
 
2010 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K




Table of Contents

 
while volume recovery in developed regions was more gradual. There was also a contrast in the various end-use markets with global industrial end-use markets demonstrating a rapid and consistent
recovery while construction markets, particularly commercial and residential, in the developed regions and parts of Eastern Europe remained depressed. The outlook for 2011 reflects expectations for the economic recovery to strengthen and broaden.
The growth rate in emerging regions is expected to moderate somewhat but still easily outpace developed regions. It is anticipated that the North American recovery will continue with higher industrial activity and modest improvement in construction
markets. The recovery rate in Europe is expected to once again lag that of Asia, Latin America and North America, as export growth moderates and further effects are realized from 2010 austerity measures put in place to ease concerns over European
governmental debt loads. Construction markets in Western and Eastern Europe are forecasted to improve only slightly in 2011. It is anticipated that global industrial activity will grow, but at a slower rate than 2010 in many industries. Remaining at
the current low activity levels in the commercial and residential construction markets of the developed regions and Eastern Europe would continue to result in low demand for many of our products that serve these markets and keep credit risk exposure
elevated from customers most impacted by these industries. The extent of or the sustainability of the recovery in the global economy or which end-use markets and developed regions will rebound in 2011 is not known. 
  We experience substantial competition from certain
low-cost regions.  Our flat glass and fiber glass businesses are subject to competition from companies in certain
regions of the world, including Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, where labor costs are lower than those in the U.S. This could result in lower selling prices or reduced demand for some of our flat glass and fiber glass products. 
  We are subject to existing and evolving standards
relating to the protection of the environment.  We have accrued $272 million for estimated environmental
remediation costs that are probable at December 31, 2010. Our assessment of the potential impact of these environmental contingencies is subject to considerable uncertainty due to the complex, ongoing and evolving process of investigation and
remediation, if necessary, of such environmental contingencies, and the potential for technological and regulatory developments. As such, in addition to the amounts currently reserved, we may be subject to loss contingencies related to environmental
matters estimated to be as much as $200 million to $400 million which is a change from the previously reported range of $200 million to $300 million. This change in estimate relates principally to the cost of New Jersey Chrome and legacy glass
manufacturing site remediation. Such unreserved losses are reasonably possible but are not currently considered to be probable of occurrence.   
We are involved in a number of lawsuits and claims, both actual and potential, in which substantial monetary damages are sought.
 The results of any future litigation or settlement of such lawsuits and claims are inherently unpredictable, but such
outcomes could be adverse and material in amount.   
For over 30 years, we have been a defendant in lawsuits involving claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos.
 Most of our potential exposure relates to allegations by plaintiffs that PPG should be liable for injuries involving
asbestos containing thermal insulation products manufactured by Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (“PC”). PPG is a 50% shareholder of PC. Although we have entered into a settlement arrangement with several parties concerning these asbestos
claims as discussed in Note 16, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, the arrangement remains subject to court proceedings and, if not approved, the outcome could be material to the results of
operations of any particular period.    Our
products are subject to existing and evolving regulations.  Regulations concerning the composition and use of chemical
products continue to evolve. Developments concerning these regulations could potentially impact (i) the availability or viability of some of the raw materials we use in our product formulations and/or (ii) our ability to supply certain
products to some customers or markets. Import/export regulations also continue to evolve and could result in increased costs, slower product movements or additional complexity in our supply chains. 
  Our international operations expose us to additional
risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results.  PPG has a significant investment in non-U.S.
operations. This broad geographic footprint serves to lessen the significance of economic impacts occurring in any one region. As a result of our expansion outside the U.S., we are subject to certain inherent risks, including economic and political
conditions in the international markets and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our percentage of sales generated in 2010 by products sold in developing regions, including Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America
was 27%.    As a producer of commodity
chemicals, we manufacture and transport certain materials that are inherently hazardous due to their toxic nature.  We
have significant experience in handling these materials and take precautions to handle and transport them in a safe manner. However, these materials, if mishandled or released into the environment, could cause substantial property damage or personal
injuries resulting in significant legal claims against us. In addition, evolving regulations concerning the security of chemical production facilities and 
  









2010 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K
 
 
11
  




Table of Contents

 
the transportation of hazardous chemicals could result in increased future capital or operating costs.   
Business disruptions could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 
Unexpected events, including supply disruptions, temporary plant and/or power outages, natural disasters and severe weather events, fires,
war or terrorist activities, could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise harm the operations of PPG, our customers and our suppliers. It is not possible for us to predict the occurrence or consequence of any such events. However, such
events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to receive raw materials from suppliers or to deliver products to customers. 
  Item 1B