Item 1A. Risk Factors" and in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this Annual Report, the following are among the important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.

 


·challenges by intervenors to the return on equity granted in existing rate structures;


·fuel supply, cost and availability;


·continuing ability to recover fuel costs and environmental expenditures in a timely manner at LG&E and KU, and natural
gas supply costs at LG&E;


·weather conditions affecting generation, transmission and distribution operations and customer energy use;


·availability and operating costs of existing generation facilities;


·the duration of and cost associated with scheduled and unscheduled outages at our generating facilities;


·generation, transmission and distribution system conditions and operating costs;


·expansion of alternative and distributed sources of electricity generation and storage;


·collective labor bargaining negotiations;


·laws or regulations to reduce emissions of "greenhouse" gases or the physical effects of climate change;


·the outcome of litigation against the Registrants and their subsidiaries;


·potential effects of threatened or actual terrorism, war or other hostilities, cyber-based intrusions or natural disasters;


·the commitments and liabilities of the Registrants and their subsidiaries;


·the effectiveness of our risk management programs, including foreign currency and interest rate hedging;


·our ability to attract and retain qualified employees;


·volatility in demand for electricity;


·market prices of commodity inputs for ongoing capital expenditures or key operational needs;


·capital market conditions, including the availability of capital or credit, changes in interest rates and certain economic
indices, and decisions regarding capital structure;


·stock price performance of PPL;


·defaults by counterparties or suppliers for energy, capacity, coal, natural gas or key commodities, goods or services;


·volatility in the fair value of debt and equity securities and its impact on the value of assets in defined benefit plans,
and the potential cash funding requirements if fair value declines;


·interest rates and their effect on pension and retiree medical liabilities and interest payable on certain debt securities;


·volatility in or the impact of other changes in financial markets and economic conditions;


·new accounting requirements or new interpretations or applications of existing requirements;


·changes in securities and credit ratings;


·changes in foreign currency exchange rates for British pound sterling;


·the effect of changes in RPI on WPD's revenues;


·current and future environmental conditions, regulations and other requirements and the related costs of compliance, including
environmental capital expenditures, emission allowance costs and other expenses;


·changes in political, regulatory or economic conditions in states, regions or countries where the Registrants or their subsidiaries
conduct business;


·receipt of necessary governmental permits, approvals and rate relief;


·new state, federal or foreign legislation or regulatory developments;


·the outcome of any rate cases or other cost recovery or revenue filings by PPL Electric, LG&E, KU or WPD;


·the achievement of performance targets set by regulators;


·the impact of any state, federal or foreign investigations applicable to the Registrants and their subsidiaries and the energy
industry;


·the effect of any business or industry restructuring;


·development of new projects, markets and technologies;


·performance of new ventures; and


·business dispositions or acquisitions and our ability to realize expected benefits from such business transactions.

 

Any such forward-looking statements should be considered in
light of such important factors and in conjunction with other documents of the Registrants on file with the SEC.



    1 
     Table of Contents 
    

 

New factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those described in forward-looking statements emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Registrants to predict
all such factors, or the extent to which any such factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ from those
contained in any forward-looking statement. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is
made, and the Registrants undertake no obligation to update the information contained in such statement to reflect subsequent developments
or information.



    2 
     Table of Contents 
    

PART I

 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

 

General

 

(All Registrants)

 

PPL Corporation, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania,
is a utility holding company that was incorporated in 1994. PPL, through its regulated utility subsidiaries, delivers electricity
to customers in the U.K., Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee; delivers natural gas to customers in Kentucky; and generates
electricity from power plants in Kentucky. In June 2014, PPL and PPL Energy Supply executed definitive agreements with affiliates
of Riverstone to combine their competitive power generation businesses into a new, stand-alone, publicly traded company named Talen
Energy. The transaction was completed on June 1, 2015. See "Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply" below for more information.

 

PPL's principal subsidiaries at December 31, 2015 are shown
below (* denotes a Registrant).

 



     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    PPL Corporation*
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    
        PPL Capital Funding
        ●
        Provides financing for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries
     
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
    
        PPL Global
        ●
        Engages in the regulated distribution of electricity in the U.K.
     
     
    
        LKE*
         
     
     
    
        PPL Electric*
        ●
        Engages in the regulated transmission and distribution of electricity in Pennsylvania
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
     
     
     
    
        LG&E*
        ●
        Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas
        in Kentucky
     
     
    
        KU*
        ●
        Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity, primarily in Kentucky
     
     
     
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
    U.K. 
Regulated Segment
     
     
    Kentucky 
Regulated Segment
     
     
    Pennsylvania
Regulated Segment
     

 

In addition to PPL, the other Registrants included in this filing
are as follows.

 

PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, headquartered in
Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a direct wholly owned subsidiary of PPL incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1920 and a regulated public
utility that is an electricity transmission and distribution service provider in eastern and central Pennsylvania. PPL Electric
is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction
of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. PPL Electric delivers electricity in its Pennsylvania service area and provides electricity
supply to retail customers in that area as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act.

 

LG&E and KU Energy LLC, headquartered in Louisville,
Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL and a holding company that owns regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries,
LG&E and KU, which constitute substantially all of LKE's assets. LG&E and KU are engaged in the generation, transmission,
distribution and sale of electricity. LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas. LG&E and KU maintain
separate corporate identities and serve customers in Kentucky under their respective names. KU also serves customers in Virginia
under the Old Dominion Power name and in Tennessee under the KU name. LKE, formed in 2003, is the successor to a Kentucky entity
incorporated in 1989.

 

Louisville Gas and Electric Company, headquartered in
Louisville, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution
and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. LG&E is subject to regulation as a public utility
by the KPSC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act.
LG&E was incorporated in 1913.

 



    3 
     Table of Contents 
    

Kentucky Utilities Company, headquartered in Lexington,
Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and
sale of electricity in Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee. KU is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC, the VSCC
and the TRA, and certain of its transmission and wholesale power activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the
Federal Power Act. KU serves its Virginia customers under the Old Dominion Power name and its Kentucky and Tennessee customers
under the KU name. KU was incorporated in Kentucky in 1912 and in Virginia in 1991.

 

(PPL)

 

Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply

 

In recognition of the changes in recent years in the wholesale
power markets, PPL performed an in-depth analysis of its business mix to determine the best available opportunities to maximize
the value to shareowners of its competitive generation business. As a result, in June 2014, PPL and PPL Energy Supply executed
definitive agreements with affiliates of Riverstone to spin off PPL Energy Supply and immediately combine it with Riverstone's
competitive power generation businesses to form a new, stand-alone, publicly traded company named Talen Energy. The transaction
was subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals from the NRC, FERC, DOJ and PUC, all of
which were received by mid-April 2015. On April 29, 2015, PPL's Board of Directors declared the June 1, 2015 distribution to PPL's
shareowners of record on May 20, 2015 of a newly formed entity, Holdco, which at closing owned all of the membership interests
of PPL Energy Supply and all of the common stock of Talen Energy.

 

Immediately following the spinoff on June 1, 2015, Holdco merged
with a special purpose subsidiary of Talen Energy, with Holdco continuing as the surviving company to the merger and as a wholly
owned subsidiary of Talen Energy and the sole owner of PPL Energy Supply. Substantially contemporaneous with the spinoff and merger,
RJS Power was contributed by its owners to become a subsidiary of Talen Energy. PPL's shareowners received approximately 0.1249
shares of Talen Energy common stock for each share of PPL common stock they owned on May 20, 2015. Following completion of these
transactions, PPL shareowners owned 65% of Talen Energy and affiliates of Riverstone owned 35%. The spinoff had no effect on the
number of PPL common shares owned by PPL shareowners or the number of shares of PPL common stock outstanding. The transaction is
intended to be tax-free to PPL and its shareowners for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

 

PPL has no continuing ownership interest in, control of, or
affiliation with Talen Energy and Talen Energy Supply (formerly PPL Energy Supply).

 

See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

 

Acquisitions

 

On April 1, 2011, PPL, through an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary,
PPL WEM Limited, acquired all of the outstanding ordinary share capital of Central Networks East plc and Central Networks Limited,
the sole owner of Central Networks West plc, together with certain other related assets and liabilities (collectively referred
to as Central Networks and subsequently defined herein as WPD Midlands), from subsidiaries of E.ON AG. WPD Midlands operates two
regulated distribution networks in the Midlands area of England and is included in the U.K. Regulated segment.

 

Segment Information

 

(PPL)

 

PPL is organized into three reportable segments as depicted
in the chart above: U.K. Regulated, Kentucky Regulated, and Pennsylvania Regulated. The U.K. Regulated segment has no related Subsidiary
Registrants. PPL's other reportable segments primarily reflect the activities of its related Subsidiary Registrants, except that
the reportable segments are also allocated certain corporate level financing and other costs that are not included in the results
of the applicable Subsidiary Registrants. As a result of the June 1, 2015 spinoff of PPL Energy Supply, PPL no longer has a Supply
segment.



    4 
     Table of Contents 
    

 

 



    A comparison of PPL's three regulated segments is shown below:

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
    Kentucky
     
    Pennsylvania

     
     
     
    U.K. Regulated
     
    Regulated 
     
    Regulated 

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

    For the year ended December 31, 2015:
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
    Operating Revenues (in billions)
     
    $
    2.4
     
    $
    3.1
     
    $
    2.1

     
    Net Income (in millions)
     
    $
    1,121
     
    $
    326
     
    $
    252

     
    Electricity delivered (GWh)
     
     
    75,907
     
     
    30,814
     
     
    36,984

    At December 31, 2015:
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
    Regulatory Asset Base (in billions) (a)
     
    $
    9.7
     
    $
    8.7
     
    $
    5.2

     
    Service area (in square miles)
     
     
    21,600
     
     
    9,400
     
     
    10,000

     
    End-users (in millions)
     
     
    7.8
     
     
    1.3
     
     
    1.4

 


(a)Represents RAV for U.K. Regulated, capitalization for Kentucky Regulated and rate base for Pennsylvania Regulated.

 

See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for additional financial
information about the segments.

 

(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)

 

PPL Electric has two operating segments that are aggregated
into a single reportable segment.  LKE, LG&E and KU each operate within a single operating segment.

 



    ·
    U.K. Regulated Segment (PPL)

     
     

     
    Consists of PPL Global which primarily includes WPD's regulated electricity distribution operations, the results of hedging the translation of WPD's earnings from British pound sterling into U.S. dollars, and certain costs, such as U.S. income taxes, administrative costs and allocated financing costs.

 

WPD, through indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, operates four
of the 15 regulated distribution networks providing electricity service in the U.K. The number of network customers (end-users)
served by WPD totals 7.8 million across 21,600 square miles in south Wales and southwest and central England.

 

Revenues for the years ended December 31 are shown below.

 



     
     
    2015
     
    2014
     
    2013

    Operating Revenues
     
    $
    2,410
     
    $
    2,621
     
    $
    2,403

 

The majority of WPD's operating
revenue is known as DUoS and is generated by providing regulated electricity distribution services to licensed third party energy
suppliers who pay WPD for the use of WPD's distribution network to transfer electricity to the suppliers' customers, the end-users.
Throughout the following discussion, the use of the term "customers" refers to the end-users of WPD's regulated distribution
networks.

 



     
    Franchise and Licenses

 

The operations of WPD's principal subsidiaries, WPD (South West),
WPD (South Wales), WPD (East Midlands) and WPD (West Midlands), are regulated by Ofgem under the direction of the Gas and Electricity
Markets Authority. The Electricity Act 1989 provides the fundamental framework of electricity companies and established licenses
that require each of the DNOs to develop, maintain and operate efficient distribution networks. WPD operates under a regulatory
year that begins April 1 and ends March 31 of each year.

 

WPD is authorized by Ofgem to provide electricity distribution
services within its concession areas and service territories, subject to certain conditions and obligations. For instance, WPD
is subject to Ofgem regulation with respect to the regulated revenue it can earn and the quality of service it must provide, and
WPD can be fined or have its licenses revoked if it does not meet the mandated standard of service.

 

Ofgem has formal powers to propose modifications to each distribution
license. In January 2014, Ofgem and WPD agreed to a reduction of £5 per residential end-user in the 2014/15 regulatory year
to be recovered in the 2016/2017 regulatory year. See "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Distribution Revenue Reduction" for additional information. Ofgem has made
license changes as part of the RIIO-ED1 process discussed below.



    5 
     Table of Contents 
    

 



     
    Competition

 

Although WPD operates in non-exclusive concession areas in the
U.K., it currently faces little competition with respect to end-users connected to its network. WPD's four distribution businesses
are, therefore, regulated monopolies which operate under regulatory price controls.

 



     
    Revenue and Regulation

 

Ofgem has adopted a price control mechanism that establishes
the amount of base demand revenue WPD can earn, subject to certain true-ups, and provides for an increase or reduction in revenues
based on incentives or penalties for exceeding or underperforming relative to pre-established targets. WPD's allowed revenue primarily
includes base demand revenue, incentive adjustments, adjustments for over or under-recovery and adjustments related to the DPCR4
line loss close out.

 

WPD is currently operating under the eight-year price control
period of RIIO-ED1, which commenced on April 1, 2015. The RIIO framework is intended to:


·encourage DNOs to deliver safe, reliable and sustainable network service at long-term value to customers;


·enable DNOs to finance the required investment in a timely and efficient way;


·remunerate DNOs according to their delivery for customers;


·increase emphasis on outputs and incentives;


·enhance stakeholder engagement including network customers;


·provide a stronger incentive framework to encourage more efficient investment and innovation; and


·replace the current Low Carbon Network Fund to continue to stimulate innovation.

 

Additionally, from a financial perspective the RIIO framework:


·regulates revenues for the DNOs in real terms using 2012/2013 prices;


·inflates RAV (therefore allowed revenues) and other revenue components using the RPI since March 31, 2013;


·splits the recovery of Totex between immediate recovery (called "fast pot") and deferred recovery as an addition
to the RAV (called "slow pot");


·provides DNOs with a pass-through for costs the DNOs have no control over (i.e., Ofgem fees, National Grid transmission charges,
property taxes and corporate income taxes);


·extends the recovery period of depreciation of RAV additions after April 1, 2015 from a 20 year life as used under DPCR5 to
45 years, with a transitional arrangement that will gradually increase the asset life for new additions over the price control
period resulting in an average life of approximately 35 years for RAV additions during RIIO-ED1. The RAV as of March 31, 2015 will
continue to be depreciated over 20 years. The asset lives used to determine depreciation expense for U.S. GAAP purposes are not
the same as those used for the depreciation of the RAV in setting revenues, and as such vary by asset type and are based on the
expected useful lives of the assets;


·provides the DNOs the ability to be fast-tracked through the regulatory approval process, providing a fast-track incentive
of 2.5% of Totex during the 8-year price control period for successful DNOs; and


·maintains an incentive scheme for DNOs to be rewarded or penalized for performance in the areas of reliability and customer
satisfaction, but places a maximum cap on the amount of incentive revenues that can be earned by a DNO.

 

The key components of WPD's four RIIO-ED1 business plans accepted
by Ofgem are:


·all four DNO business plans were accepted for fast-track status (fast-track incentive is worth approximately $43 million annually
for WPD assuming a $1.60/£ foreign currency exchange rate);


·WPD received a higher level of cost savings retention, which was established at 70% for WPD compared to approximately 55% for
slow-tracked DNOs;


·a cost of debt recovery comprised of a 10-year trailing average debt allowance, to be adjusted annually, compared to a transition
to a 20-year trailing average for the slow tracked DNOs applied to 65% of RAV;


·a return on regulatory equity (RORE) allowance with an equity ratio of 35% of RAV and a cost of equity rate of 6.4% compared
to 6.0% for slow-tracked DNOs;


·a Totex split of 80% slow pot and 20% fast pot;


·recovery of approximately 80% of pension deficit funding for certain of WPD's defined benefit pension plans; and


·incentive targets that are significantly more stringent than those set under DPCR5, thus reducing the expected incentive revenues
WPD can earn in RIIO-ED1 compared to DPCR5.

 

WPD's combined business plans include funding for total expenditures
of approximately $20.4 billion over the eight-year period (assuming a $1.60/£ foreign currency exchange rate), broken down
as follows:



    6 
     Table of Contents 
    


·Totex - $13.5 billion ($10.8 billion additions to RAV; $2.7 billion fast pot);


·Pension deficit funding - $2.0 billion;


·Cost of debt recovery - $1.6 billion;


·Property taxes, Ofgem fees and National Grid transmissions charges - $2.6 billion; and


·Corporate income taxes recovery - $700 million.

 

The U.K. regulatory structure is an incentive-based structure
in contrast to the typical U.S. regulatory structure which operates on a cost-recovery model. The base demand revenue that a DNO
can earn in each year of the current price control period is the sum of:


·a return on capital from RAV;


·a return of capital from RAV (i.e. depreciation);


·the fast pot recovery;


·pension deficit funding;


·an allowance for cash taxes paid less a potential reduction for tax benefits from excess leverage if a DNO is levered more
than 65% Debt/RAV;


·certain pass-through costs over which the DNO has no control;


·certain legacy price control adjustments from preceding price control periods, including the information quality incentive
(also known as the rolling RAV incentive);


·fast track incentive - as WPD's four DNOs were fast-tracked through the price control review process for RIIO-ED1, their base
demand revenue also includes the fast-track incentive discussed above;


·profiling adjustments - these adjustments do not affect the total base demand revenue in real terms over the eight-year price
control period, but change the year in which the revenue is earned;


·adjustments from the Annual Iteration Process (AIP), discussed further below; and


·adjustments for inflation true-ups, discussed further below.

 

In addition to base demand revenue, WPD's allowed revenue primarily
includes:


·an increase or reduction in revenues based on incentives or penalties for actual performance against pre-established targets;


·adjustments for over- or under-recovery of allowed revenue; and


·a reduction in revenue related to the DPCR4 line loss close out.

 

During DPCR5, the prior price control review period, WPD's total
base demand revenue for the five-year period was profiled in a manner that resulted in a weighted-average increase of about 5.5%
per year for all four DNOs. In the first year of RIIO-ED1, base demand revenue decreased by about 11.8% primarily due to a change
in the profiling approach and a lower weighted-average cost of capital. For each regulatory year thereafter for the remainder of
RIIO-ED1, base demand revenue will increase by approximately 1% per annum before inflation.

 

As the regulatory model is incentive based rather than a cost
recovery model, WPD is not subject to accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP. Therefore,
the accounting treatment of adjustments to base demand revenue and/or allowed revenue is evaluated based on revenue recognition
and contingency accounting guidance.

 

Base Demand Revenue True-up Mechanisms

Unlike prior price control reviews, base demand revenue under
RIIO-ED1 will be adjusted during the price control period. The most significant of those adjustments are:

 


·Inflation True-Up - The base demand revenue for the RIIO-ED1 period was set in 2012/13 prices. Therefore an inflation factor
as determined by forecasted RPI, provided by HM Treasury, is applied to base demand revenue. Forecasted RPI is trued up to actuals
and affects future base demand revenue two regulatory years later. This revenue change is called the "TRU" adjustment.
The projected TRU for the 2015/16 regulatory year is a $45 million reduction to revenue and will reduce base demand revenue in
calendar years 2017 and 2018 by $30 million and $15 million, respectively.

 


·Annual Iteration Process - The RIIO-ED1 price control period also includes an Annual Iteration Process (AIP). This will allow
future base demand revenues agreed with the regulator as part of the price control review to be updated during the price control
period for financial adjustments including tax, pensions and cost of debt, legacy price control adjustments from preceding price
control periods and adjustments relating to actual and allowed total expenditure together with the Totex Incentive Mechanism (TIM).
Under the TIM, WPD's DNOs are able to retain 70% of any amounts not spent against the RIIO-ED1 plan and bear 70% of any over-spends.
The AIP calculates an



    7 
     Table of Contents 
    

incremental change to base demand revenue, known as
the "MOD" adjustment. The MOD provided by Ofgem in November 2016 will include the TIM for the 2015/16 regulatory year
as well as the cost of debt calculation based on the 10-year trailing average to October 2016. This projected MOD of $11 million
will reduce base demand revenue for calendar years 2017 and 2018 by $5 million and $6 million, respectively.

 

As both MOD and TRU are changes to future base demand revenues
as determined by Ofgem, under applicable GAAP, liabilities for these adjustments have not been recorded. PPL's projected earnings
per share growth rate through 2017 includes both the estimated TRU for regulatory year 2015/16 and MOD.

 

Allowed Revenue Components

In addition to base demand revenue, certain other items are
added or subtracted to arrive at allowed revenue. The most significant of these are discussed below.

 

Incentives - Ofgem has established incentive mechanisms to provide
significant opportunities to enhance overall returns by improving network efficiency, reliability and customer service. Some of
the more significant incentive mechanisms which may affect allowed revenue include:

 


·Interruptions Incentive Scheme (IIS) - This incentive has two major components: (1) Customer interruptions (CIs) and (2) Customer
minutes lost (CMLs), and both are designed to incentivize the DNOs to invest and operate their networks to manage and reduce both
the frequency and duration of power outages. The IIS target under RIIO-ED1 is divided into interruptions caused by planned and
unplanned work. The target for planned work will be calculated as the annual average level of planned interruptions and minutes
lost over a previous three year period. The target for unplanned interruptions for the first year of RIIO-ED1 is specified in the
DNOs license and targets for both the CIs and CMLs become more demanding each year.

 


·In addition to the IIS, the broad measure of customer service is enhanced in RIIO-ED1. This broad measure encompasses:


·customer satisfaction in supply interruptions, connections and general inquiries;


·complaints;


·stakeholder engagement; and


·delivery of social obligations.

 

The following table shows the amount of incentive revenue, primarily
from IIS, which WPD has earned during DPCR5:

 



     
     
    Incentive Earned
     
    Regulatory Year Ended Incentive

    Regulatory Year Ended
     
    (in millions)
     
    Included in Revenue

     
     
     
     
     
     

    March 2011
     
    $
    30
     
    March 2013

    March 2012
     
     
    83
     
    March 2014

    March 2013
     
     
    104
     
    March 2015

    March 2014
     
     
    125
     
    March 2016

    March 2015
     
     
    136
     
    March 2017

 

Based on applicable GAAP, incentive revenues are not recorded
as assets and are included in revenues when they are billed to customers.

 

DPCR4 Line Loss Adjustment

For regulatory years 2015/16 through 2018/19 allowed revenue
will also be reduced to reflect Ofgem's final decision on the DPCR4 line loss incentives and penalties mechanism. WPD has a liability
recorded related to this future revenue reduction and, therefore, this will not impact future earnings. See Note 6 to the Financial
Statements for additional information.

 

Correction Factor

During the price control period, WPD's revenue is decoupled
from volume and WPD sets its tariffs to recover allowed revenue. However, in any fiscal period, WPD's revenue could be negatively
affected if its tariffs and the volume delivered do not fully recover the allowed revenue for a particular period. Conversely,
WPD could also over-recover revenue. Over and under-recoveries are subtracted from or added to allowed revenue in future years,
known as the "Correction Factor" or "K-factor." Over and under-recovered amounts arising from 2014/15 onwards
and refunded/recovered under RIIO-ED1 will be refunded/recovered on a two year lag (previously one year). Therefore the 2014/15
over/under-recovery adjustment will occur in 2016/17. In 2016/17 under this mechanism, WPD will recover the £5 per residential
network customer reduction



    8 
     Table of Contents 
    

given through reduced tariffs in 2014/15 (approximately $56
million) as that amount is currently considered an under-recovery.

 

Historically, tariffs have been set a minimum of three months
prior to the beginning of the regulatory year (April 1). In February 2015, Ofgem determined that, beginning for the 2017/18 regulatory
year, tariffs would be established a minimum of fifteen months in advance. Therefore, in December 2015, WPD was required to establish
tariffs for 2016/17 and 2017/18. This change will potentially increase volatility in future revenue forecasts due to the need to
forecast components of allowed revenue including MOD, TRU, K-factor and incentive revenues.

 

Under applicable GAAP, WPD does not record a receivable for
under-recoveries, but does record a liability for over-recoveries. K-factor is measured as of the end of the regulatory year, March
31. While WPD estimates over-recoveries and records a liability when it is probable that there will be an over-recovered position
at the end of the regulatory-year, weather-related volume changes and other factors such as sales mix can affect the over or under-recovery
between the end of PPL's calendar year and the end of the regulatory year.

 

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to U.K. Regulated
Segment" for additional information on the risks associated with the U.K. Regulated Segment.

 



     
    Customers

 

WPD provides regulated electricity distribution services to
licensed third party energy suppliers (its customers) who use WPD's networks to transfer electricity to their customers, the end-users.
WPD bills the energy supplier for this service and the supplier is responsible for billing the end-users. Ofgem requires that all
licensed electricity distributors and suppliers become parties to the Distribution Connection and Use of System Agreement. This
agreement specifies how creditworthiness will be determined and, as a result, whether the supplier needs to collateralize its payment
obligations.

 



    ·
    Kentucky Regulated Segment (PPL)

     
     

     
    Consists of the operations of LKE, which owns and operates regulated public utilities engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas, representing primarily the activities of LG&E and KU.  In addition, certain financing costs are allocated to the Kentucky Regulated segment.  

 

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

 

LG&E and KU, direct subsidiaries of LKE, are engaged in
the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and, in KU's case, Virginia and Tennessee.
LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. LG&E provides electric service to approximately
403,000 customers in Louisville and adjacent areas in Kentucky, covering approximately 700 square miles in nine counties and provides
natural gas service to approximately 322,000 customers in its electric service area and eight additional counties in Kentucky.
KU provides electric service to approximately 518,000 customers in 77 counties in central, southeastern and western Kentucky, approximately
28,000 customers in five counties in southwestern Virginia, and fewer than ten customers in Tennessee, covering approximately 4,800
non-contiguous square miles. KU also sells wholesale electricity to 11 municipalities in Kentucky under load following contracts.
In Virginia, KU operates under the name Old Dominion Power Company.

 

Details of operating revenues by customer class for the years
ended December 31 are shown below.

 



     
     
    2015
     
    2014
     
    2013

     
     
     
     
     
    % of
     
     
     
     
    % of
     
     
     
     
    % of

     
     
    Revenue
     
    Revenue
     
    Revenue
     
    Revenue
     
    Revenue
     
    Revenue

    LKE
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

    Commercial
     
    $
    816
     
     
    26
     
    $
    815
     
     
    26
     
    $
    770
     
     
    26

    Industrial
     
     
    628
     
     
    20
     
     
    627
     
     
    20
     
     
    587
     
     
    20

    Residential
     
     
    1,245
     
     
    40
     
     
    1,281
     
     
    40
     
     
    1,205
     
     
    40

    Retail - other
     
     
    267
     
     
    9
     
     
    279
     
     
    9
     
     
    260
     
     
    9

    Wholesale - municipal
     
     
    114
     
     
    4
     
     
    109
     
     
    3
     
     
    110
     
     
    4

    Wholesale - other (a)
     
     
    45
     
     
    1
     
     
    57
     
     
    2
     
     
    44
     
     
    1

    Total
     
    $
    3,115
     
     
    100
     
    $
    3,168
     
     
    100
     
    $
    2,976
     
     
    100

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     



    9 
     Table of Contents 
    

 

 



     
     
    2015
     
    2014
     
    2013

     
     
     
     
     
    % of
     
     
     
     
    % of
     
     
     
     
    % of

     
     
    Revenue
     
    Revenue
     
    Revenue
     
    Revenue
     
    Revenue
     
    Revenue

    LG&E
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

    Commercial
     
    $
    436
     
     
    30
     
    $
    433
     
     
    28
     
    $
    405
     
     
    29

    Industrial
     
     
    199
     
     
    14
     
     
    194
     
     
    13
     
     
    186
     
     
    13

    Residential
     
     
    633
     
     
    44
     
     
    650
     
     
    43
     
     
    614
     
     
    44

    Retail - other
     
     
    117
     
     
    8
     
     
    130
     
     
    8
     
     
    119
     
     
    8

    Wholesale - other (a) (b)
     
     
    59
     
     
    4
     
     
    126
     
     
    8
     
     
    86
     
     
    6

    Total
     
    $
    1,444
     
     
    100
     
    $
    1,533
     
     
    100
     
    $
    1,410
     
     
    100

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

    KU
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

    Commercial
     
    $
    380
     
     
    22
     
    $
    382
     
     
    22
     
    $
    365
     
     
    22

    Industrial
     
     
    429
     
     
    25
     
     
    433
     
     
    25
     
     
    401
     
     
    25

    Residential
     
     
    612
     
     
    35
     
     
    631
     
     
    36
     
     
    591
     
     
    36

    Retail - other
     
     
    150
     
     
    9
     
     
    149
     
     
    9
     
     
    141
     
     
    9

    Wholesale - municipal
     
     
    114
     
     
    7
     
     
    109
     
     
    6
     
     
    110
     
     
    7

    Wholesale - other (a) (b)
     
     
    43
     
     
    2
     
     
    33
     
     
    2
     
     
    27
     
     
    1

    Total
     
    $
    1,728
     
     
    100
     
    $
    1,737
     
     
    100
     
    $
    1,635
     
     
    100

 


(a)Includes wholesale power and transmission revenues.


(b)Includes intercompany power sales and transmission revenues, which are eliminated upon consolidation at LKE.

 



     
    Franchises and Licenses

 

LG&E and KU provide electricity delivery service, and LG&E
provides natural gas distribution service, in their respective service territories pursuant to certain franchises, licenses, statutory
service areas, easements and other rights or permissions granted by state legislatures, cities or municipalities or other entities. 

 



     
    Competition

 

There are currently no other electric public utilities operating
within the electric service areas of LKE. From time to time, bills are introduced into the Kentucky General Assembly which seek
to authorize, promote or mandate increased distributed generation, customer choice or other developments. Neither the Kentucky
General Assembly nor the KPSC has adopted or approved a plan or timetable for retail electric industry competition in Kentucky.
The nature or timing of legislative or regulatory actions, if any, regarding industry restructuring and their impact on LKE, which
may be significant, cannot currently be predicted. Virginia, formerly a deregulated jurisdiction, has enacted legislation that
implemented a hybrid model of cost-based regulation. KU's operations in Virginia have been and remain regulated.

 

Alternative energy sources such as electricity, oil, propane
and other fuels provide indirect competition for natural gas revenues of LKE. Marketers may also compete to sell natural gas to
certain large end-users. LG&E's natural gas tariffs include gas price pass-through mechanisms relating to its sale of natural
gas as a commodity; therefore, customer natural gas purchases from alternative suppliers do not generally impact profitability.
However, some large industrial and commercial customers may physically bypass LG&E's facilities and seek delivery service directly
from interstate pipelines or other natural gas distribution systems.

 



     
    Power Supply

 

At December 31, 2015, LKE owned, controlled or had a minority
ownership interest in generating capacity (summer rating) of 7,997 MW, of which 2,919 MW related to LG&E and 5,078 MW
related to KU, in Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio. See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for a complete list
of LKE's generating facilities.

 

The system capacity of LKE's owned or controlled generation
is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically
to reflect changes in circumstances.

 

During 2015, LKE's Kentucky power plants generated the following
amounts of electricity.

 



     
    GWh

    Fuel Source
    LKE
     
    LG&E
     
    KU

    Coal (a)
    29,609
     
    12,049
     
    17,560

    Oil / Gas
    4,792
     
    1,258
     
    3,534

    Hydro
    372
     
    274
     
    98

    Total (b)
    34,773
     
    13,581
     
    21,192

 



    10 
     Table of Contents 
    


(a)Includes 762 GWh of power generated by and purchased from OVEC for LKE, 527 GWh for LG&E and 235 GWh for KU.


(b)This generation represents a 2.4% decrease for LKE, a 13.7% decrease for LG&E and a 6.6% increase for KU from 2014 output.

 

A majority of LG&E's and KU's generated electricity was
used to supply its retail and municipal customer base.

 

LG&E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with
the lowest cost generation used to serve their retail and municipal customers. When LG&E has excess generation capacity after
serving its own retail customers and its generation cost is lower than that of KU, KU purchases electricity from LG&E. When
KU has excess generation capacity after serving its own retail and municipal customers and its generation cost is lower than that
of LG&E, LG&E purchases electricity from KU.

 

See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment"
for additional information regarding LG&E's and KU's construction of a solar generating facility at the E.W. Brown generating
site. As a result of environmental requirements, KU retired two coal-fired units, with a combined summer capacity rating of 161
MW, at the Green River plant in September 2015. LG&E retired a 240 MW coal-fired unit in March 2015 and two additional coal-fired
units, with a combined summer capacity rating of 323 MW, in June 2015 at the Cane Run plant. KU retired a 71 MW coal-fired unit
at the Tyrone plant in 2013.

 



     
    Fuel Supply 

 

Coal is expected to be the predominant fuel used by LG&E
and KU for generation for the foreseeable future. Due to Cane Run Unit 7 being placed into operation during 2015, natural gas will
play a more significant role going forward. The natural gas for this generating unit is purchased using contractual arrangements
separate from LG&E's natural gas distribution operations. Natural gas and oil will continue to be used for intermediate and
peaking capacity and flame stabilization in coal-fired boilers.

 

Fuel inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary
to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units. Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time
by a number of factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues and other supplier or transporter operating
difficulties.

 

LG&E and KU have entered into coal supply agreements with
various suppliers for coal deliveries through 2022 and normally augment their coal supply agreements with spot market purchases,
as needed.

 

For their existing units, LG&E and KU expect for the foreseeable
future to purchase most of their coal from western Kentucky, southern Indiana and southern Illinois. LG&E and KU continue to
purchase certain quantities of ultra-low sulfur content coal from Wyoming for blending at Trimble County Unit 2. Coal is delivered
to the generating plants by barge, truck and rail.

 

To enhance the reliability of natural gas supply, LG&E and
KU have secured, firm long-term pipeline capacity on the interstate pipeline serving Cane Run Unit 7 and six simple cycle combustion
turbine units located at the Trimble County site through 2024. LG&E has also secured long-term firm pipeline capacity on an
interstate pipeline for an additional simple cycle gas turbine under a power purchase agreement for the summer months through October
2018. For the seven simple cycle combustion turbines at Brown, no firm long-term pipeline capacity has been purchased due to the
facility being interconnected to multiple pipelines and some of the units having dual fuel capability.

 

Natural gas purchases for these units currently take place
as needed from pipelines but LG&E and KU may seek to augment these purchases with longer term agreements.

 

(PPL, LKE and LG&E)

 



     
    Natural Gas Distribution Supply 

 

Five underground natural gas storage fields, with a current
working natural gas capacity of approximately 15 Bcf, are used in providing natural gas service to LG&E's firm sales customers.
By using natural gas storage facilities, LG&E avoids the costs typically associated with more expensive pipeline transportation
capacity to serve peak winter heating loads. Natural gas is stored during the summer season for withdrawal during the following
winter heating season. Without this storage capacity, LG&E would be required to purchase additional natural gas and pipeline
transportation services during winter months when customer demand increases and the prices for natural gas supply and transportation
services are typically at their highest. Several suppliers under contracts of varying duration provide competitively priced natural
gas. At December 31, 2015, LG&E had 12 Bcf of natural gas stored underground with a carrying value of $42 million.

 



    11 
     Table of Contents 
    

LG&E has a portfolio of supply arrangements of varying terms
with a number of suppliers designed to meet its firm sales obligations. These natural gas supply arrangements include pricing provisions
that are market-responsive. In tandem with pipeline transportation services, these natural gas supplies provide the reliability
and flexibility necessary to serve LG&E's natural gas customers.

 

LG&E purchases natural gas supply transportation services
from two pipelines. LG&E has contracts with one pipeline that are subject to termination by LG&E between 2018 and 2021.
Total winter season capacity under these contracts is 184,900 MMBtu/day and summer season capacity is 60,000 MMBtu/day. With this
same pipeline, LG&E has two contracts with a total capacity of 10,000 MMBtu/day, during the winter season and 28,000 MMBtu/day,
during the summer season; both contracts have been terminated effective October 31, 2016. With this same pipeline, LG&E also
has a new contract for pipeline capacity commencing June 2016 through October 31, 2026, in the amount of 60,000 MMBtu/day. Additionally,
LG&E has a contract with the same pipeline for the month of January 2016 with a total capacity of 30,000 MMBtu/day. LG&E
has a single contract with a second pipeline with a total capacity of 20,000 MMBtu/day during both the winter and summer seasons
that expires October 31, 2018.

 

LG&E expects to purchase natural gas supplies for its gas
distribution operations from onshore producing regions in South Texas, East Texas, North Louisiana and Arkansas, as well as gas
originating in the Rockies, Marcellus and Utica production areas.

 

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

 



     
    Transmission

 

LG&E and KU contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority
to act as their transmission reliability coordinator and contract with TranServ International, Inc. to act as their independent
transmission operator.

 

During 2013 through 2015, LG&E and KU have submitted various
compliance filings to the FERC reflecting their participation with other utilities in the Southeastern Regional Transmission Planning
group relating to certain FERC Order 1000 requirements.  FERC Order 1000, issued in July 2011, establishes certain procedural
and substantive requirements relating to participation, cost allocation and non-incumbent developer aspects of regional and inter-regional
electric transmission planning activities. FERC approvals have been received for all but one remaining of such compliance filings. 

 



     
    Rates

 

LG&E is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC and the
FERC, and KU is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC, the FERC, the VSCC and the TRA. LG&E and KU operate under a FERC-approved
open access transmission tariff (OATT).

 

LG&E's and KU's Kentucky base rates are calculated based
on a return on capitalization (common equity, long-term debt and short-term debt) including adjustments for certain net investments
and costs recovered separately through other means. As such, LG&E and KU generally earn a return on regulatory assets in Kentucky.

 

KU's Virginia base rates are calculated based on a return on
rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions). All regulatory assets and
liabilities, except the levelized fuel factor, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the calculation of Virginia
base rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets.

 

KU's Tennessee base rates are established through approval of
the TRA and generally will follow the cost of providing service in Kentucky.

 

KU's rates to 11 municipal customers for wholesale power requirements
are calculated based on annual updates to a formula rate that utilizes a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital
less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions). All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base
utilized in the development of municipal rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets. In April 2014, nine municipalities
submitted notices of termination, under the original notice period provisions, to cease taking power under the wholesale requirements
contracts. Such terminations are to be effective in 2019, except in the case of one municipality with a 2017 effective date.

 

See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information
on cost recovery mechanisms.



    12 
     Table of Contents 
    

 

 



    ·
    Pennsylvania Regulated Segment (PPL)

     
     

     
    Consists of PPL Electric, a regulated public utility engaged in the distribution and transmission of electricity.

 

(PPL and PPL Electric) 

 

PPL Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million
customers in a 10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties of eastern and central Pennsylvania. PPL Electric also provides electricity
supply to retail customers in this area as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act.

 

Details of revenues by customer class for the years ended December
31 are shown below.

 



     
     
     
    2015
     
    2014
     
    2013

     
     
     
    Revenue
     
    % of Revenue
     
    Revenue
     
    % of Revenue
     
    Revenue
     
    % of Revenue

    Distribution
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     
    Residential
     
    $
    1,338
     
     
    63
     
    $
    1,285
     
     
    63
     
    $
    1,215
     
     
    65

     
    Industrial
     
     
    58
     
     
    3
     
     
    52
     
     
    3
     
     
    52
     
     
    3

     
    Commercial
     
     
    377
     
     
    18
     
     
    367
     
     
    18
     
     
    363
     
     
    19

     
    Other (a)
     
     
    (44)
     
     
    (2)
     
     
    5
     
     
     
     
     
    (11)
     
     
     

    Transmission
     
     
    395
     
     
    18
     
     
    335
     
     
    16
     
     
    251
     
     
    13

     
    Total
     
    $
    2,124
     
     
    100
     
    $
    2,044
     
     
    100
     
    $
    1,870
     
     
    100

 


(a)Includes regulatory over- or under-recovery reconciliation mechanisms, pole attachment revenues and street lighting, offset
by contra revenue associated with the network integration transmission service expense.

 



     
    Franchise, Licenses and Other Regulations

 

PPL Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility
service throughout its service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in corporate charters to PPL Electric
and companies which it has succeeded and as a result of certification by the PUC. PPL Electric is granted the right to enter the
streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain conditions. In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance,
resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth.

 



     
    Competition

 

Pursuant to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
and the PUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its service area. Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face
competition in its electricity distribution business. Pursuant to the Customer Choice Act, generation of electricity is a competitive
business in Pennsylvania, and PPL Electric does not own or operate any generation facilities.

 

The PPL Electric transmission business, operating under a FERC-approved
PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, is subject to competition pursuant to FERC Order 1000 from entities that are not incumbent
PJM transmission owners with respect to the construction and ownership of transmission facilities within PJM.

 



     
    Rates and Regulation

 

Transmission

 

PPL Electric's transmission facilities are within PJM, which
operates the electricity transmission network and electric energy market in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the U.S.

 

PJM serves as a FERC-approved Regional Transmission Operator
(RTO) to promote greater participation and competition in the region it serves. In addition to operating the electricity transmission
network, PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity and ancillary services. A primary objective of any RTO is to
separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market participants that buy or sell electricity in the same
markets. Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets and to receive their share of transmission revenues, but the
RTO directs the control and operation of the transmission facilities. Certain types of transmission investment are subject to competitive
processes outlined in the PJM tariff.

 



    13 
     Table of Contents 
    

As a transmission owner, PPL Electric's transmission revenues
are recovered through PJM in accordance with a FERC approved tariff that allows recovery of incurred transmission costs, a return
on transmission-related plant and an automatic annual update based on a formula rate mechanism. As a PLR, PPL Electric also purchases
transmission services from PJM. See "PLR" below.

 

See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information
on rate mechanisms.

 

Distribution 

 

PPL Electric's distribution base rates are calculated based
on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus a cash working capital allowance less plant-related deferred taxes and other miscellaneous
additions and deductions). All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base; therefore, no return
is earned on the related assets unless specifically provided for by the PUC. Currently, PPL Electric's Smart Meter rider and the
DSIC are the only riders earning a return. Certain operating expenses are also included in PPL Electric's distribution base rates
including wages and benefits, other operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation and taxes.

 

Pennsylvania's Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard (AEPS)
requires electricity distribution companies and electricity generation suppliers to obtain from alternative energy resources a
portion of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania. Under the default service procurement plans approved by the
PUC, PPL Electric purchases all of the alternative energy generation supply it needs to comply with the AEPS.

 

Act 129 created an energy efficiency and conservation program,
a demand side management program, smart metering technology requirements, new PLR generation supply procurement rules, remedies
for market misconduct and changes to the existing AEPS.

 

Act 11 authorizes the PUC to approve two specific ratemaking
mechanisms: the use of a fully projected future test year in base rate proceedings and, subject to certain conditions, the use
of a DSIC. Such alternative ratemaking procedures and mechanisms provide opportunity for accelerated cost-recovery and, therefore,
are important to PPL Electric as it is in a period of significant capital investment to maintain and enhance the reliability of
its delivery system, including the replacement of aging assets. In January 2013, PPL Electric filed a petition requesting permission
to establish a DSIC. In May 2013, the PUC approved PPL Electric's proposed DSIC with an initial rate effective July 1, 2013, subject
to refund after hearings. The PUC also assigned four technical recovery calculation issues to the Office of Administrative Law
Judge for hearing and preparation of a recommended decision. In November 2015, the PUC issued an opinion and order approving PPL
Electric's Petition with minor modifications.

 

See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities"
in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding Act 129, Act 11 and other legislative and regulatory
impacts.

 

PLR

 

The Customer Choice Act requires Electric Distribution Companies
(EDCs), including PPL Electric, or an alternative supplier approved by the PUC to act as a PLR of electricity supply for customers
who do not choose to shop for supply with a competitive supplier and provides that electricity supply costs will be recovered by
the PLR pursuant to PUC regulations. As of December 31, 2015, the following percentages of PPL Electric's customer load were provided
by competitive suppliers: 50% of residential, 85% of small commercial and industrial and 99% of large commercial and industrial
customers. The PUC continues to be interested in expanding the competitive market for electricity. See "Regulatory Matters
- Pennsylvania Activities - Act 129" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

 

PPL Electric's cost of electricity generation is based on a
competitive solicitation process. The PUC approved PPL Electric's default service plan for the period June 2015 through May 2017,
which includes 4 solicitations for electricity supply held in April and October, annually. Pursuant to this plan, PPL Electric
contracts for all of the electricity supply for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers, large commercial
and large industrial customers who elect to take that service from PPL Electric. These solicitations include a mix of 6- and 12-month
fixed-price load-following contracts for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers, and 12-month real-time pricing
contracts for large commercial and large industrial customers to fulfill PPL Electric's obligation to provide customer electricity
supply as a PLR.

 

Numerous alternative suppliers have offered to provide generation
supply in PPL Electric's service territory. Since the cost of generation supply is a pass-through cost for PPL Electric, its financial
results are not impacted if its customers purchase



    14 
     Table of Contents 
    

electricity supply from these alternative suppliers. See "Energy
Purchase Commitments" in Note 13 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding PPL Electric's solicitations.

 

See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities - Rate
Case Proceedings" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for information regarding PPL Electric's 2015 rate case proceedings.

 



    ·
    Other Corporate Functions (PPL) 

 

PPL Services provides PPL subsidiaries with administrative,
management and support services.

 

PPL EU Services, formed in 2015, is included within the Pennsylvania
Regulated Segment and provides the majority of financial, supply chain, human resources and facilities management services to PPL
Electric. Significant portions of the various corporate functions previously within PPL Services were transferred to PPL EU Services
in 2015. Certain other functions are to be transferred to PPL EU Services as the transition services agreements with Talen Energy
expire. PPL Services will continue to provide certain limited corporate functions. For both service companies, the costs of these
services are charged directly to the respective recipients for the services provided or indirectly charged to applicable recipients
based on an average of the recipients' relative invested capital, operation and maintenance expenses and number of employees.

 

PPL Capital Funding, PPL's financing subsidiary, provides financing
for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries. PPL's growth in rate-regulated businesses provides the organization with an
enhanced corporate level financing alternative, through PPL Capital Funding, that enables PPL to cost effectively support targeted
credit profiles across all of PPL's rated companies. As a result, PPL plans to further utilize PPL Capital Funding in future financings,
in addition to continued direct financing by the operating companies.

 

Unlike PPL Services and PPL EU Services, PPL Capital Funding's
costs are not generally charged to PPL subsidiaries. Costs are charged directly to PPL. However, PPL Capital Funding participated
significantly in the financing for the acquisitions of LKE and WPD Midlands and certain associated financing costs were allocated
to the Kentucky Regulated and U.K. Regulated segments. The associated financing costs, as well as the financing costs associated
with prior issuances of certain other PPL Capital Funding securities, have been assigned to the appropriate segments for purposes
of PPL management's assessment of segment performance. The financing costs associated primarily with PPL Capital Funding's securities
issuances in 2013 and beyond, with certain exceptions, have not been directly assigned or allocated to any segment.

 

(All Registrants)

 

SEASONALITY

 

The demand for and market prices of electricity and natural
gas are affected by weather. As a result, the Registrants' operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal
basis, especially when more severe weather conditions such as heat waves or extreme winter weather make such fluctuations more
pronounced. The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the type and location of the facilities owned. See "Financial
Condition - Environmental Matters" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" for additional information regarding climate change.

 

FINANCIAL CONDITION

 

See "Financial Condition" in "Item 7. Combined
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for this information.

 

CAPITAL EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS

 

See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources
- Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" for information concerning projected capital expenditure requirements for 2016 through
2020. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for additional information concerning the potential impact on capital expenditures
from environmental matters.

 



    15 
     Table of Contents 
    

 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

 

The Registrants are subject to certain existing and developing
federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations with respect to air and water quality, land use and other environmental
matters. The EPA has recently issued or is in the process of proposing and finalizing numerous environmental regulations relating
to air, water and waste that will directly affect the electricity industry. See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital
Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on projected environmental capital expenditures for the years 2016-2020.
Also, see "Environmental Matters" in Note 13 to the Financial Statements for additional information. To comply with environmental
requirements, PPL's forecast for environmental capital expenditures reflects a best estimate projection of expenditures that may
be required within the next five years. Such projections are $1.9 billion for PPL and LKE ($1 billion for KU and $0.9 billion for
LG&E). Actual costs (including capital, emission allowance purchases and operational modifications) may be significantly lower
or higher depending on the final compliance requirements and market conditions. PPL's and LKE's subsidiaries may also incur capital
expenditures and operating expenses, which are not now determinable, but could be significant. Environmental compliance costs incurred
by LG&E and KU are subject to recovery through a rate recovery mechanism. See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional
information.

 

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

 

At December 31, 2015, PPL and its subsidiaries had the
following full-time employees and employees represented by labor unions.

 



     
     
     
    Total Full-Time
     
    Number of  Union
     
    Percentage of Total

     
     
     
    Employees
     
     Employees
     
    Workforce

    PPL  (a)
     
    12,799
     
    6,376
     
    50%

    PPL Electric
     
    1,935
     
    1,227
     
    63%

    LKE
     
    3,484
     
    812
     
    23%

    LG&E
     
    1,001
     
    688
     
    69%

    KU
     
    926
     
    124
     
    13%

 


(a)Includes 4,085 employees of WPD who are members of labor unions (or 62% of PPL's U.K. workforce). WPD recognizes four unions,
the largest of which represents 41% of its union workforce. WPD's Electricity Business Agreement, which covers 4,015 union employees,
may be amended by agreement between WPD and the unions and can be terminated with 12 months' notice by either side.

 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

 

PPL's Internet website is www.pplweb.com. Under the Investors
heading of that website, PPL provides access to all SEC filings of the Registrants (including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(d)
or 15(d)) free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. Additionally, the Registrants' filings are
available at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) and at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549,
or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.



    16 
     Table of Contents 
    

ITEM 1A. RISK
FACTORS

 

The Registrants face various risks associated with their businesses.
Our businesses, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these
risks. In addition, this report also contains forward-looking and other statements about our businesses that are subject to numerous
risks and uncertainties. See "Forward-Looking Information," "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. Combined
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 13 to the Financial Statements
for more information concerning the risks described below and for other risks, uncertainties and factors that could impact our
businesses and financial results.

 

As used in this Item 1A., the terms "we," "our"
and "us" generally refer to PPL and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole, or to the former PPL Energy Supply
and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole, or PPL Electric and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the
Pennsylvania Regulated segment discussion, or LKE and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Kentucky Regulated
segment discussion.

 

(PPL)

 

Risks Relating to the Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply and Formation
of Talen Energy Corporation

 

If the spinoff of PPL Energy Supply does not qualify as
a tax-free distribution under Sections 355 and 368 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), including
as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of PPL or Talen Energy, then PPL and/or its shareowners may be required to pay
substantial U.S. federal income taxes. 

 

Among other requirements, the completion of the June 1, 2015
spinoff of PPL Energy Supply and subsequent combination with RJS Power was conditioned upon PPL's receipt of a legal opinion of
tax counsel to the effect that the spinoff will qualify as a reorganization pursuant to Section 368(a)(1)(D) and a tax-free
distribution pursuant to Section 355 of the Code. Although receipt of such legal opinion was a condition to completion of
the spinoff and subsequent combination, that legal opinion is not binding on the IRS. Accordingly, the IRS could reach conclusions
that are different from those in the tax opinion. If, notwithstanding the receipt of such opinion, the IRS were to determine the
distribution to be taxable, PPL would, and its shareowners could, depending on their individual circumstances, recognize a tax
liability that could be substantial. In addition, notwithstanding the receipt of such opinion, if the IRS were to determine the
merger to be taxable, PPL shareowners may, depending on their individual circumstances, recognize a tax liability that could be
material.

 

In addition, the spinoff will be taxable to PPL pursuant to
Section 355(e) of the Code if there is a 50% or greater change in ownership (by vote or value) of either PPL or Talen Energy,
directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spinoff. Because PPL's shareowners
collectively owned more than 50% of Talen Energy's common stock following the spinoff and subsequent combination, the combination
alone will not cause the spinoff to be taxable to PPL under Section 355(e) of the Code. However, Section 355(e) of the
Code might apply if acquisitions of stock of PPL before or after the spinoff, or of Talen Energy after the combination, were considered
to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spinoff. PPL is not aware of any such plan or series of
transactions that include the spinoff.

 

Risks related to our U.K. Segment

 



Our U.K. distribution business contributes a significant amount
of PPL's earnings and exposes us to the following additional risks related to operating outside the U.S., including risks associated
with changes in U.K. laws and regulations, taxes, economic conditions and political conditions and policies of the U.K. government
and the European Union. These risks may reduce the results of operations from our U.K. distribution business or affect our ability
to access U.K. revenues for payment of distributions or for other corporate purposes in the U.S.





 


·changes in laws or regulations relating to U.K. operations, including rate regulations, operational performance and tax laws
and regulations;


·changes in government policies, personnel or approval requirements;


·changes in general economic conditions affecting the U.K.;


·regulatory reviews of tariffs for distribution companies;


·changes in labor relations;


·limitations on foreign investment or ownership of projects and returns or distributions to foreign investors;


·limitations on the ability of foreign companies to borrow money from foreign lenders and lack of local capital or loans;


·changes in U.S. tax law applicable to taxation of foreign earnings;



    17 
     Table of Contents 
    


·compliance with U.S. foreign corrupt practices laws; and


·prolonged periods of low inflation or deflation.

 

We are subject to increased foreign currency exchange
rate risks because a majority of our cash flows and reported earnings are currently generated by our U.K. business operations.

 

These risks relate primarily to changes in the relative value
of the British pound sterling and the U.S. dollar between the time we initially invest U.S. dollars in our U.K. businesses, and
our strategy to hedge against such changes, and the time that cash is repatriated to the U.S. from the U.K., including cash flows
from our U.K. businesses that may be distributed to PPL or used for repayments of intercompany loans or other general corporate
purposes. In addition, PPL's consolidated reported earnings on a GAAP basis may be subject to increased earnings translation risk,
which is the result of the conversion of earnings as reported in our U.K. businesses on a British pound sterling basis to a U.S.
dollar basis in accordance with GAAP requirements.

 

Our U.K. segment is subject to inflationary risks.

 

Our U.K. distribution business is subject to the risks associated
with fluctuations in the RPI in the U.K., which is a measure of inflation.

 

In RIIO-ED1, WPD's base demand revenue was established by Ofgem
in 2012/13 prices. Base demand revenue is then increased by RPI for each year to arrive at the amount of revenue WPD can collect
in tariffs. The RPI is forecasted and subject to true-up in subsequent years. The fluctuations between forecasted and actual RPI
can then result in variances in base demand revenue from the business plan accepted by Ofgem. While WPD also has debt that is indexed
to RPI and certain components of operations and maintenance expense are affected by inflation, these may not offset changes in
base demand revenue and offsets would likely affect different calendar years. Further, as RAV is also subject to increase in RPI,
a reduction in RPI could adversely affect the debt/RAV ratio together with the level of subsequent RAV amortization which is an
element of allowed revenue.

 

Our U.K. delivery business is subject to revenue variability
based on operational performance. 

 

Our U.K. delivery businesses operate under an incentive-based
regulatory framework. Managing operational risk and delivering agreed-upon performance are critical to the U.K. Regulated segment's
financial performance. Disruption to these distribution networks could reduce profitability both directly by incurring costs for
network restoration and also through the system of penalties and rewards that Ofgem administers relating to customer service levels.

 

A failure by any of our U.K. regulated businesses to comply
with the terms of a distribution license may lead to the issuance of an enforcement order by Ofgem that could have an adverse impact
on PPL.

 

Ofgem has powers to levy fines of up to ten percent of revenue
for any breach of a distribution license or, in certain circumstances, such as insolvency, the distribution license itself may
be revoked. Ofgem also has formal powers to propose modifications to each distribution license and there can be no assurance that
a restrictive modification will not be introduced in the future, which could have an adverse effect on the operations and financial
condition of the U.K. regulated businesses and PPL.

 

(PPL and LKE)

 

Risk Related to Registrant Holding Companies

 

PPL and LKE are holding companies and their cash flows
and ability to meet their obligations with respect to indebtedness and under guarantees, and PPL's ability to pay dividends, largely
depends on the financial performance of their respective subsidiaries and, as a result, is effectively subordinated to all existing
and future liabilities of those subsidiaries.

 

PPL and LKE are holding companies and conduct their operations
primarily through subsidiaries. Substantially all of the consolidated assets of these Registrants are held by their subsidiaries.
Accordingly, these Registrants' cash flows and ability to meet debt and guaranty obligations, as well as PPL's ability to pay dividends,
are largely dependent upon the earnings of those subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment of such earnings in the form
of dividends, distributions, loans, advances or repayment of loans and advances. The subsidiaries are separate legal entities and
have no obligation to pay dividends or distributions to their parents or to make funds available for such a payment. The ability
of the Registrants'



    18 
     Table of Contents 
    

subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions in the future
will depend on the subsidiaries' future earnings and cash flows and the needs of their businesses, and may be restricted by their
obligations to holders of their outstanding debt and other creditors, as well as any contractual or legal restrictions in effect
at such time, including the requirements of state corporate law applicable to payment of dividends and distributions, and regulatory
requirements, including restrictions on the ability of PPL Electric, LG&E and KU to pay dividends under Section 305(a) of the
Federal Power Act.

 

Because PPL and LKE are holding companies, their debt and guaranty
obligations are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of their subsidiaries. Although certain agreements
to which certain subsidiaries are parties limit their ability to incur additional indebtedness, PPL and LKE and their subsidiaries
retain the ability to incur substantial additional indebtedness and other liabilities. Therefore, PPL's and LKE's rights and the
rights of their creditors, including rights of debt holders, to participate in the assets of any of their subsidiaries, in the
event that such a subsidiary is liquidated or reorganized, will be subject to the prior claims of such subsidiary's creditors.
In addition, if PPL elects to receive distributions of earnings from its foreign operations, PPL may incur U.S. income taxes, net
of any available foreign tax credits, on such amounts.

 

(PPL Electric, LG&E and KU)

 

Risks Related to Domestic Regulated Utility Operations

 

Our domestic regulated utility businesses face many of the same
risks, in addition to those risks that are unique to each of the Kentucky Regulated segment and the Pennsylvania Regulated segment.
Set forth below are risk factors common to both domestic regulated segments, followed by sections identifying separately the risks
specific to each of these segments.

 

The operation of our businesses is subject to cyber-based
security and integrity risks.

 

Numerous functions affecting the efficient operation of our
businesses are dependent on the secure and reliable storage, processing and communication of electronic data and the use of sophisticated
computer hardware and software systems. The operation of our generation plants, as well as our transmission and distribution operations,
are all reliant on cyber-based technologies and, therefore, subject to the risk that such systems could be the target of disruptive
actions, principally by terrorists or vandals, or otherwise be compromised by unintentional events. As a result, operations could
be interrupted, property could be damaged and sensitive customer information lost or stolen, causing us to incur significant losses
of revenues, other substantial liabilities and damages, costs to replace or repair damaged equipment and damage to our reputation.

 

Our profitability is highly dependent on our ability to
recover the costs of providing energy and utility services to our customers and earn an adequate return on our capital investments.
Regulators may not approve the rates we request and existing rates may be challenged.

 

The rates we charge our utility customers must be approved by
one or more federal or state regulatory commissions, including the FERC, KPSC, VSCC, TRA and PUC. Although rate regulation is generally
premised on the recovery of prudently incurred costs and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance
that regulatory authorities will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process by which
rates are determined will always result in rates that achieve full or timely recovery of our costs or an adequate return on our
capital investments. Federal or state agencies, intervenors and other permitted parties may challenge our current or future rate
requests, structures or mechanisms, and ultimately reduce, alter or limit the rates we receive. Although our rates are generally
regulated based on an analysis of our costs incurred in a base year or on future projected costs, the rates we are allowed to charge
may or may not match our costs at any given time. Our domestic regulated utility businesses are subject to substantial capital
expenditure requirements over the next several years, which will likely require rate increase requests to the regulators. If our
costs are not adequately recovered through rates, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash
flows and financial condition.

 

Our domestic utility businesses are subject to significant
and complex governmental regulation.

 

In addition to regulating the rates we charge, various federal
and state regulatory authorities regulate many aspects of our domestic utility operations, including:

 


·the terms and conditions of our service and operations;


·financial and capital structure matters;


·siting, construction and operation of facilities;


·mandatory reliability and safety standards under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other standards of conduct;



    19 
     Table of Contents 
    


·accounting, depreciation and cost allocation methodologies;


·tax matters;


·affiliate transactions;


·acquisition and disposal of utility assets and issuance of securities; and


·various other matters, including energy efficiency.

 

Such regulations or changes thereto may subject us to higher
operating costs or increased capital expenditures and failure to comply could result in sanctions or possible penalties which may
not be recoverable from customers.

 

Our domestic regulated businesses undertake significant
capital projects and these activities are subject to unforeseen costs, delays or failures, as well as risk of inadequate
recovery of resulting costs.

 

The domestic regulated utility businesses are capital intensive
and require significant investments in energy generation (in the case of LG&E and KU) and transmission, distribution and other
infrastructure projects, such as projects for environmental compliance and system reliability. The completion of these projects
without delays or cost overruns is subject to risks in many areas, including:

 


·approval, licensing and permitting;


·land acquisition and the availability of suitable land;


·skilled labor or equipment shortages;


·construction problems or delays, including disputes with third-party intervenors;


·increases in commodity prices or labor rates;


·contractor performance;

 

Failure to complete our capital projects on schedule or on budget,
or at all, could adversely affect our financial performance, operations and future growth if such expenditures are not granted
rate recovery by our regulators.

 

We are subject to the risk that our workforce and its
knowledge base may become depleted in coming years.

 

We are experiencing an increase in attrition due primarily to
the number of retiring employees, with the risk that critical knowledge will be lost and that it may be difficult to replace departed
personnel, and to attract and retain new personnel, due to a declining trend in the number of available skilled workers and an
increase in competition for such workers.

 

Risks Specific to Kentucky Regulated Segment

 

(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)

 

The costs of compliance with, and liabilities under, environmental
laws are significant and are subject to continuing changes.

 

Extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations
are applicable to LG&E's and KU's generation business, including its air emissions, water discharges and the management of
hazardous and solid wastes, among other business-related activities, and the costs of compliance or alleged non-compliance cannot
be predicted but could be material. In addition, our costs may increase significantly if the requirements or scope of environmental
laws, regulations or similar rules are expanded or changed. Costs may take the form of increased capital expenditures or operating
and maintenance expenses, monetary fines, penalties or forfeitures, operational changes, permit limitations or other restrictions.
At some of our older generating facilities it may be uneconomic for us to install necessary pollution control equipment, which
could cause us to retire those units. Market prices for energy and capacity also affect this cost-effectiveness analysis. Many
of these environmental law considerations are also applicable to the operations of our key suppliers, or customers, such as coal
producers and industrial power users, and may impact the costs of their products and demand for our services.

 

Ongoing changes in environmental regulations or their
implementation requirements and our related compliance strategies entail a number of uncertainties.

 

The environmental standards governing LG&E's and KU's businesses,
particularly as applicable to coal-fired generation and related activities, continue to be subject to uncertainties due to rulemaking
and other regulatory developments, legislative activities and litigation, administrative or permit challenges. Revisions to applicable
standards, changes in compliance deadlines and invalidation of rules on appeal may require major changes in compliance strategies,
operations or assets and



    20 
     Table of Contents 
    

adjustments to prior plans. Depending on the extent, frequency
and timing of such changes, the companies may be subject to inconsistent requirements under multiple regulatory programs, compressed
windows for decision-making and short compliance deadlines that may require new technologies or aggressive schedules for construction,
permitting and other regulatory approvals. Under such circumstances, the companies may face higher risks of unsuccessful implementation
of environmental-related business plans, noncompliance with applicable environmental rules, delayed or incomplete rate recovery
or increased costs of implementation.

 

We are subject to operational, regulatory and other risks
regarding certain significant developments in environmental regulation affecting coal-fired generation facilities.

 

Certain regulatory initiatives have been implemented or are
under development which could represent significant developments or changes in environmental regulation and compliance costs or
risk associated with the combustion of coal as occurs at LG&E's and KU's coal-fired generation facilities. In particular, such
developments include the federal Clean Power Plan regulations governing greenhouse gas emissions at existing or new power plants,
the federal Coal Combustion Residuals regulations governing coal by-product storage activities and the federal Effluent Limitations
Guidelines governing water discharge activities. Such initiatives have the potential to require significant changes in generation
portfolio composition and in coal combustion byproduct handling and disposal or water treatment and release facilities and methods
from those historically used or currently available. Consequently, such developments may involve increased risks relating to the
uncertain cost, efficacy and reliability of new technologies, equipment or methods. Compliance with such regulations could result
in significant changes to LG&E's and KU's operations or commercial practices and material additional capital or operating expenditures.
Such circumstances could also involve higher risks of compliance violations or of variations in rate or regulatory treatment when
compared to existing frameworks.

 

Risks Specific to Pennsylvania Regulated Segment

 

(PPL and PPL Electric)

 

We plan to selectively pursue growth of our transmission
capacity, which involves a number of uncertainties and may not achieve the desired financial results.

 

We plan to pursue expansion of our transmission capacity over
the next several years. We plan to do this through the potential construction or acquisition of transmission projects and capital
investments to upgrade transmission infrastructure. These types of projects involve numerous risks. With respect to the construction
or acquisition of transmission projects, we may be required to expend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting,
resource exploration, legal and other expenses before it can be established whether a project is feasible, economically attractive
or capable of being financed. Expansion in our regulated businesses is dependent on future load or service requirements and subject
to applicable regulatory processes. The success of both a new or acquired project would likely be contingent, among other things,
upon the negotiation of satisfactory construction contracts, obtaining acceptable financing and maintaining acceptable credit ratings,
as well as receipt of required and appropriate governmental approvals. If we were unable to complete construction or expansion
of a project, we may not be able to recover our investment in the project.

 

We face competition for transmission projects, which could
adversely affect our rate base growth.

 

FERC Order 1000, issued in July 2011, establishes certain procedural
and substantive requirements relating to participation, cost allocation and non-incumbent developer aspects of regional and inter-regional
electric transmission planning activities.  The PPL Electric transmission business, operating under a FERC-approved PJM Open
Access Transmission Tariff (OATT), is subject to competition pursuant to FERC Order 1000 from entities that are not incumbent PJM
transmission owners with respect to the construction and ownership of transmission facilities within PJM. Increased competition
can result in lower rate base growth.

 

We could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related
to Pennsylvania Conservation and Energy Efficiency Programs. 

 

PPL Electric is subject to Act 129 which contains requirements
for energy efficiency and conservation programs and for the use of smart metering technology, imposes PLR electricity supply procurement
rules, provides remedies for market misconduct, and made changes to the existing Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard. The law
also requires electric utilities to meet specified goals for reduction in customer electricity usage and peak demand. Utilities
not meeting these Act 129 requirements are subject to significant penalties that cannot be recovered in rates. Numerous factors
outside of our control could prevent compliance with these requirements and result in penalties to us.



    21 
     Table of Contents 
    

 

We are or may be subject to costs of remediation of environmental
contamination at facilities owned or operated by PPL Electric or its former subsidiaries.

 

We may be subject to liability for the costs of environmental
remediation of property now or formerly owned by us with respect to substances that we may have generated regardless of whether
the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. We also have current or previous ownership
interests in sites associated with the production of manufactured gas for which we may be liable for additional costs related to
investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. Remediation activities associated with our former manufactured gas plant
operations are one source of such costs. Citizen groups or others may bring litigation regarding environmental issues including
claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement
of environmental requirements, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. We cannot predict
the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental
matters, although they could be material.

 

Risks Related to All Segments

 

(All Registrants)

 

Increases in electricity prices and/or a weak economy,
can lead to changes in legislative and regulatory policy, including the promotion of energy efficiency, conservation and distributed
generation or self-generation, which may adversely impact our business. 

 

Energy consumption is significantly impacted by overall levels
of economic activity and costs of energy supplies. Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs can lead to changes
in or the development of legislative and regulatory policy designed to promote reductions in energy consumption and increased energy
efficiency, alternative and renewable energy sources, and distributed or self-generation by customers. This focus on conservation,
energy efficiency and self-generation may result in a decline in electricity demand, which could in turn adversely affect our business.

 

We could be negatively affected by rising interest rates,
downgrades to our credit ratings, adverse credit market conditions or other negative developments in our ability to access capital
markets. 

 

In the ordinary course of business, we are reliant upon adequate
long-term and short-term financing to fund our significant capital expenditures, debt service and operating needs. As a capital-intensive
business, we are sensitive to developments in interest rates, credit rating considerations, insurance, security or collateral requirements,
market liquidity and credit availability and refinancing opportunities necessary or advisable to respond to credit market changes.
Changes in these conditions could result in increased costs and decreased availability of credit.

 

A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect
our ability to access capital and increase the cost of maintaining our credit facilities and any new debt. 

 

Credit ratings assigned by Moody's and S&P to our businesses
and their financial obligations have a significant impact on the cost of capital incurred by our businesses. A ratings downgrade
could increase our short-term borrowing costs and negatively affect our ability to fund liquidity needs and access new long-term
debt at acceptable interest rates. See "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Ratings Triggers" for additional information
on the financial impact of a downgrade in our credit ratings.

 

Disruption in financial markets could adversely affect
our financial condition and results of operations. 

 

Our businesses are heavily dependent on credit and access to
capital, among other things, for financing capital expenditures. Regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S. and Basel III
in Europe may impose costly additional requirements on the businesses of others with whom we contract, such as banks or other counterparties,
or simply result in increased costs to conduct our business or access sources of capital and liquidity upon which the conduct of
our businesses is dependent.

 

Our operating revenues could fluctuate on a seasonal basis,
especially as a result of extreme weather conditions.

 

Our businesses are subject to seasonal demand cycles. For example,
in some markets demand for, and market prices of, electricity peak during hot summer months, while in other markets such peaks
occur in cold winter months. As a result, our



    22 
     Table of Contents 
    

overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal
basis if weather conditions such as heat waves, extreme cold, unseasonably mild weather or severe storms occur. The patterns of
these fluctuations may change depending on the type and location of our facilities.

 

Operating expenses could be affected by weather conditions,
including storms, as well as by significant man-made or accidental disturbances, including terrorism or natural disasters.

 

Weather and these other factors can significantly affect our
profitability or operations by causing outages, damaging infrastructure and requiring significant repair costs. Storm outages and
damage often directly decrease revenues and increase expenses, due to reduced usage and restoration costs.

 

Our businesses are subject to physical, market and economic
risks relating to potential effects of climate change. 

 

Climate change may produce changes in weather or other environmental
conditions, including temperature or precipitation levels, and thus may impact consumer demand for electricity. In addition, the
potential physical effects of climate change, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, and other climatic events,
could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant costs to prepare for or respond to these effects. These or other
meteorological changes could lead to increased operating costs, capital expenses or power purchase costs. Greenhouse gas regulation
could increase the cost of electricity, particularly power generated by fossil fuels, and such increases could have a depressive
effect on regional economies. Reduced economic and consumer activity in our service areas -- both generally and specific to certain
industries and consumers accustomed to previously lower cost power -- could reduce demand for the power we generate, market and
deliver. Also, demand for our energy-related services could be similarly lowered by consumers' preferences or market factors favoring
energy efficiency, low-carbon power sources or reduced electricity usage.

 

We cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings
and investigations currently being conducted with respect to our current and past business activities. An adverse determination
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

 

We are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation
and subject to ongoing state and federal investigations arising out of our business operations, the most significant of which are
summarized in "Federal Matters" in Note 6 and "Legal Matters," "Regulatory Issues" and "Environmental
Matters - Domestic" in Note 13 to the Financial Statements. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, nor can
we reasonably estimate the costs or liabilities that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case.

 

Significant increases in our operation and maintenance
expenses, including health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity.

 

We continually focus on limiting and reducing our operation
and maintenance expenses. However, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in our operations. Increased costs of
materials and labor may result from general inflation, increased regulatory requirements (especially in respect of environmental
regulations), the need for higher-cost expertise in the workforce or other factors. In addition, pursuant to collective bargaining
agreements, we are contractually committed to provide specified levels of health care and pension benefits to certain current employees
and retirees. We provide a similar level of benefits to our management employees. These benefits give rise to significant expenses.
Due to general inflation with respect to such costs, the aging demographics of our workforce and other factors, we have experienced
significant health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our health care costs, including prescription drug coverage,
to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take to require employees and retirees to bear a higher
portion of the costs of their health care benefits. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant costs with respect
to the defined benefit pension plans for our employees and retirees. The measurement of our expected future health care and pension
obligations, costs and liabilities is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, most of which relate to factors beyond our
control. These assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, inflation rates, benefit improvements,
salary increases and the demographics of plan participants. If our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our future costs and cash
contribution requirements to fund these benefits could increase significantly.

 

We may be required to record impairment charges in the
future for certain of our investments, which could adversely affect our earnings.

 

Under GAAP, we are required to test our recorded goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that
these assets may be impaired. Although no



    23 
     Table of Contents 
    

impairments were recorded based on our annual review in the
fourth quarter of 2015, we are unable to predict whether future impairment charges may be necessary.

 

We also review our long-lived tangible and finite-lived intangible
assets, including equity investments, for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets
may not be recoverable. Although no impairment charges have been recorded related to the Company's continuing operations during
the reporting periods, we are unable to predict whether impairment charges, or other losses on sales of other assets or businesses,
may occur in future years.

 

We may incur liabilities in connection with discontinued
operations.

 

In connection with various divestitures, and certain other transactions,
we have indemnified or guaranteed parties against certain liabilities. These indemnities and guarantees relate, among other things,
to liabilities which may arise with respect to the period during which we or our subsidiaries operated a divested business, and
to certain ongoing contractual relationships and entitlements with respect to which we or our subsidiaries made commitments in
connection with the divestiture. See "Guarantees and Other Assurances" in Note 13 to the Financial Statements.

 

We are subject to liability risks relating to our generation,
transmission and distribution operations. 

 

The conduct of our physical and commercial operations subjects
us to many risks, including risks of potential physical injury, property damage or other financial liability, caused to or by employees,
customers, contractors, vendors, contractual or financial counterparties and other third parties.

 

Our facilities may not operate as planned, which may increase
our expenses and decrease our revenues and have an adverse effect on our financial performance.

 

Operation of power plants, transmission and distribution facilities,
information technology systems and other assets and activities subjects us to a variety of risks, including the breakdown or failure
of equipment, accidents, security breaches, viruses or outages affecting information technology systems, labor disputes, obsolescence,
delivery/transportation problems and disruptions of fuel supply and performance below expected levels. These events may impact
our ability to conduct our businesses efficiently and lead to increased costs, expenses or losses. Operation of our delivery systems
below our expectations may result in lost revenue and increased expense, including higher maintenance costs which may not be recoverable
from customers. Planned and unplanned outages at our power plants may require us to purchase power at then-current market prices
to satisfy our commitments or, in the alternative, pay penalties and damages for failure to satisfy them.

 

Although we maintain customary insurance coverage for certain
of these risks, no assurance can be given that such insurance coverage will be sufficient to compensate us in the event losses
occur.

 

We are subject to risks associated with federal and state
tax laws and regulations. 

 

Changes in tax law as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying
potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact our results of operations. We are required to make judgments
in order to estimate our obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, property, gross receipts and
franchise, sales and use, employment-related and other taxes. We also estimate our ability to utilize tax benefits and tax credits.
Due to the revenue needs of the jurisdictions in which our businesses operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or
considered. We cannot predict whether such tax legislation or regulation will be introduced or enacted or the effect of any such
changes on our businesses. If enacted, any changes could increase tax expense and could have a significant negative impact on our
results of operations and cash flows.

 

We are required to obtain, and to comply with, government
permits and approvals. 

 

We are required to obtain, and to comply with, numerous permits,
approvals, licenses and certificates from governmental agencies. The process of obtaining and renewing necessary permits can be
lengthy and complex and can sometimes result in the establishment of permit conditions that make the project or activity for which
the permit was sought unprofitable or otherwise unattractive. In addition, such permits or approvals may be subject to denial,
revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of permits or approvals,
or failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, may result in the delay or temporary suspension of our operations
and electricity sales or the curtailment of our power delivery and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. Although various
regulators routinely renew existing licenses, renewal could be denied or jeopardized by various factors, including failure to provide
adequate



    24 
     Table of Contents 
    

financial assurance for closure; failure to comply with environmental,
health and safety laws and regulations or permit conditions; local community, political or other opposition; and executive, legislative
or regulatory action.

 

Our cost or inability to obtain and comply with the permits
and approvals required for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and cash flows. In addition, new
environmental legislation or regulations, if enacted, or changed interpretations of existing laws may elicit claims that historical
routine modification activities at our facilities violated applicable laws and regulations. In addition to the possible imposition
of fines in such cases, we may be required to undertake significant capital investments in pollution control technology and obtain
additional operating permits or approvals, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows
and financial condition.

 

War, other armed conflicts or terrorist attacks could
have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 

War, terrorist attacks and unrest have caused and may continue
to cause instability in the world's financial and commercial markets and have contributed to high levels of volatility in prices
for oil and gas. In addition, unrest in the Middle East could lead to acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, and
acts of terrorism could be directed against companies such as ours. Armed conflicts and terrorism and their effects on us or our
markets may significantly affect our business and results of operations in the future. In addition, we may incur increased costs
for security, including additional physical plant security and security personnel or additional capability following a terrorist
incident.

 

We are subject to counterparty performance, credit or
other risk in their provision of goods or services to us, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our facilities or
conduct business activities.

 

We purchase from a variety of suppliers energy, capacity, fuel,
natural gas, transmission service and certain commodities used in the physical operation of our businesses, as well as goods or
services, including information technology rights and services, used in the administration of our businesses. Delivery of these
goods and services is dependent on the continuing operational performance and financial viability of our contractual counterparties
and also the markets, infrastructure or third-parties they use to provide such goods and services to us. As a result, we are subject
to the risks of disruptions, curtailments or increased costs in the operation of our businesses if such goods or services are unavailable
or become subject to price spikes or if a counterparty fails to perform. Such disruptions could adversely affect our ability to
operate our facilities or deliver our services and collect our revenues, which could result in lower sales and/or higher costs
and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. The performance of coal markets and producers may be the subject of increased
counterparty risk to LKE, LG&E and KU currently due to weaknesses in such markets and suppliers. The coal industry is subject
to increasing competitive pressures from natural gas markets and new or more stringent environmental regulation, including greenhouse
gases or other air emissions, combustion byproducts and water inputs or discharges. Consequently, the coal industry faces raised
production costs or closed customer markets.

 

ITEM 1B