Item 1A. Risk Factors" and in "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in
this Form 10-K report, the following are among the important factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking
statements.
      
      
        

              
                ·
              
              
                fuel
      supply cost and availability;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                weather
      conditions affecting generation, customer energy use and operating
      costs;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                operation,
      availability and operating costs of existing generation
      facilities;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                transmission
      and distribution system conditions and operating costs;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                potential
      expansion of alternative sources of electricity
  generation;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                potential
      laws or regulations to reduce emissions of "greenhouse"
    gases;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                collective
      labor bargaining negotiations;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                the
      outcome of litigation against PPL and its subsidiaries;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                potential
      effects of threatened or actual terrorism, war or other hostilities, or
      natural disasters;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                the
      commitments and liabilities of PPL and its
subsidiaries;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                market
      demand and prices for energy, capacity, emission allowances and delivered
      fuel;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                competition
      in retail and wholesale power markets;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                liquidity
      of wholesale power markets;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                defaults
      by counterparties under energy, fuel or other power product
      contracts;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                market
      prices of commodity inputs for ongoing capital
    expenditures;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                capital
      market conditions, including the availability of capital or credit,
      changes in interest rates, and decisions regarding capital
      structure;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                stock
      price performance of PPL;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                the
      fair value of debt and equity securities and the impact on defined benefit
      costs and resultant cash funding requirements for defined benefit
      plans;
              
            
      
      
        

              
                ·
              
              
                interest
      rates and their effect on pension, retiree medical and nuclear
      decommissioning liabilities;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                the
      impact of the current financial and economic downturn;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                the
      effect of electricity price deregulation beginning in 2010 in PPL
      Electric's service territory;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                the
      profitability and liquidity, including access to capital markets and
      credit facilities, of PPL and its subsidiaries;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                new
      accounting requirements or new interpretations or applications of existing
      requirements;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                changes
      in securities and credit ratings;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                foreign
      currency exchange rates;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                current
      and future environmental conditions, regulations and other requirements
      and the related costs of compliance, including environmental capital
      expenditures, emission allowance costs and other
  expenses;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                political,
      regulatory or economic conditions in states, regions or countries where
      PPL or its subsidiaries conduct business;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                receipt
      of necessary governmental permits, approvals and rate
    relief;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                new
      state, federal or foreign legislation, including new tax
      legislation;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                state,
      federal and foreign regulatory developments;
              
            
              ·
              

                the
      outcome of any rate cases by PPL Electric at the PUC;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                the
      impact of any state, federal or foreign investigations applicable to PPL
      and its subsidiaries and the energy industry;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                the
      effect of any business or industry restructuring;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                development
      of new projects, markets and technologies;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                performance
      of new ventures; and
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                business
      or asset acquisitions and
dispositions.
              
            
      
      
      Any such
forward-looking statements should be considered in light of such important
factors and in conjunction with other documents of PPL, PPL Energy Supply and
PPL Electric on file with the SEC.
      
      New
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
described in forward-looking statements emerge from time to time, and it is not
possible for PPL, PPL Energy Supply or PPL Electric to predict all such factors,
or the extent to which any such factor or combination of factors may cause
actual results to differ from those contained in any forward-looking
statement.  Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date
on which such statement is made, and PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric
undertake no obligation to update the information contained in such statement to
reflect subsequent developments or information.
      
        
          
        
      
      PART I
      
      
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
      
      BACKGROUND
      
      PPL Corporation,
headquartered in Allentown, PA, is an energy and utility holding company that
was incorporated in 1994.  Through its subsidiaries, PPL generates
electricity from power plants in the northeastern and western U.S., markets
wholesale or retail energy primarily in the northeastern and western portions of
the U.S. and delivers electricity to approximately 4 million customers in
Pennsylvania and the U.K.  PPL's significant subsidiaries are shown
below:
       
      
      
      In
addition to PPL Corporation, the other SEC registrants included in this filing
are:
      
      PPL Energy Supply, LLC, an
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PPL formed in 2000, is an energy company
engaged through its subsidiaries in the generation and marketing of power,
primarily in the northeastern and western power markets of the U.S. and in the
delivery of electricity in the U.K.  PPL Energy Supply's major
operating subsidiaries are PPL Generation, PPL EnergyPlus and PPL
Global.  At December 31, 2009, PPL Energy Supply owned or
controlled 11,719 MW of electric power generation capacity and has plans to
implement capital projects at certain of its existing generation facilities in
Pennsylvania and Montana to provide 239 MW of additional generating capacity by
2014.
      
      PPL Electric Utilities
Corporation, incorporated in 1920, is a direct subsidiary of PPL and a
regulated public utility.  PPL Electric provides electricity delivery
service in its service territory in Pennsylvania and provides electricity supply
to retail customers in that territory as a PLR under the Customer Choice
Act.
       
      Segment
Information
      
      PPL is
organized into three segments:  Supply, Pennsylvania Delivery and
International Delivery.  PPL Energy Supply's segments consist of
Supply and International Delivery.  PPL Electric operates in a single
business segment.  See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for
financial information about the segments and geographic financial
data.
      
      
        

              
                ·
              
              
                Supply Segment
      -
              
            
               
      
               
      
            
               
      
              
                Owns
      and operates domestic power plants to generate electricity; markets and
      trades this electricity and other purchased power to deregulated wholesale
      and retail markets; and acquires and develops domestic generation
      projects.  Consists primarily of the activities of PPL
      Generation and PPL EnergyPlus.
              
            
      
      
      PPL
Energy Supply has generation assets that are located in the eastern and western
U.S. markets.  The eastern generation assets are located in the
Northeast/Mid-Atlantic energy markets - including PJM, the New York ISO and ISO
New England.  PPL Energy Supply's western generating capacity is
located in markets within the Western Electricity Coordinating
Council.
      
      
        

               
      
              
                PPL Energy Supply
      Owned or Controlled Generation
Capacity
              
            
      
      
      PPL
Energy Supply owned or controlled generating capacity of 11,719 MW at
December 31, 2009.  Through subsidiaries, PPL Generation owns and
operates power plants primarily in Pennsylvania, Montana, Illinois, Connecticut,
New York and Maine.  The total owned or controlled generating capacity
includes power obtained through PPL EnergyPlus' tolling or power purchase
agreements (including Ironwood and other facilities that consist of NUGs, wind
farms and landfill gas facilities).  See "Item 2. Properties - Supply
Segment" for a complete listing of PPL Energy Supply's generating
capacity.
      
      PPL
Energy Supply's U.S. generation subsidiaries are EWGs, which sell electricity
into the wholesale market.  PPL Energy Supply's EWGs are subject to
regulation by the FERC, which has authorized these EWGs to sell generation from
their facilities at market-based prices.  The electricity from these
plants is sold to PPL EnergyPlus under FERC-jurisdictional power purchase
agreements.
      
      PPL
Generation operates its Pennsylvania and Illinois power plants in conjunction
with PJM.  PPL Generation's Pennsylvania and Illinois power plants and
PPL EnergyPlus are members of the RFC.  Refer to "Pennsylvania
Delivery Segment" for information regarding PJM's operations and functions and
the RFC.
      
      Pennsylvania
generation had a total capacity of 9,583 MW at December 31,
2009.  These plants are fueled by uranium, coal, natural gas, oil,
water and other fuels.
      
      PPL
Susquehanna, a subsidiary of PPL Generation, owns a 90% undivided interest in
each of the two nuclear-fueled generating units at its Susquehanna station in
Pennsylvania.  Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc. owns the remaining
10% undivided interest.  PPL's 90% share of Susquehanna's generating
capacity was 2,206 MW at December 31, 2009.  The Illinois
natural gas-fired station has a total capacity of 585 MW.
      
      The
Montana coal-fired and hydroelectric-powered stations have a capacity of 1,286
MW.  PPL Montana's power plants are operated in conjunction with the
Western Electricity Coordinating Council.
      
      The
Connecticut natural gas-fired station has a total capacity of 244 MW, is
operated in conjunction with ISO New England and the Northeast Power
Coordinating Council.
      
      The New
York oil/gas-fired stations have a capacity of 159 MW.  These
generating assets are operated in conjunction with the New York ISO and the
Northeast Power Coordinating Council.  Tolling agreements are in place
for 100% of the capacity and output of this business.  See Note 9 to
the Financial Statements for additional information on the anticipated sale of
the Long Island generation business.
      
      The Maine
hydroelectric-powered stations have a total capacity of 12 MW.  The
Maine generating assets are operated in conjunction with ISO New England and the
Northeast Power Coordinating Council.  See Note 9 to the Financial
Statements for information on the November 2009 sale of the majority of the
Maine hydroelectric business, the sale of PPL's interest in an oil-fired unit in
Maine and the conditional agreement of sale for the remaining three
hydroelectric facilities.
      
      PPL
Generation has current plans for capital projects at certain of its generation
facilities in Pennsylvania and Montana to provide 239 MW of additional
generation capacity for its use by 2014.  See "Item 2. Properties -
Supply Segment" for additional information regarding these capital
projects.
      
      Refer to
the "Power Supply" section for additional information regarding electricity
generated by the power plants operated by PPL Generation and to the "Fuel
Supply" section for a discussion of fuel requirements and contractual
arrangements for fuel.
      
      A
subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply develops renewable energy plants on various
sites using technologies such as turbines, reciprocating engines and
photovoltaic solar panels.  Included in PPL Energy Supply's owned or
controlled generating capacity reported in "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment"
is approximately 28 MW of installed capacity from these projects that serve
commercial and industrial customers.
      
      Certain
PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of certain
federal, regional, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to air and
water quality, land use and other environmental matters.  PPL
Susquehanna is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the
operation of the Susquehanna units.  Certain of PPL Energy Supply's
other subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with
the operation of their fossil plants with respect to certain level and density
monitoring devices.
      
      Certain
operations of PPL Generation's subsidiaries are subject to the Occupational
Safety and Health Act of 1970 and comparable state statutes.
      
      
        

               
      
              
                Energy
      Marketing
              
            
      
      
      PPL
EnergyPlus sells the electricity produced by PPL Generation subsidiaries, along
with purchased power, FTRs, natural gas, oil, uranium, emission allowances and
RECs in competitive wholesale and deregulated retail markets in order to take
advantage of opportunities in the competitive energy marketplace.
      
      PPL
EnergyPlus purchases and sells electric capacity and energy at the wholesale
level at competitive prices under FERC market-based prices.  PPL
EnergyPlus enters into these agreements to market available energy and capacity
from PPL Generation's assets and to profit from market price
fluctuations.  Within the constraints of its hedging policy, PPL
EnergyPlus actively manages its portfolios to optimize the value of PPL's
generating assets and to limit exposure to price fluctuations.  PPL
EnergyPlus also enters into over-the-counter and futures contracts to purchase
and sell energy and other commodity-based financial instruments in accordance
with PPL's risk management policies, objectives and strategies.
      
      PPL
EnergyPlus had contracted to provide electricity to PPL Electric sufficient for
it to meet its PLR obligation through 2009 at the predetermined capped rates PPL
Electric was entitled to charge its customers.  These contracts
accounted for 29% of PPL Energy Supply's operating revenues in 2009 and expired
December 31, 2009.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for more
information concerning these contracts.
      
      PPL
EnergyPlus is licensed to provide retail electric supply to customers in
Delaware, Maine, Massachusetts, Maryland, Montana, New Jersey and Pennsylvania
and provides electricity to industrial and commercial customers in Montana and
Pennsylvania.  PPL EnergyPlus provides natural gas to customers in
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and Maryland.
      
      
        

               
      
              
                Competition
              
            
      
      
      The
unregulated businesses and markets in which PPL and its subsidiaries participate
are highly competitive.  Since the early 1990s, there has been
increased competition in U.S. energy markets because of federal and state
deregulation initiatives.  For example, in 1992 the Energy Act amended
the Federal Power Act to provide open access to electric transmission systems
for wholesale transactions.  In 1996, the Customer Choice Act was
enacted in Pennsylvania to restructure the state's electric utility industry to
create a competitive market for electricity generation.  Certain other
states in which PPL's subsidiaries operate have also adopted "customer choice"
plans to allow customers to choose their electricity supplier.  PPL
and its subsidiaries believe that competition in deregulated energy markets will
continue to be intense.
      
      The
Supply segment faces competition in wholesale markets for available energy,
capacity and ancillary services.  Competition is impacted by
electricity and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction by others of
generating assets, technological advances in power generation, the actions of
environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors.  The
Supply segment primarily competes with other electricity suppliers based on its
ability to aggregate generation supply at competitive prices from different
sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and
transmission from electric utilities and ISOs.  Competitors in
wholesale power markets include regulated utilities, industrial companies,
non-utility generators, unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities and
other energy marketers.  See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to
Supply Segment" and PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -
Overview" for more information concerning the risks faced with respect to
competition in deregulated energy markets.
      
      
        

               
      
              
                Power
      Supply
              
            
      
      
      PPL
Energy Supply's owned or controlled system capacity (winter rating) at
December 31, 2009 was 11,719 MW.  The capacity of generating
units is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and
physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect
changes in circumstances.  See "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment"
for a description of PPL Energy Supply's plants at December 31,
2009.
      
      During
2009, PPL Energy Supply's plants, excluding renewable facilities that are
discussed separately below, generated the following amounts of
electricity.
      
        
        
          

                
                  State
                
                
                  Millions of
      kWh
                
              
                 
      
                 
      
              
                
                  Pennsylvania
                
                
                  46,019
                
              
                
                  Montana
                
                
                  8,120
                
              
                
                  Maine
                
                
                  261
                
              
                
                  Connecticut
                
                
                  108
                
              
                
                  New
      York (a)
                
                 
      
              
                
                  Illinois
                
                
                  64
                
              
                
                  Total
                
                
                  54,572
                
              
        
        
        
          

                
                  (a)
                
                 
      
                
                  72
      million kWhs were excluded as tolling agreements were in place for 100% of
      the output.
                
              
        
        Of this generation, 49%
of the energy was from coal-fired stations, 32% from nuclear operations at the
Susquehanna station, 11% from oil/gas-fired stations and 8% from hydroelectric
stations.
      
      PPL
Energy Supply estimates that, on average, approximately 94% of its total
expected annual generation output for 2010 will be used to meet EnergyPlus'
committed contractual sales.  PPL Energy Supply has also entered into
commitments of varying quantities and terms for the years 2011 and
beyond.  These commitments are consistent with, and integral to, PPL
Energy Supply's business strategy to capture profits while managing exposure to
adverse movements in energy and fuel prices.  See "Commodity
Volumetric Activity" in Note 18 to the Financial Statements for the strategies
PPL Energy Supply employs to optimize the value of its wholesale and retail
energy portfolio.
      
      Subsidiaries
of PPL Energy Supply controlled existing renewable energy projects located in
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Vermont and New Hampshire with capacity of
28 MW.  PPL EnergyPlus sells the energy and RECs produced by
these plants to commercial, industrial and institutional
customers.  During 2009, these projects generated 145 million
kWhs.  In addition, a PPL Energy Supply subsidiary owns renewable
energy facilities with capacity of 6 MW that have power purchase agreements in
place.  During 2009, these projects generated 23 million
kWhs.
      
      PPL
EnergyPlus also purchases the full output from two wind farms in Pennsylvania
with a combined capacity of 50 MW.
      
      
        

               
      
              
                Fuel
      Supply
              
            
      
      
      Coal
      
      Pennsylvania
      
      PPL
Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, actively manages PPL's coal
requirements by purchasing coal principally from mines located in central and
northern Appalachia.
      
      During
2009, PPL Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, purchased 100% of
the coal delivered to PPL Generation's wholly owned Pennsylvania stations under
short-term and long-term contracts.  These contracts provided PPL
Generation 7.3 million tons of coal.  Contracts currently in place are
expected to provide 7.8 million tons in 2010.  The amount of coal in
inventory varies from time to time depending on market conditions and plant
operations.
      
      PPL
Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, entered into a long-term
coal purchase agreement with CONSOL Energy Inc.  The contract will
provide more than one-third of PPL Generation's projected annual coal needs for
the Pennsylvania power plants from 2010 through 2018.  PPL Generation
has other contracts that, in total, will provide additional coal supply for
PPL's projected annual needs from 2010 through 2013.
      
      A PPL
Generation subsidiary owns a 12.34% interest in the Keystone station and a
16.25% interest in the Conemaugh station.  The Keystone station
contracts with Keystone Fuels, LLC for its coal requirements.  In
2009, Keystone Fuels, LLC provided 4.8 million tons of coal to the Keystone
station.  The Conemaugh station requirements are purchased under
contract from Conemaugh Fuels, LLC.  In 2009, Conemaugh Fuels, LLC
provided 4.8 million tons of coal to the Conemaugh station.  A PPL
Generation subsidiary also owns a 12.34% equity interest in Keystone Fuels, LLC
and a 16.25% equity interest in Conemaugh Fuels, LLC.
      
      Scrubbers
were placed in service at Montour in 2008 and at Brunner Island in
2009.  At
December 31, 2009, scrubbers were in place at all of PPL Generation's
Pennsylvania coal stations.  Contracts are in place for all the
limestone requirements for all the scrubbers at PPL Generation's wholly owned
Pennsylvania coal stations through 2010.  It is projected that annual
limestone requirements will be approximately 600,000 tons.  During
2009, approximately 325,000 tons of limestone were delivered to PPL Generation's
wholly owned Pennsylvania stations under long-term contracts.
      
      Montana
      
      PPL
Montana has a 50% leasehold interest in Colstrip Units 1 and 2, and a 30%
leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 3.  NorthWestern owns a 30%
leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 4.  PPL Montana and NorthWestern
have a sharing agreement to govern each party's responsibilities regarding the
operation of Colstrip Units 3 and 4, and each party is responsible for 15% of
the respective operating and construction costs, regardless of whether a
particular cost is specified to Colstrip Unit 3 or 4.  However, each
party is responsible for its own fuel-related costs.  PPL Montana,
along with the other owners, is party to contracts to purchase 100% of its coal
requirements with defined coal quality characteristics and
specifications.  In 2007, PPL Montana entered into a long-term
purchase and supply agreement with the current supplier for Units 1 and 2
beginning January 1, 2010.  The contract is to provide these units
100% of their coal requirements through December 2014, and at least 85% of such
requirements from January 2015 through December 2019.  The coal supply
contract for Unit 3's requirements is in effect through December 2019. 
Scrubbers
are in place at all of these units.
      
      Coal
supply contracts are in place to purchase low-sulfur coal with defined quality
characteristics and specifications for PPL Montana's Corette
station.  The contracts covered 100% of the station's coal
requirements in 2009, and similar contracts are currently in place to supply
100% of the expected coal requirements through 2012.
      
      Oil and Natural
Gas
      
      Pennsylvania
      
      PPL
Generation's Martins Creek Units 3 and 4 burn both oil and natural
gas.  PPL EnergyPlus is responsible for procuring the oil and natural
gas supply for all PPL Generation operations.  During 2009, 100% of
the physical gas and oil requirements for the Martins Creek units were purchased
on the spot market.  At December 31, 2009, PPL EnergyPlus had no
long-term agreements for oil or gas.
      
      PPL
EnergyPlus has a short-term and long-term gas transportation contract in place
for approximately 30% of the maximum daily requirements of the Lower Mt. Bethel
facility.
      
      In 2008,
PPL EnergyPlus acquired the rights to an existing long-term tolling agreement
associated with the capacity and energy of the Ironwood facility.  PPL
EnergyPlus has long-term transportation contracts to serve approximately 25% of
Ironwood's maximum daily requirements, which begins in the fourth quarter of
2010.  For the first three quarters of 2010, Ironwood will be served
through a combination of transportation capacity release transactions and
delivered supply to the plant.  PPL EnergyPlus currently has no
long-term physical supply agreements to purchase natural gas for
Ironwood.
      
      Illinois
      
      At
December 31, 2009, there were no long-term delivery or supply agreements to
purchase natural gas for the University Park facility.
      
      Connecticut
      
      PPL
EnergyPlus has a long-term contract for approximately 40% of the expected
pipeline transportation requirements of the Wallingford facility, but has no
long-term physical supply agreement to purchase natural gas.
      
      Nuclear
      
      The
nuclear fuel cycle consists of several material and service
components:  the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium
concentrates; the conversion of these concentrates into uranium hexafluoride, a
gas component; the enrichment of the hexafluoride gas; the fabrication of fuel
assemblies for insertion and use in the reactor core; and the temporary storage
and final disposal of spent nuclear fuel.
      
      PPL
Susquehanna has a portfolio of supply contracts, with varying expiration dates,
for nuclear fuel materials and services.  These contracts are expected
to provide sufficient fuel to permit Unit 1 to operate into the first quarter of
2016 and Unit 2 to operate into the first quarter of 2015.  PPL
Susquehanna anticipates entering into additional contracts to ensure continued
operation of the nuclear units.
      
      Federal
law requires the federal government to provide for the permanent disposal of
commercial spent nuclear fuel.  Under the Federal Nuclear Waste Policy
Act, the DOE carried out an analysis of a site in Nevada for a permanent nuclear
waste repository.  There is no definitive date by which a repository
will be operational.  As a result, it was necessary to expand
Susquehanna's on-site spent fuel storage capacity.  To support this
expansion, PPL Susquehanna contracted for the design and construction of a spent
fuel storage facility employing dry cask fuel storage technology.  The
facility is modular, so that additional storage capacity can be added as
needed.  The facility began receiving spent nuclear fuel in
1999.  PPL Susquehanna estimates that there is sufficient storage
capacity in the spent nuclear fuel pools and the on-site spent fuel storage
facility at Susquehanna to accommodate spent fuel discharged through
approximately 2017 under current operating conditions.  If
necessary, the on-site spent fuel storage facility can be expanded, assuming
appropriate regulatory approvals are obtained.  If additional on-site
storage capacity is required, supplementary storage capacity will be
pursued.
      
      
        

               
      
              
                Franchise and
      Licenses
              
            
      
      
      See
"Background - Segment Information - Supply Segment - Energy Marketing" for a
discussion of PPL EnergyPlus' licenses in various states.  PPL
EnergyPlus also has an export license from the DOE to sell capacity and/or
energy to electric utilities in Canada.
      
      PPL
Susquehanna operates Units 1 and 2 pursuant to NRC operating
licenses.  In November 2009, the NRC approved PPL Susquehanna's
application for 20-year license renewals for each of the Susquehanna units,
extending the license expiration dates to 2042 for Unit 1 and to 2044 for Unit
2.  See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional
information.
      
      In 2008,
PPL Susquehanna received NRC approval for its request to increase the generation
capacity of the Susquehanna nuclear plant.  The total expected
capacity increase is 159 MW, of which PPL Susquehanna's 90% ownership share
would be 143 MW.  The first uprate for Unit 1 totaling 50 MW was
completed in 2008 and the second uprate is scheduled to be completed in
2010.  The first uprate for Unit 2 totaling 50 MW was completed in
2009, and the second uprate is scheduled to be completed in 2011.  The
remaining total capacity increase is 59 MW, of which PPL Susquehanna's share is
53 MW.  PPL
Susquehanna's share of the expected capital cost for the total uprate of 143 MW
is $345 million.
      
      In
October 2008, a PPL subsidiary submitted a COLA to the NRC for a new nuclear
generating unit (Bell Bend) to be built adjacent to the Susquehanna
plant.  The COLA was accepted for review by the NRC in December
2008.  In May 2009, the NRC published its official review schedule
that culminates with the issuance of Bell Bend's final safety evaluation report
in 2012.  See Note 8 to Financial Statements for additional
information.
      
      PPL
Holtwood operates the Holtwood hydroelectric generating station pursuant to a
license that was recently extended by the FERC to expire in 2030.  PPL
Holtwood operates the Wallenpaupack hydroelectric generating station pursuant to
a license renewed by the FERC in 2005 and expiring in 2044.  PPL
Holtwood also owns one-third of the capital stock of Safe Harbor Water Power
Corporation (Safe Harbor), which holds a project license that extends the
operation of its hydroelectric generating station until 2030.  The
total capacity of the Safe Harbor generating station is 421 MW, and PPL Holtwood
is entitled by contract to one-third of the total capacity.
      
      In 2007,
PPL requested FERC approval to expand its Holtwood plant by 125
MW.  In 2008, PPL withdrew the application in light of prevailing
economic conditions, including the high cost of capital and projections of
future energy prices.  PPL reconsidered its Holtwood expansion project
in view of the tax incentives and potential loan guarantees for renewable energy
projects contained in the Economic Stimulus Package.  In April 2009,
PPL resubmitted the expansion application to FERC and in October 2009, the FERC
approved the request to expand the plant and extended the operating license
through August 2030.  See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for
additional information.
      
      The 11
hydroelectric facilities and one storage reservoir in Montana are licensed by
the FERC.  These licenses expire periodically and the generating
facilities must be relicensed at such times.  The FERC license for the
Mystic facility expired in 2009 but has been extended, effective January 1,
2010, for an additional 40-year term.  The Thompson Falls and Kerr
licenses expire in 2025 and 2035, respectively; and the licenses for the nine
Missouri-Madison facilities expire in 2040.
      
      In
connection with the relicensing of these generation facilities, the FERC may,
under applicable law, relicense the original licensee or license a new licensee,
or the U.S. government may take over the facility.  If the original
licensee is not relicensed, it is compensated for its net investment in the
facility, not to exceed the fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable
damages to other property affected by the lack of relicensing.
      
      
        

              
                ·
              
              
                Pennsylvania Delivery
      Segment -
              
            
               
      
               
      
            
               
      
              
                Includes
      the regulated electric delivery operations of PPL
  Electric.
              
            
      
      
      
        

               
      
              
                PPL
      Electric
              
            
      
      
      PPL
Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million customers in a
10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties of eastern and central
Pennsylvania.  The largest cities in this territory are Allentown,
Bethlehem, Harrisburg, Hazleton, Lancaster, Scranton, Wilkes-Barre and
Williamsport.
      
      
        PPL
Electric is the sole electricity distribution provider in its service territory,
and also provides electricity supply in that territory as a
PLR.  As part of the PUC Final Order, PPL Electric agreed to
supply this electricity at predetermined capped rates through
2009.  PPL Electric entered into two contracts to purchase electricity
from PPL EnergyPlus sufficient for PPL Electric to meet its PLR obligation
through 2009 at the capped rates.  As discussed below, PPL Electric's
PLR obligation after 2009 is governed by the PUC pursuant to the Public Utility
Code as amended by Act 129, PLR regulations and a policy statement regarding
interpretation and implementation of those regulations.  Both the
regulations and the policy statement became effective in September
2007.  The PUC has approved PPL Electric's procurement plans for 2010
and for the period from January 2011 through May 2013.  Refer to Notes
14 and 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information.
      
      
      During
2009, about 98% of PPL Electric's operating revenues were derived from regulated
electricity delivery and supply as a PLR.  The remaining 2009
operating revenues were from wholesale revenues, primarily the sale to PPL
EnergyPlus of power purchased from NUGs.  During 2009, about 46% of
electricity delivery and PLR revenues were from residential customers, 37% from
commercial customers, 16% from industrial customers and 1% from other customer
classes.
      
      PPL
Electric's transmission facilities are operated as part of PJM, which operates
the electric transmission network and electric energy market in the mid-Atlantic
and Midwest regions of the U.S.  Bulk electricity is transmitted to
wholesale users throughout a geographic area including all or part of Delaware,
Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of
Columbia.  As of January 1, 2006, PPL Electric became a member of the
RFC.  The purpose of the RFC is to preserve and enhance electric
service reliability and security for the interconnected electric systems within
its territory and to be a regional entity under the framework of the
NERC.  The RFC's key functions are the development of regional
standards for reliable planning and operation of the bulk electric system and
non-discriminatory compliance monitoring and enforcement of both NERC and
regional standards.
      
      PJM
serves as a FERC-approved RTO in order to promote greater participation and
competition in the region.  An RTO, like an ISO, is a designation
provided by the FERC to a FERC-approved independent entity that operates the
transmission system and typically administers a competitive power
market.  PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity
and ancillary services.  A primary purpose of the RTO/ISO is to
separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market
participants that buy or sell electricity in the same
markets.  Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets,
but the RTO/ISO directs the control and operation of the transmission
facilities.  PPL Electric is entitled to fully recover from retail
customers the charges that it pays to PJM for transmission-related
services.  PJM imposes these charges pursuant to its FERC-approved
Open Access Transmission Tariff.
      
      PPL
Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of
its activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal
Power Act.
      
      PPL
Electric also is subject to the jurisdiction of certain federal, regional, state
and local regulatory agencies with respect to land use and other environmental
matters.  Certain operations of PPL Electric are subject to the
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 and comparable state
statutes.
      
      In
November 2004, Pennsylvania enacted the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard
(the AEPS), which requires electric distribution companies, such as PPL
Electric, and retail electric suppliers serving retail load to ultimately
provide 18% of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania from
alternative energy sources by 2020.  Under this state law, alternative
energy sources include hydro, wind, solar, waste coal, landfill methane and fuel
cells.  An electric distribution company will pay an alternative
compliance payment of $45 (or, in the case of solar, 200% of the average market
value of solar credits) for each MWh that it is short of its required
alternative energy supply percentage.  PPL Electric became subject to
the requirements of this legislation beginning in 2010.  In 2010, PPL
Electric is required to supply about 9% of the total amount of electricity it
delivers to its PLR customers from alternative energy sources.  PPL
Electric has purchased all of the supply required to meet its 2010 default
service obligations pursuant to a PUC-approved Competitive Bridge Plan (the
Plan).  Under the Plan, PPL Electric obtained full requirements
service which includes the generation or credits that PPL Electric will need to
comply with the AEPS in 2010.
      
      Act 129
became effective in October 2008.  The law creates an energy
efficiency and conservation program and smart metering technology requirements,
adopts new PLR electricity supply procurement rules, provides remedies for
market misconduct, and makes changes to the existing AEPS.
      
      See
"Regulatory Issues - Pennsylvania Activities" in Note 14 to the Financial
Statements for additional information regarding Act 129, other legislative and
regulatory impacts and PPL Electric's actions to provide default electricity
supply for periods after 2009.
      
      
        

               
      
              
                Competition
              
            
      
      
      Pursuant
to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the PUC, PPL
Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its service
area.  Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its
electricity distribution business.
      
      Effective
January 1, 2010, PPL Electric's rates for generation supply as a PLR are no
longer capped and the cost of electric generation is based on a competitive
solicitation process.  Prior to the expiration of the generation rate
caps, PPL Electric's customers' interest in purchasing generation supply from
other providers was limited because, in recent years, the long-term supply
agreement between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus provided a below-market cost
of generation supply for these customers.  As a result, a limited
amount of "shopping" occurred.  In 2010, several alternative suppliers
have offered to provide generation supply in PPL Electric's service
territory.  When its
customers purchase supply from these alternative suppliers or from PPL Electric
as PLR, the purchase of such supply has no significant impact on the operating
results of PPL Electric.  The cost to purchase PLR supply is passed
directly by PPL Electric to its customers without markup. PPL
Electric remains the distribution provider for all the customers in its service
territory and charges a regulated rate for the service of delivering that
electricity.
      
      
        

               
      
              
                Provider of Last
      Resort Supply
              
            
      
      
      The
Customer Choice Act requires electric distribution companies, like PPL Electric,
to act as a PLR of electricity supply and provides that electricity supply costs
will be recovered by such companies pursuant to regulations established by the
PUC.  In May 2007, the PUC approved PPL Electric's plan to procure
default electricity supply for 2010 - after its current supply agreements with
PPL EnergyPlus expire - for retail customers who do not choose an alternative
competitive supplier.  Pursuant to this plan, PPL Electric completed
six competitive supply solicitations and has contracted for all of the 2010
electricity supply it expects to need for residential, small commercial and
small industrial customers.  In October 2009, PPL Electric purchased
supply for fixed-price default service to large commercial and large industrial
customers who elect to take that service in 2010.  In November 2009,
PPL Electric purchased supply to provide hourly default service to large
commercial and industrial customers in 2010.  See "Energy Purchase
Commitments" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information
regarding PPL Electric's solicitations for 2010 and its actions to provide
default electricity supply for periods after 2010.
      
      
        

               
      
              
                Franchise and
      Licenses
              
            
      
      
      PPL
Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout its
service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in
corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies to which it has succeeded and
as a result of certification by the PUC.  PPL Electric is granted the
right to enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain
conditions.  In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance,
resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local
political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth.
      
      
        

              
                ·
              
              
                International Delivery
      Segment -
              
            
               
      
               
      
            
               
      
              
                Includes
      WPD, a regulated electricity distribution company in the
    U.K.
              
            
      
      
      WPD,
through indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, operates two of the 15 distribution
networks providing electricity service in the U.K.  The WPD
subsidiaries together serve approximately 2.6 million end-users in the
U.K.  WPD (South West) serves 1.5 million customers in a 5,560 square
mile area of southwest England.  WPD (South Wales) serves an area of
Wales opposite the Bristol Channel from WPD (South West)'s
territory.  Its 1.1 million customers occupy 4,550 square miles within
Wales.  WPD is headquartered in Bristol, England.  See
"Franchise and Licenses" for additional information about WPD's regulator,
Ofgem, which sets price controls and grants distribution licenses.
      
      
        

               
      
              
                Competition
              
            
      
      
      Although
WPD operates in non-exclusive concession areas in the U.K., it currently faces
little competition with respect to residential customers.  See
"Franchises and Licenses" for more information.
      
      
        

               
      
              
                Franchise and
      Licenses
              
            
      
      
      WPD is
authorized by the U.K. government to provide electric distribution services
within its concession areas and service territories, subject to certain
conditions and obligations.  For instance, WPD is subject to
governmental regulation of the prices it can charge and the quality of service
it must provide, and WPD can be fined or have its licenses revoked if it does
not meet the mandated standard of service.
      
      WPD
operates under distribution licenses granted, and price controls set, by
Ofgem.  The price control formula that governs WPD's allowed revenue
is normally determined every five years. Ofgem completed a rate review in
December 2009 for the five-year period from April 1, 2010 through March 31,
2015.  See PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's "Results of Operations -
Segment Results - International Delivery Segment" in "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for
additional information.
      
      SEASONALITY
      
      Demand
for and market prices of electricity are affected by weather.  As a
result, PPL's overall operating results in the future may fluctuate
substantially on a seasonal basis, especially when more severe weather
conditions such as heat waves or winter storms make such fluctuations more
pronounced.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on
the type and location of the facilities PPL owns and the terms of its contracts
to purchase or sell electricity.
      
      FINANCIAL
CONDITION
      
      See
PPL's, PPL Energy Supply's and PPL Electric's "Item 7. Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for this
information.
      
      CAPITAL
EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS
      
      See
"Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash
- - Capital Expenditures" in PPL's, PPL Energy Supply's and PPL Electric's "Item
7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" for information concerning projected capital expenditure
requirements for the years 2010-2012.  See Note 14 to the Financial
Statements for additional information concerning the potential impact on capital
expenditures from environmental matters.
      
      ENVIRONMENTAL
MATTERS
      
      PPL and
certain PPL subsidiaries, including PPL Electric and PPL Generation
subsidiaries, are subject to certain existing and developing federal, regional,
state and local laws and regulations with respect to air and water quality, land
use and other environmental matters.  See PPL's and PPL Energy
Supply's "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" in
"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" for
information concerning environmental capital expenditures during 2009 and
projected environmental capital expenditures for the years
2010-2012.  See "Environmental Matters" in Note 14 to the Financial
Statements for information regarding these laws and regulations and the status
of PPL's and its subsidiaries' compliance and remediation activities, as well as
legal and regulatory proceedings involving PPL and its
subsidiaries.
      
      PPL and
its subsidiaries are unable to predict the ultimate effect of evolving
environmental laws and regulations upon their existing and proposed facilities
and operations and competitive positions.  In complying with statutes,
regulations and actions by regulatory bodies involving environmental matters,
including, among other things, air and water quality, greenhouse gas emissions,
hazardous and solid waste management and disposal, and regulation of toxic
substances, PPL's subsidiaries may be required to modify, replace or cease
operating certain of their facilities.  PPL's subsidiaries may also
incur significant capital expenditures and operating expenses in amounts which
are not now determinable, but could be significant.
      
      EMPLOYEE
RELATIONS
      
      As of
December 31, 2009, PPL and its subsidiaries had the following full-time
employees.
      
      
        

              
                PPL
      Energy Supply
              
               
      
               
      
            
              
                PPL
      Generation
              
              
                2,665
              
               
      
            
              
                PPL
      EnergyPlus
              
              
                2,020
              
              
                 (a)
              
            
              
                PPL
      Global (primarily WPD)
              
              
                2,369
              
               
      
            
              
                Total
      PPL Energy Supply
              
              
                7,054
              
               
      
            
              
                PPL
      Electric
              
              
                2,166
              
               
      
            
              
                PPL
      Services and other
              
              
                1,269
              
               
      
            
              
                Total
      PPL
              
              
                10,489
              
               
      
            
      
      
      
        

              
                (a)
              
               
      
              
                Includes
      union employees of mechanical contracting subsidiaries, whose numbers tend
      to fluctuate due to the nature of this
business.
              
            
      
      
      Approximately
4,980, or 61%, of PPL's domestic workforce are members of labor unions, with
three IBEW locals representing approximately 3,540 employees.  Other
unions primarily represent employees of the mechanical
contractors.  The bargaining agreement with the largest IBEW local was
negotiated in May 2006 and expires in May 2010.  This agreement covers
approximately 3,200 employees.  The IBEW, representing approximately
260 employees at the Montana Colstrip power plants, is covered under a four-year
labor agreement expiring in April 2012.  In January 2008, a
four-year contract that expires in April 2012 was renegotiated with the IBEW
local of Montana that represents approximately 80 employees at the hydroelectric
facilities and at the Corette plant.
      
      Approximately
1,860, or 79%, of PPL's U.K. workforce are members of labor
unions.  WPD recognizes five unions, the largest of which represents
37% of its union workforce.  WPD's Electricity Business Agreement
covers approximately 1,810 union employees; it may be amended by agreement
between WPD and the unions and is terminable with 12 months notice by either
side.
      
      See
"Separation Benefits" in Note 12 to the Financial Statements for information on
a 2009 cost reduction initiative, which resulted in the elimination of
approximately 200 domestic management and staff positions at PPL.
      
      AVAILABLE
INFORMATION
      
      PPL's
Internet Web site is www.pplweb.com.  On the Investor Center page of
that Web site, PPL provides access to all SEC filings of PPL, PPL Energy Supply
and PPL Electric free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing
with the SEC.  Additionally, PPL registrants' filings are available at
the SEC's Web site (www.sec.gov) and at the SEC's Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.


        
          
            
          
        
      
      
ITEM 1A. RISK
FACTORS
      
      PPL, PPL
Energy Supply and PPL Electric face various risks associated with their
businesses.  While we have identified below the risks we currently
consider material, these risks are not the only risks that we
face.  Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently
deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.  Our
businesses, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be
materially adversely affected by any of these risks.  In addition,
this report also contains forward-looking and other statements about our
businesses that are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.  See
"Forward-Looking Information," "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and
Note 14 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the risks
described below and for other risks, uncertainties and factors that could impact
our businesses and financial results.
      
      As used
in this Item 1A., the terms "we," "our" and "us" generally refer to PPL and its
consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole, or to PPL Energy Supply and its
consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Supply and International
Delivery segment discussions, or PPL Electric and its consolidated subsidiaries
taken as a whole within the Pennsylvania Delivery segment
discussion.
      
      Risks
Related to Supply Segment
      
      (PPL and PPL Energy
Supply)
      
      We
are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with selling and
marketing products in the wholesale electricity markets.
      
      We
purchase and sell electricity in wholesale markets under market-based tariffs
authorized by the FERC throughout the U.S. and also enter into short-term
agreements to market available electricity and capacity from our generation
assets with the expectation of profiting from market price
fluctuations.  If we are unable to deliver firm capacity and
electricity under these agreements, we could be required to pay
damages.  These damages would generally be based on the difference
between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or electricity and the
contract price of any undelivered capacity or electricity.  Depending
on price volatility in the wholesale electricity markets, such damages could be
significant.  Extreme weather conditions, unplanned generation
facility outages, environmental compliance costs, transmission disruptions, and
other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause
significant increases in the market price of replacement capacity and
electricity.
       
      
        Our power
agreements typically include provisions requiring us to post collateral for the
benefit of our counterparties if the market price of energy varies from the
contract prices in excess of certain pre-determined amounts.  At
December 31, 2009, we had posted $242 million of collateral, in the form of
letters of credit, under these contracts.  At December 31, 2009,
we maintained $4.1 billion of liquidity facilities to provide for potential
additional collateral obligations.  We currently believe that we have
sufficient credit to fulfill our potential collateral obligations under these
power contracts.  Our obligation to post collateral could exceed the
amount of our facilities or our ability to increase our facilities could be
limited by financial market or other factors.
      We also
face credit risk that parties with whom we contract will default in their
performance, in which case we may have to sell our electricity into a
lower-priced market or make purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at
the time of contract.  Whenever feasible, we attempt to mitigate these
risks by various means, including agreements that require our counterparties to
post collateral for our benefit if the market price of energy varies from the
contract price in excess of certain pre-determined amounts.  However,
there can be no assurance that we will avoid counterparty nonperformance, which
could adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations to other parties,
which could in turn subject us to claims for damages.
      
      Adverse
changes in commodity prices and related costs may decrease our future energy
margins, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows.
      
      Our
energy margins, or the amount by which our revenues from the sale of power
exceed our costs to supply power, are impacted by changes in market prices for
electricity, fuel, fuel transportation, emission allowances, RECs, electricity
transmission and related congestion charges and other costs.  Unlike
most commodities, the limited ability to store electric power requires that it
must be consumed at the time of production.  As a result, wholesale
market prices for electricity may fluctuate substantially over relatively short
periods of time and can be unpredictable.  Among the factors that
influence such prices are:
      
      
        

              
                ·
              
              
                demand
      for electricity and supplies of electricity available from current or new
      generation resources;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                variable
      production costs, primarily fuel (and the associated fuel transportation
      costs) and emission allowance expense for the generation resources used to
      meet the demand for electricity;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                transmission
      capacity and service into, or out of, markets served;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                changes
      in the regulatory framework for wholesale power
markets;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                liquidity
      in the wholesale electricity market, as well as general credit worthiness
      of key participants in the market; and
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                weather
      and economic conditions impacting demand for electricity or the facilities
      necessary to deliver electricity.
              
            
      
      
      See
Exhibit 99(a) for more information concerning the market fluctuations in
wholesale energy, fuel and emission allowance prices over the past five
years.  The volatility of these business factors has increased
significantly with the current economic downturn.
      
      Our
risk management policy and programs relating to electricity and fuel prices,
interest rates, foreign currency and counterparties may not work as planned, and
we may suffer economic losses despite such programs.
      
      We
actively manage the market risk inherent in our generation energy marketing
activities, as well as our debt, foreign currency and counterparty credit
positions.  We have implemented procedures to monitor compliance with
our risk management policy and programs, including independent validation of
transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits,
portfolio stress test, sensitivity analyses and daily portfolio reporting of
various risk management metrics.  Nonetheless, our risk management
programs may not work as planned.  For example, actual electricity and
fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical
trends and assumptions upon which we based our risk management
calculations.  Additionally, unforeseen market disruptions could
decrease market depth and liquidity, negatively impacting our ability to enter
into new transactions.  We enter into financial contracts to hedge
commodity basis risk, and as a result are exposed to the risk that the
correlation between delivery points could change with actual physical
delivery.  Similarly, interest rates or foreign currency exchange
rates could change in significant ways that our risk management procedures were
not designed to address.  As a result, we cannot always predict the
impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events result
in greater losses or costs than our risk models predict or greater volatility in
our earnings and financial position.
      
      In
addition, our trading, marketing and hedging activities are exposed to
counterparty credit risk and market liquidity risk.  We have adopted a
credit risk management policy and program to evaluate counterparty credit
risk.  However, if counterparties fail to perform, the risk of which
has increased due to the economic downturn, we may be forced to enter into
alternative arrangements at then-current market prices.  In that
event, our financial results are likely to be adversely affected.
      
      We
do not always hedge against risks associated with electricity and fuel price
volatility.
      
      We
attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual electricity
sales obligations by either reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity
or purchasing the necessary financial or physical products and services through
competitive markets to satisfy our net firm sales contracts.  We also
routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and electricity purchase and sale
commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other
electricity-related commodities.  However, based on economic and other
considerations, we may not hedge the entire exposure of our operations from
commodity price volatility.  To the extent we do not hedge against
commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position may
be adversely affected.
      
      We
face intense competition in our energy supply business, which may adversely
affect our ability to operate profitably.
      
      Unlike
our regulated delivery businesses, our energy supply business is dependent on
our ability to operate in a competitive environment and is not assured of any
rate of return on capital investments through a predetermined rate
structure.  Competition is impacted by electricity and fuel prices,
new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets and
transmission capacity, technological advances in power generation, the actions
of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other
factors.  These competitive factors may negatively impact our ability
to sell electricity and related products and services, as well as the prices
that we may charge for such products and services, which could adversely affect
our results of operations and our ability to grow our business.
      
      We sell
our available energy and capacity into the competitive wholesale markets through
contracts with various durations.  Competition in the wholesale power
markets occurs principally on the basis of the price of products and, to a
lesser extent, on the basis of reliability and availability.  We
believe that the commencement of commercial operation of new electric facilities
in the regional markets where we own or control generation capacity and the
evolution of demand side management resources will continue to increase the
competitiveness of the wholesale electricity market in those regions, which
could have a material adverse effect on the prices we receive for
electricity.
      
      We also
face competition in the wholesale markets for electricity capacity and ancillary
services.  We primarily compete with other electricity suppliers based
on our ability to aggregate supplies at competitive prices from different
sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and
transmission from electric utilities and ISOs.  We also compete
against other energy marketers on the basis of relative financial condition and
access to credit sources, and our competitors may have greater financial
resources than we have.
      
      Competitors
in the wholesale power markets in which PPL Generation subsidiaries and PPL
EnergyPlus operate include regulated utilities, industrial companies,
non-utility generators and unregulated subsidiaries of regulated
utilities.  In the past, PUHCA significantly restricted mergers and
acquisitions and other investments in the electric utility
sector.  Entirely new competitors, including financial institutions,
have entered the energy markets as a result of the repeal of
PUHCA.  The repeal of PUHCA also may lead to consolidation in our
industry, resulting in competitors with significantly greater financial
resources than we have.
      
      Disruptions
in our fuel supplies could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to
operate our generation facilities.
      
      We
purchase fuel from a number of suppliers.  Disruption in the delivery
of fuel and other products consumed during the production of electricity (such
as lime, limestone and other chemicals), including disruptions as a result of
weather, transportation difficulties, global demand and supply dynamics, labor
relations, environmental regulations or the financial viability of our fuel
suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to operate our facilities, which
could result in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our
results of operations.
      
      Despite
federal and state deregulation initiatives, our supply business is still subject
to extensive regulation, which may increase our costs, reduce our revenues, or
prevent or delay operation of our facilities.
      
      Our
generation subsidiaries sell electricity into the wholesale
market.  Generally, our generation subsidiaries and our marketing
subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the FERC.  The FERC has
authorized us to sell generation from our facilities and power from our
marketing subsidiaries at market-based prices.  The FERC retains the
authority to modify or withdraw our market-based rate authority and to impose
"cost of service" rates if it determines that the market is not competitive,
that we possess market power or that we are not charging just and reasonable
rates.  Any reduction by the FERC in the rates we may receive or any
unfavorable regulation of our business by state regulators could materially
adversely affect our results of operations.  See "FERC Market-Based
Rate Authority" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements for information regarding
recent court decisions that could impact the FERC's market-based rate authority
program, and "PJM RPM Litigation" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements for
information regarding the FERC's proceedings that could impact PJM's capacity
pricing model.
      
      In
addition, the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of electricity
generation facilities require numerous permits, approvals, licenses and
certificates from federal, state and local governmental agencies.  We
may not be able to obtain or maintain all required regulatory
approvals.  If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory
approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approval or fail to
comply with any applicable law or regulation, the operation of our assets and
our sales of electricity could be prevented or delayed or become subject to
additional costs.
      
      Our
generation facilities may not operate as planned, which may increase our
expenses or decrease our revenues and, thus, have an adverse effect on our
financial performance.
      
         
        Our
ability to manage operational risk with respect to our generation plants is
critical to our financial performance.  Operation of our power plants
at expected capacity levels involves many risks, including the breakdown or
failure of equipment or processes, accidents, labor disputes and fuel
interruption.  In addition, weather and natural disasters can disrupt
our generation plants.  Weather conditions also have a direct impact
on the river flows required to operate our hydroelectric plants at expected
capacity levels.  Depending on the timing and duration of both planned
and unplanned, complete or partial outages at our power plants (in particular,
if such outages are during peak periods or during periods of, or caused by,
severe weather), or if our planned uprates at power plants are not completed as
scheduled, our revenues from expected energy sales could significantly
decrease and our expenses significantly increase, and we could be required to
purchase power at then-current market prices to satisfy our energy sales
commitments or, in the alternative, pay penalties and damages for failure to
satisfy them.  Many of our generating units are reaching mid-life, and
we face the potential for more frequent unplanned outages and the possibility of
planned outages of longer duration to accommodate significant investments in
major component replacements at these facilities.
      Changes
in technology may negatively impact the value of our power plants.
      
      A basic
premise of our business is that generating electricity at central power plants
achieves economies of scale and produces electricity at relatively low
prices.  There are alternate technologies to produce electricity, most
notably fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic (solar) cells, the
development of which has been expanded due to global climate change
concerns.  Research and development activities are ongoing to seek
improvements in alternate technologies.  It is possible that advances
will reduce the cost of alternate methods of electricity production to a level
that is equal to or below that of certain central station
production.  Also, as new technologies are developed and become
available, the quantity and pattern of electricity usage (the "demand") by
customers could decline, with a corresponding decline in revenues derived by
generators.  These alternative energy sources could result in a
decline to the dispatch and capacity factors of our plants.  As a
result of all of these factors, the value of our generation facilities could be
significantly reduced.
      
      
        The
load following contracts that PPL EnergyPlus is awarded do not provide for
specific levels of load, and actual load significantly below or above our
forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins.
        
        We
generally hedge our load following obligations with energy purchases from third
parties, and to a lesser extent with its owned generation.  If the
actual load is significantly lower than the expected load, we may be required to
resell power at a lower price than was purchased to supply the load obligation,
resulting in a financial loss.  Alternatively, a significant increase
in load could adversely affect our energy margins because we are required under
the terms of the load following contracts to provide the energy necessary to
fulfill increased demand at the contract price, which could be lower than the
cost to procure additional energy on the open market.  Therefore, any
significant decrease or increase in load compared to our forecasts, could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
position.
        Our earnings may be affected by
whether we decide to, or are able to, continue to enter into or renew long-term
power sale, fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements to mitigate market
price and supply risk.
      
      As a
result of the PLR contracts and certain other agreements, a substantial portion
of our generation production and capacity value was committed through 2009 under
power sales agreements of various terms that included fixed prices for electric
power.  With the expiration of these agreements we have been actively
selling our generation at fixed prices in the wholesale energy market and
participating in load-following or full requirements auctions with utility
companies in the PJM, New England Power Pool and Midwest ISO
regions.  In connection with these activities, we have entered into
longer-term fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements that include fixed
prices for a significant portion of our forecasted needs.  Whether we
decide to, or are able to, continue to enter into such agreements or renew
existing agreements in the future, prevailing market conditions will affect our
financial performance.  For example, in the absence of long-term power
sales agreements, we would sell the energy, capacity and other products from our
facilities in the competitive wholesale power markets under contracts of shorter
duration at then-current market prices.  Current forward prices
for electricity are lower than the prices under some of our existing power sales
agreements.  In addition, if we do not secure or maintain favorable
fuel purchase and transportation agreements for our power generation facilities,
our fuel costs (and associated fuel transportation costs) could exceed the
revenues we derive from our energy sales.  Given the volatility and
potential for material differences between actual electricity prices and fuel
and other costs, if we do not secure or maintain long-term electricity sales and
fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements, our margins will be subject to
increased volatility and, depending on future electricity and fuel costs (and
associated fuel transportation costs), our financial results may be materially
adversely affected.
      
      If
market deregulation is reversed or discontinued, our business prospects and
financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
      
      In some
markets, state legislators, government agencies and other interested parties
have made proposals to change the use of market-based pricing, re-regulate areas
of these markets that have previously been deregulated or permit electricity
delivery companies to construct or acquire generating facilities.  The
ISOs that oversee the transmission systems in certain wholesale electricity
markets have from time to time been authorized to impose price limitations and
other mechanisms to address volatility in the power markets.  These
types of price limitations and other mechanisms may reduce profits that our
wholesale power marketing and trading business would have realized under
competitive market conditions absent such limitations and
mechanisms.  Although we generally expect electricity markets to
continue to be competitive, other proposals to re-regulate our industry may be
made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring
process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in states
in which we currently, or may in the future, operate.
      
      We
rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to
deliver our wholesale electricity.  If transmission is disrupted, or
not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and
deliver power may be hindered.
      
      We depend
on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and
other energy companies to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to the
wholesale market, as well as the natural gas we purchase for use in our electric
generation facilities.  If transmission is disrupted (as a result of
weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by
ISOs, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell
and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or
we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms.
      
      The FERC
has issued regulations that require wholesale electric transmission services to
be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis.  Although
these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market
transactions for electricity, there is the potential that fair and equal access
to transmission systems will not be available or that transmission capacity will
not be available in the amounts we desire.  We cannot predict the
timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of
transmission facilities in specific markets or whether ISOs in applicable
markets will efficiently operate transmission networks and provide related
services.
      
      Our
costs to comply with existing and new environmental laws are expected to
continue to be significant, and we plan to incur significant capital
expenditures for pollution control improvements that, if delayed, would
adversely affect our profitability and liquidity.
      
      Our
business is subject to extensive federal, state and local statutes, rules and
regulations relating to environmental protection.  To comply with
existing and future environmental requirements and as a result of voluntary
pollution control measures we may take, we have spent and expect to spend
substantial amounts in the future on environmental control and
compliance.
      
      In order
to comply with existing and recently enacted federal and state environmental
laws and regulations primarily governing air emissions from coal-fired plants,
in 2005 PPL began a program to install scrubbers and other pollution control
equipment (primarily aimed at sulfur dioxide, particulate and nitrogen oxides
with co-benefits for mercury emissions reduction).  The cost to
install this equipment was approximately $1.6 billion, of which $19 million
remains to be spent.  The remaining unspent balance is included in the
2010 through 2012 capital budget.  The scrubbers at our Montour and
Brunner Island plants are now in service.  Many states and
environmental groups have challenged certain federal laws and regulations
relating to air emissions as not being sufficiently strict.  As a
result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be adopted that
impose more stringent restrictions than are currently in effect, which could
require us to significantly increase capital expenditures for pollution control
equipment.
      
      We may
not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals
necessary for our planned capital projects or which are otherwise necessary to
our business.  If there is a delay in obtaining any required
environmental regulatory approval or if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply
with any such approval, operations at our affected facilities could be halted or
subjected to additional costs.  Furthermore, at some of our older
generating facilities it may be uneconomic for us to install necessary
equipment, which could cause us to close those units.
      
      Additionally,
the expanding national and international focus on climate change and the related
desire to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions has lead to
numerous federal legislative and regulatory proposals, and several states
already have passed legislation capping carbon dioxide emissions.  The
continuation of this trend may heighten or make more likely the risks identified
above.
      
      For more
information regarding environmental matters, including existing and proposed
federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations to which we are
subject, see "Environmental Matters - Domestic" in Note 14 to the Financial
Statements.
      
      We
are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including the risk that our
Susquehanna nuclear plant could become subject to revised security or safety
requirements that would increase our capital and operating expenditures, and
uncertainties associated with decommissioning our plant at the end of its
licensed life.
      
      Nuclear
generation accounted for about 32% of our 2009 generation output.  The
risks of nuclear generation generally include:
      
      
        

              
                ·
              
              
                the
      potential harmful effects on the environment and human health from the
      operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of
      radioactive materials;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                limitations
      on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover
      losses and liabilities that might arise in connection with nuclear
      operations; and
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                uncertainties
      with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning
      nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives.  The licenses
      for our two nuclear units expire in 2042 and 2044.  See Note 20
      to the Financial Statements for additional information on the ARO related
      to the decommissioning.
              
            
      
      
      The NRC
has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing requirements,
including security, safety and employee-related requirements for the operation
of nuclear generation facilities.  In the event of noncompliance, the
NRC has authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon
its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is
achieved.  In addition, revised security or safety requirements
promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital or operating
expenditures at our Susquehanna nuclear plant.  In addition, although
we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our Susquehanna
plant, if an incident did occur, any resulting operational loss, damages and
injuries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash
flows or financial condition.
      
      Risks
Related to International Delivery Segment
      
      (PPL and PPL Energy
Supply)
      
      Our
U.K. delivery business is subject to risks with respect to rate regulation and
operational performance.
      
      Our U.K.
delivery business is rate regulated and operates under an incentive-based
regulatory framework.  In addition, its ability to manage operational
risk is critical to its financial performance.  Disruption to the
distribution network could reduce profitability both directly through the higher
costs for network restoration and also through the system of penalties and
rewards that Ofgem has in place relating to customer service
levels.
      
      In
December 2009, Ofgem completed its rate review for the five-year period from
April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2015, thus reducing regulatory rate risk in the
International Delivery Segment until the next rate review which will be
effective April 1, 2015.  The results of the rate review are further
discussed in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations."  The
regulated income of the International Delivery Segment and also the RAB are to
some extent linked to movements in the Retail Price Index
(RPI).  Reductions in the RPI would adversely impact revenues and the
debt/RAB ratio.
      
      Our
U.K. delivery business exposes us to risks related to U.K. laws and regulations,
taxes, economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and
political conditions and policies of the U.K. government.  These risks
may reduce the results of operations from our U.K. delivery
business.
      
      The
acquisition, financing, development and operation of projects in the U.K. entail
significant financial risks including:
      
      
        

              
                ·
              
              
                changes
      in laws or regulations relating to U.K. operations, including tax laws and
      regulations;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                changes
      in government policies, personnel or approval
  requirements;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                changes
      in general economic conditions affecting the U.K.;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                regulatory
      reviews of tariffs for distribution companies;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                severe
      weather and natural disaster impacts on the electric sector and our
      assets;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                changes
      in labor relations;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                limitations
      on foreign investment or ownership of projects and returns or
      distributions to foreign investors;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                limitations
      on the ability of foreign companies to borrow money from foreign lenders
      and lack of local capital or loans;
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                fluctuations
      in currency exchange rates and in converting U.K. revenues to U.S.
      dollars, which can increase our expenses and/or impair our ability to meet
      such expenses, and difficulty moving funds out of the country in which the
      funds were earned; and
              
            
              
                ·
              
              
                compliance
      with U.S. foreign corrupt practices
laws.
              
            
      
      
      Risks
Related to Pennsylvania Delivery Segment
      
      (PPL and PPL
Electric)
      
      Regulators
may not approve the rates we request.
      
      Our
Pennsylvania delivery business is rate-regulated.  While such
regulation is generally premised on the recovery of prudently incurred costs,
including energy supply costs for customers, and a reasonable rate of return on
invested capital, the rates that we may charge our delivery customers are
subject to authorization of the applicable regulatory
authorities.  Our Pennsylvania delivery business is subject to
substantial capital expenditure requirements over the next several years, which
will require rate increase requests to the regulators.  There is no
guarantee that the rates authorized by regulators will match our actual costs or
provide a particular return on invested capital at any given time.
      
      Our
transmission and distribution facilities may not operate as planned, which may
increase our expenses or decrease our revenues and, thus, have an adverse effect
on our financial performance.
      
      Our
ability to manage operational risk with respect to our transmission and
distribution systems is critical to the financial performance of our delivery
business.  Our delivery business also faces several risks, including
the breakdown or failure of or damage to equipment or processes (especially due
to severe weather or natural disasters), accidents and labor disputes and other
factors.  Operation of our delivery systems below our expectations may
result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance
costs.
      
      We
may be subject to higher transmission costs and other risks as a result of PJM's
regional transmission expansion plan (RTEP) process.
      
      PJM and
the FERC have the authority to require upgrades or expansion of the regional
transmission grid, which can result in substantial expenditures for transmission
owners.  As discussed in Note 8 to the Financial Statements, we expect
to make substantial expenditures to construct the Susquehanna-Roseland
transmission line that PJM has determined is necessary for the reliability of
the regional transmission grid.  Although the FERC has granted our
request for incentive rate treatment of such facilities, we cannot predict the
date when these facilities will be in service or whether delays may occur due to
public opposition or other factors.  Delays could result in
significant cost increases for these facilities and decreased reliability of the
regional transmission grid.  As a result, we cannot predict the
ultimate financial or operational impact of this project or other RTEP projects
on PPL Electric.
      
      We
could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory
reliability standards.
      
      Under the
Energy Policy Act, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system
are now subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC and
enforced by the FERC.  Compliance with reliability standards may
subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures, and
violations of these standards could result in substantial
penalties.
      
      We
could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to Pennsylvania
Conservation and Energy Efficiency Programs.
      
      Act 129
became effective in October 2008.  This law
created requirements for energy efficiency and conservation programs and for the
use of smart metering technology, imposed new PLR electricity supply procurement
rules, provided remedies for market misconduct, and made changes to the existing
Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard.  Utilities not meeting the
requirements of Act 129 are subject to significant penalties that cannot be
recovered in rates.  The law also requires electric utilities to meet
specified goals for reduction in customer electricity usage and peak demand by
specified dates (2011 and 2013).  Although we expect to meet these
requirements, numerous factors outside of our control could prevent compliance
with these requirements and result in penalties to us.  See
"Regulatory Issues - Energy Policy Act of 2005 - Reliability Standards" in Note
14 to the Financial Statements for additional information.
      
      Rate
deregulation remains subject to political risks.
      
      Although
prior initiatives have not resulted in the enactment of legislation, the
possibility remains that certain Pennsylvania legislators could introduce
legislation to extend generation rate caps or otherwise limit cost recovery
through rates for Pennsylvania utilities after the end of applicable transition
periods, which in PPL Electric's case was December 31, 2009.  If
such legislation were introduced and ultimately enacted, PPL Electric could face
severe financial consequences including operating losses and significant cash
flow shortfalls.  In addition, continuing uncertainty regarding PPL
Electric's ability to recover its market supply and other costs of operating its
business could adversely affect its credit quality, financing costs and
availability of credit facilities necessary to operate its
business.
      
      Other
Risks Related to All Segments
      
      (PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL
Electric)
      
      We
will selectively pursue growth of generation and transmission and distribution
capacity, which involves a number of uncertainties and may not achieve the
desired financial results.
      
      We will
pursue expansion of our generation and transmission and distribution capacity
over the next several years through power uprates at certain of our existing
power plants, the potential construction of new power plants, the potential
acquisition of existing plants, the potential construction or acquisition of
transmission and distribution projects and capital investments to upgrade
transmission and distribution infrastructure.  We will rigorously
scrutinize opportunities to expand our generating capability and may determine
not to proceed with any expansion.  These types of projects involve
numerous risks.  Any planned power uprates could result in cost
overruns, reduced plant efficiency and higher operating and other
costs.  With respect to the construction of new plants, the
acquisition of existing plants, or the construction or acquisition of
transmission and distribution projects, we may be required to expend significant
sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, resource exploration, legal and
other expenses before it can be established whether a project is feasible,
economically attractive or capable of being financed.  The success of
both a new or acquired project would likely be contingent, among other things,
upon the negotiation of satisfactory operating contracts, obtaining acceptable
financing, maintaining acceptable credit ratings, as well as receipt of required
and appropriate governmental approvals.  If we were unable to complete
construction or expansion of a facility, we would generally be unable to recover
our investment in the project.  Furthermore, we might be unable to run
any new or acquired plants as efficiently as projected, which could result in
higher than projected operating and other costs and reduced
earnings.
      
      The
economic and financial markets in which we operate could adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations.
      
      In 2008,
conditions in the financial markets became disruptive to the processes of
managing credit risk, responding to liquidity needs, measuring at fair value
derivatives and other financial instruments and managing market
risk.  The contraction of liquidity in the wholesale energy markets
and accompanying significant decline in wholesale energy prices significantly
impacted our earnings during the second half of 2008 and the first half of
2009.  The breadth and depth of these negative economic conditions had
a wide-ranging impact on the U.S. and international business environment,
including our businesses, and may continue to do so.  As a result of
the economic downturn, demand for energy commodities has declined
significantly.  This reduced demand will continue to impact the key
domestic wholesale energy markets we serve (such as PJM) and our Pennsylvania
delivery business, especially industrial customer demand.  The
combination of lower demand for power and natural gas and other fuels has put
downward price pressure on the wholesale energy market in general, further
impacting our energy marketing results.  In general, current economic
and commodity market conditions will continue to challenge the predictability
regarding our unhedged future energy margins, liquidity and overall financial
condition.
      
      Our
businesses are heavily dependent on credit and capital, among other things, for
providing collateral to support hedging in our energy marketing
business.  Global bank credit capacity was reduced and the cost of
renewing or establishing new credit facilities increased significantly in 2008,
primarily as a result of general credit concerns nationwide, thereby introducing
uncertainties as to our businesses' ability to enter into long-term energy
commitments or reliably estimate the longer-term cost and availability of
credit.  Although bank credit conditions have improved since mid-2009,
and we currently expect to have adequate access to needed credit and capital
based on current conditions, deterioration in the financial markets could
adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity.
      
      The
current condition of the economic and financial markets in which we operate is
expected to continue to impact numerous other aspects of our business operations
discussed elsewhere in this Risk Factor section.
      
      Our
operating results could fluctuate on a seasonal basis, especially as a result of
severe weather conditions.
      
      Our
businesses are subject to seasonal demand cycles.  For example, in
some markets demand for, and market prices of, electricity peak during hot
summer months, while in other markets such peaks occur in cold winter
months.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may
fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis if weather conditions such as heat
waves, extreme cold weather or severe storms occur.  The patterns of
these fluctuations may change depending on the type and location of our
facilities and the terms of our contracts to sell electricity.
      
      We
cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings and investigations currently
being conducted with respect to our current and past business
activities.  An adverse determination could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.
      
      We are
involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation and subject to ongoing
state and federal investigations arising out of our business operations, the
most significant of which are summarized in "Legal Matters," "Regulatory Issues"
and in "Environmental Matters - Domestic" in Note 14 to the Financial
Statements.  We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters,
nor can we reasonably estimate the costs or liability that could potentially
result from a negative outcome in each case.
      
      We
may need significant additional financing to pursue growth
opportunities.
      
      We
continually review potential acquisitions and development projects and may enter
into significant acquisition agreements or development commitments in the
future.  An acquisition agreement or development commitment may
require access to substantial capital from outside sources on acceptable
terms.  We also may need external financing to fund capital
expenditures, including capital expenditures necessary to comply with
environmental or other regulatory requirements.  Our ability to
arrange financing and our cost of capital are dependent on numerous factors,
including general economic conditions, credit availability and our financial
performance.  The inability to obtain sufficient financing on terms
that are acceptable to us could adversely affect our ability to pursue
acquisition and development opportunities and fund capital
expenditures.
      
      A
downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access
capital and increase the cost of maintaining our credit facilities and any new
debt.
      
      Our
current credit ratings by Moody's, Fitch and S&P, including a January 2009
review by S&P that resulted in a negative outlook for us, are listed in
"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit
Ratings."  While we do not expect these ratings to limit our ability
to fund short-term liquidity needs or access new long-term debt, any ratings
downgrade could increase our short-term borrowing costs and negatively affect
our ability to fund short-term liquidity needs and access new long-term
debt.  See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and
Capital Resources - Ratings Triggers" for additional information on the impact
of a downgrade in our credit rating.
      
      Significant
increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including health care and
pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and
liquidity.
      
      We
continually focus on limiting and reducing where possible our operation and
maintenance expenses.  However, we expect to continue to face
increased cost pressures in our operations. Increased costs of materials and
labor may result from general inflation, increased regulatory requirements,
especially in respect of environmental protection, the need for higher cost
expertise in the workforce or other factors.  In addition, pursuant to
collective bargaining agreements, we are contractually committed to provide
specified levels of health care and pension benefits to certain current
employees and retirees.  We provide a similar level of benefits to our
management employees.  These benefits give rise to significant
expenses.  Due to general inflation with respect to such costs, the
aging demographics of our workforce and other factors, we have experienced
significant health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our health
care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase
despite measures that we have taken and expect to take to require employees and
retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care
benefits.  In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant
costs with respect to the defined benefit pension plans for our employees and
retirees.  The measurement of our expected future health care and
pension obligations, costs and liabilities is highly dependent on a variety of
assumptions, most of which relate to factors beyond our
control.  These assumptions include investment returns, interest
rates, health care cost trends, benefit improvements, salary increases and the
demographics of plan participants.  If our assumptions prove to be
inaccurate, our future costs and cash contribution requirements to fund these
benefits could increase significantly.
      
      There
is a risk that we may be required to record impairment charges in the future for
certain of our investments, which could adversely affect our
earnings.
      
      Under
GAAP, we are required to test our recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual
basis, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that these assets
may be impaired.  Although no goodwill impairments were recorded based
on our annual review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we are unable to predict
whether future impairment charges may be necessary.
      
      We also
review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be
recoverable.  During 2009, PPL recorded impairment charges related to
certain sulfur dioxide emission allowances and the Long Island generation
business that is being sold.  During 2008, PPL recorded impairment
charges related to a cancelled hydroelectric expansion project, certain emission
allowances and its natural gas distribution and propane businesses that were
sold in 2008.  During 2007, PPL impaired certain transmission rights,
certain domestic telecommunications assets, certain assets of the natural gas
distribution and propane businesses, and the net assets of our Bolivian
businesses prior to their sale in 2007.  See Notes 8, 9 and 17 to the
Financial Statements for additional information on these charges.  We
are unable to predict whether impairment charges, or other losses on sales of
other assets or businesses, may occur in future years.
      
        
          
        
      
       
      
ITEM 1B