Item 1A. Risk Factors" and in "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the
following are among the important factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from the forward-looking statements:
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              market
      demand and prices for energy, capacity and fuel;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              weather
      conditions affecting generation production, customer energy use and
      operating costs;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              competition
      in retail and wholesale power markets;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              liquidity
      of wholesale power markets;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              defaults
      by our counterparties under our energy, fuel or other power product
      contracts;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      effect of any business or industry restructuring;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      profitability and liquidity, including access to capital markets and
      credit facilities, of PPL and its subsidiaries;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              new
      accounting requirements or new interpretations or applications of existing
      requirements;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              operation,
      availability and operating costs of existing generation
      facilities;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              transmission
      and distribution system conditions and operating costs;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              current
      and future environmental conditions and requirements and the related costs
      of compliance, including environmental capital expenditures, emission
      allowance costs and other expenses;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              significant
      delays in the ongoing installation of pollution control equipment at
      certain coal-fired generating units in Pennsylvania due to weather
      conditions, contractor performance or other reasons;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              market
      prices of commodity inputs for ongoing capital
    expenditures;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              collective
      labor bargaining negotiations;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              development
      of new projects, markets and technologies;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              performance
      of new ventures;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              asset
      acquisitions and dispositions;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              political,
      regulatory or economic conditions in states, regions or countries where
      PPL or its subsidiaries conduct business;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              any
      impact of hurricanes or other severe weather on PPL and its subsidiaries,
      including any impact on fuel prices;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              receipt
      of necessary governmental permits, approvals and rate
    relief;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              new
      state, federal or foreign legislation, including new tax
      legislation;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              state,
      federal and foreign regulatory developments;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      impact of any state, federal or foreign investigations applicable to PPL
      and its subsidiaries and the energy industry;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              capital
      market conditions, including changes in interest rates, and decisions
      regarding capital structure;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              stock
      price performance of PPL;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      market prices of equity securities and the impact on pension costs and
      resultant cash funding requirements for defined benefit pension
      plans;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              securities
      and credit ratings;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              foreign
      currency exchange rates;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      outcome of litigation against PPL and its subsidiaries;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              potential
      effects of threatened or actual terrorism or war or other hostilities;
      and
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      commitments and liabilities of PPL and its
  subsidiaries.
            
          
      
    
    
    Any such
forward-looking statements should be considered in light of such important
factors and in conjunction with other documents of PPL, PPL Energy Supply and
PPL Electric on file with the SEC.
    
    New
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
described in forward-looking statements emerge from time to time, and it is not
possible for PPL, PPL Energy Supply or PPL Electric to predict all of such
factors, or the extent to which any such factor or combination of factors may
cause actual results to differ from those contained in any forward-looking
statement.  Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date
on which such statement is made, and PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric
undertake no obligation to update the information contained in such statement to
reflect subsequent developments or information.
    
      
        
          
        
      
      PART
I
    
    
    ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
    
    BACKGROUND
    
    PPL Corporation,
headquartered in Allentown, PA, is an energy and utility holding company that
was incorporated in 1994.  Through its subsidiaries, PPL generates
electricity from power plants in the northeastern and western U.S.; markets
wholesale or retail energy primarily in the northeastern and western portions of
the U.S. and delivers electricity to approximately 4 million customers in
Pennsylvania and the U.K.  PPL's significant subsidiaries are shown
below:
     
    
    
    See
Exhibit 99(a) in Item 15 for a listing of the current corporate
organization.  In addition to PPL Corporation, the other SEC
registrants included in this filing are:
    
    PPL Energy Supply, LLC, an
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of PPL formed in 2000, is an energy company
engaged through its subsidiaries in the generation and marketing of power,
primarily in the northeastern and western power markets of the U.S. and in the
delivery of electricity in the U.K.  PPL Energy Supply's major
operating subsidiaries are PPL Generation, PPL EnergyPlus and PPL
Global.  PPL Energy Supply owns or controls 11,418 MW of electric
power generation capacity and has current plans to implement capital projects at
certain of its existing generation facilities in Pennsylvania and Montana to
provide 331 MW of additional generating capacity by 2012.
    
    PPL Electric Utilities
Corporation, incorporated in 1920, is a direct subsidiary of PPL and a
regulated public utility.  PPL Electric provides electricity delivery
service in its service territory in Pennsylvania and provides electricity supply
to retail customers in that territory as a PLR under the Customer Choice
Act.
    
    Segment
Information
    
    PPL is
organized into segments consisting of Supply, Pennsylvania Delivery and
International Delivery.  PPL Energy Supply's segments consist of
Supply and International Delivery.  PPL Electric operates in a single
business segment.  See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for
financial information about the segments and geographic financial
data.
    
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              Supply Segment
      -
            
          
          
             
      
             
      
          
          
             
      
            
              Owns
      and operates domestic power plants to generate electricity; markets this
      electricity and other power purchases to deregulated wholesale and retail
      markets; and acquires and develops domestic generation
      projects.  Consists primarily of the activities of PPL
      Generation and PPL EnergyPlus.
            
          
      
    
    
    PPL has
generation assets that are located in the eastern and western
markets.  The eastern generation assets are located in the
Northeast/Mid-Atlantic energy markets - including PJM, the New York ISO, ISO New
England and the Mid-American Interconnection Network.  PPL's western
generating capacity is located in the markets within the Western Electricity
Coordinating Council.
    
    
      
          
             
      
            
              PPL
      Generation
            
          
      
    
    
    PPL
Generation owned or controlled generating capacity of 11,418 MW at December 31,
2007.  Through subsidiaries, PPL Generation owns and operates power
plants in Pennsylvania, Montana, Illinois, Connecticut, New York and
Maine.  See "Item 2. Properties" for a complete listing of PPL's
generating capacity.
    
    The
Pennsylvania generation plants had a total capacity for PPL Generation of
9,076 MW at December 31, 2007.  These plants are fueled by
uranium, coal, natural gas, oil and water.  The electricity from these
plants is sold to PPL EnergyPlus under FERC-jurisdictional power purchase
agreements.
    
    PPL's
U.S. generation subsidiaries are EWGs, which sell electricity into the wholesale
market.  PPL's EWGs are subject to regulation by the FERC, which has
authorized these EWGs to sell generation from their facilities at market-based
prices.
    
    PPL
Susquehanna, a subsidiary of PPL Generation, owns a 90% undivided interest in
each of the two nuclear-fueled generating units at its Susquehanna station;
Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc. owns the remaining 10% undivided
interest.  PPL's 90% share of Susquehanna's generating capacity was
2,117 MW at December 31, 2007.
    
    PPL
Generation operates its Pennsylvania and Illinois power plants in conjunction
with PJM.  PPL Generation's Pennsylvania power plants, PPL
Generation's Illinois 557 MW natural gas-fired generating station and PPL
EnergyPlus are members of the RFC.  Refer to "Pennsylvania Delivery
Segment" for information regarding PJM's operations and functions and the
RFC.
    
    The
Montana coal-fired and hydro-powered stations have a capacity of 1,287
MW.  PPL Montana's power plants are parties to the Western Electricity
Coordinating Council Agreement.
    
    The Maine
oil-fired and hydro-powered stations have a total capacity of 96
MW.  The Maine generating assets are operated in conjunction with ISO
New England and are parties to the Northeast Power Coordinating Council
Agreement.  See Note 9 for information on the possible sale of three
hydroelectric dams.
    
    The
Connecticut natural gas-fired station has a total capacity of 243 MW and is
operated in conjunction with ISO New England and is party to the Northeast Power
Coordinating Council Agreement.
    
    The New
York natural gas-fired generating stations have a combined capacity of 159
MW.  These generating stations are operated in connection with the New
York ISO and are parties to the Northeast Power Coordinating Council
Agreement.
    
    PPL
Generation has current plans to implement capital projects at certain of its
generation facilities in Pennsylvania and Montana that would provide 331 MW of
additional generation capacity by 2012.  See "Item 2. Properties" for
additional information regarding these capital projects.
    
    In 2003,
PPL finalized an agreement with the New Jersey DEP and the Pennsylvania DEP that
included the shutdown of the two 150 MW coal-fired generating units at the
Martins Creek generating facility.  This shutdown occurred in
September 2007.
    
    Refer to
the "Power Supply" section for additional information regarding electricity
generated by the various power plants operated by PPL Generation and to the
"Fuel Supply" section for a discussion of fuel requirements and contractual
arrangements for fuel.
    
    A
subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply develops renewable energy plants on customer
sites using technologies such as small turbines, reciprocating engines and
photovoltaic solar panels.  As of December 31, 2007, another
subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply owned approximately 23 MW of installed capacity
from these projects, serving commercial and industrial customers.
    
    PPL
Generation's subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of certain federal,
regional, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to air and water
quality, land use and other environmental matters.  PPL Susquehanna is
subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of the
Susquehanna units.  Certain of PPL Generation's other subsidiaries,
including PPL Montana, are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection
with the operation of their fossil plants with respect to certain level and
density monitoring devices.
    
    Certain
operations of PPL Generation's subsidiaries are subject to the Occupational
Safety and Health Act of 1970 and comparable state statutes.
    
    
      
          
             
      
            
              PPL
      EnergyPlus
            
          
      
    
    
    PPL
EnergyPlus markets or brokers the electricity produced by PPL Generation
subsidiaries, along with purchased power, natural gas and oil, in competitive
wholesale and deregulated retail markets in order to take advantage of
opportunities in the competitive energy marketplace.
    
    PPL
EnergyPlus buys and sells energy at competitive prices.  PPL
EnergyPlus purchases electric capacity and energy at the wholesale level, and
also sells electric capacity and energy at the wholesale level under FERC
market-based tariffs.  PPL EnergyPlus enters into these agreements to
market available energy and capacity from PPL Generation's assets and to profit
from market price fluctuations.  PPL EnergyPlus actively manages its
portfolios to maximize the value of PPL's generating assets and to limit
exposure to price fluctuations.  PPL EnergyPlus also purchases and
sells energy forward and futures contracts as well as other commodity-based
financial instruments in accordance with PPL's risk management policies,
objectives and strategies.
    
    PPL
EnergyPlus has executed contracts to provide electricity to PPL Electric
sufficient for it to meet its PLR obligation through 2009, at the predetermined
capped rates PPL Electric is entitled to charge its customers during this
period.  This arrangement with PPL Electric accounted for 36% of PPL
Energy Supply's operating revenues in 2007.  See Note 16 to the
Financial Statements for more information concerning these
contracts.
    
    PPL
EnergyPlus currently is licensed to provide retail electric supply to customers
in Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Montana, New Jersey and
Pennsylvania.  Beginning in 2008, PPL EnergyPlus also will be licensed
to provide retail electric supply in Massachusetts.  In 2007, PPL
EnergyPlus provided energy to industrial and commercial customers in
Montana.  PPL EnergyPlus also is licensed to provide retail natural
gas in Pennsylvania, Maryland and New Jersey.
    
    PPL
Synfuel Investments, LLC, a subsidiary of PPL EnergyPlus, indirectly owns,
through its subsidiaries, two production facilities that until December 31,
2007, manufactured synthetic fuel from coal or coal byproducts.  PPL
has received federal tax credits for these qualified manufactured solid
synthetic fuel products.  PPL is in the process of retiring these
facilities.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional
information.
    
    In 2007,
PPL sold PPL Telcom, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of PPL EnergyPlus, which
offered fiber optic capacity to telecommunication companies and enterprise
customers.  See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional
information.
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              Pennsylvania Delivery
      Segment -
            
          
          
             
      
             
      
          
          
             
      
            
              Includes
      the regulated electric and gas delivery operations of PPL Electric and PPL
      Gas Utilities.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
             
      
            
              PPL
      Electric
            
          
      
    
    
    PPL
Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million customers in a
10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties of eastern and central
Pennsylvania.  The largest cities in this territory are Allentown,
Bethlehem, Harrisburg, Hazleton, Lancaster, Scranton, Wilkes-Barre and
Williamsport.
    
    In
addition to delivering electricity in its service territory in Pennsylvania, PPL
Electric also provides electricity supply to retail customers in that territory
as a PLR.  As part of the PUC Final Order, PPL Electric agreed to
supply this electricity at predetermined capped rates through
2009.  PPL Electric has executed two contracts to purchase electricity
from PPL EnergyPlus sufficient for PPL Electric to meet its PLR obligation
through 2009, at the predetermined capped rates.  PPL Electric's PLR
obligation after 2009 will be determined by the PUC pursuant to PLR regulations
and a policy statement regarding interpretation and implementation of those
regulations.  Both the regulations and the policy statement became
effective in September 2007.  Refer to "Power Supply" for additional
information, as well as Notes 15 and 16 to the Financial
Statements.
    
    During
2007, about 95% of PPL Electric's operating revenues were derived from regulated
electricity delivery and supply as a PLR.  About 5% of 2007 operating
revenues were from wholesale sales, primarily the sale to PPL EnergyPlus of
power purchased from NUGs.  During 2007, about 43% of electricity
delivery and PLR revenues were from residential customers, 37% from commercial
customers, 19% from industrial customers and 1% from other customer
classes.
    
    PPL
Electric's transmission facilities are operated as part of PJM, which operates
the electric transmission network and electric energy market in the mid-Atlantic
and Midwest regions of the U.S.  Bulk electricity is transmitted to
wholesale users throughout a geographic area including all or part of Delaware,
Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of
Columbia.  As of January 1, 2006, PPL Electric became a member of the
RFC.  The purpose of the RFC is to preserve and enhance electric
service reliability and security for the interconnected electric systems within
its territory and to be a regional entity under the framework of the
NERC.  The RFC's key functions are the development of regional
standards for reliable planning and operation of the bulk electric system and
non-discriminatory compliance monitoring and enforcement of both NERC and
regional standards.
    
    PJM
serves as a FERC-approved RTO in order to accommodate greater competition and
broader participation in the region.  An RTO, like an ISO, is a
designation provided by the FERC to a FERC-approved independent entity that
operates the transmission system and typically administers a competitive power
market.  PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity
and ancillary services.  A primary purpose of the RTO/ISO is to
separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market
participants that buy or sell electricity in the same
markets.  Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets,
but the RTO/ISO directs the control and operation of the transmission
facilities.  PPL Electric is entitled to fully recover from retail
customers the charges that it pays to PJM for transmission-related
services.  PJM imposes these charges pursuant to its FERC-approved
Open Access Transmission Tariff.
    
    PPL
Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of
its activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal
Power Act.
    
    PPL
Electric also is subject to the jurisdiction of certain federal, regional, state
and local regulatory agencies with respect to land use and other environmental
matters.  Certain operations of PPL Electric are subject to the
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 and comparable state
statutes.
    
    In
November 2004, Pennsylvania enacted the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards
legislation, which requires electric distribution companies, such as PPL
Electric, and electric generation suppliers serving retail load to ultimately
provide 18% of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania from
alternative sources within 15 years (by 2020).  Under this new state
legislation, alternative sources include hydro, wind, solar, waste coal,
landfill methane and fuel cells.  An electric distribution company
will pay an alternative compliance payment of $45 for each MWh that it is short
of its required alternative energy supply percentage.  Since PPL
Electric's PLR generation rates are capped through 2009 as described above and
the legislation allows for a cost recovery exemption period, PPL Electric will
not be subject to the requirements of this legislation until 2010.  In
that year, PPL Electric will have to supply about 9% of the total amount of
electricity it delivers to its PLR customers from alternative energy
sources.  At this time, PPL Electric cannot predict the impact of this
legislation on its future results of operations because the impact will depend
on a number of factors that will not be known until 2010, including customer
load requirements, PLR contract terms and available alternative energy sources
in the market.
     
    
      In
February 2007, the Governor of Pennsylvania announced an Energy Independence
Strategy (Strategy).  The Strategy included initiatives aimed at
encouraging the development of energy conservation, energy management and
alternative energy resources and proposed the creation of an $850 million Energy
Independence Fund (Fund) to support the Strategy objectives through rebates,
grants and loans to qualifying programs.  The Fund would be
capitalized with revenue bonds and financed through a non-bypassable charge on
retail electric bills.  The Strategy also included three
initiatives to address PLR issues, such as a proposal to phase-in over three
years any initial generation rate increase approved by the PUC and a requirement
that PLR providers obtain a "least cost portfolio" of supply by purchasing power
in the spot market and through contracts of varying
lengths.  Additionally, providers would be required to procure energy
conservation resources before acquiring additional power to meet load
growth.  In addition, PLR providers could enter into long-term
contracts with large energy users and alternative energy
developers.  A special legislative session on energy issues began in
September 2007 and is continuing in 2008.  The announcement of this
Strategy and the special legislative session are the first steps in an expected
long legislative process involving all of the affected
stakeholders.  In 2007 and 2008, numerous bills have been introduced
on issues incorporated in or related to those addressed by the Strategy,
including demand-side management measures.  It is uncertain at this
time whether the details of implementing the Strategy, including the issues of
deferral of costs and recovery of interest for the customer rate phase-in
program and the timing of PUC approval for PLR supply portfolios, will be
included in legislation or delegated to the PUC.  At this time, PPL
cannot predict the final outcome of this legislative and regulatory process or
its ultimate impact.  See PPL's "Results of Operations - Segment
Results - Pennsylvania Delivery Segment - 2008 Outlook" in Item 7, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," for
additional information regarding PPL Electric's efforts to provide default
electricity supply for periods after 2009.
       
    
    
      
          
             
      
            
              PPL Gas
      Utilities
            
          
      
    
     
    PPL Gas
Utilities was formed in 1946, and PPL acquired it in 1998.  PPL Gas
Utilities operates a natural gas distribution and propane business in portions
of various counties in Pennsylvania, as well as in a small area of Maryland and
Delaware, providing natural gas and propane services to approximately 110,000
customers.  PPL Gas Utilities provides natural gas services in
Pennsylvania subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the PUC.  PPL
Gas Utilities also provides intrastate and interstate natural gas storage
service from storage fields in Pennsylvania.  The intrastate storage
service is regulated by the PUC and the interstate storage service is regulated
by the FERC.  However, under a 1992 FERC Order, rates for interstate
storage services are the rates set by the PUC for intrastate
service.  The propane delivery service is not subject to the
regulatory jurisdiction of the PUC or the FERC.
    
    In July
2007, PPL completed a review of strategic options for PPL Gas Utilities and
announced its intention to sell these businesses.  PPL expects the
sale to be completed in the second half of 2008, following execution of a sales
agreement and receipt of necessary regulatory approvals.  See Note 10
to the Financial Statements for additional information.
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              International Delivery
      Segment -
            
          
          
             
      
             
      
          
          
             
      
            
              Includes
      WPD, a regulated electricity distribution company in the
    U.K.
            
          
      
    
    
    WPD,
through indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, operates two electric distribution
companies that together serve approximately 2.6 million end-users in the
U.K.  WPD (South West) serves 1.5 million customers from Bristol to
Bath in a 5,560 square mile area of southwest England.  WPD (South
Wales) serves an area of Wales opposite the Bristol Channel from WPD (South
West)'s territory.  Its 1.1 million customers occupy 4,550 square
miles of Wales.
    
    PPL
Global had controlling interests in electric transmission and distribution
companies serving customers in Chile, El Salvador and Bolivia until their
respective sales in 2007.  In March 2007, PPL completed a review of
strategic options for its Latin American businesses and announced its intention
to sell them.  In May 2007, PPL completed the sale of its El
Salvadoran business, DelSur, for $180 million in cash.  In July 2007,
PPL sold its Bolivian businesses, Elfec and Integra, to a group organized by
local management and employees of the companies.  In November 2007,
PPL completed the sale of its entire interest in its Chilean business, Emel, for
$660 million in cash.  These Latin American businesses had served
approximately 1.1 million customers.  See Note 10 to the Financial
Statements for additional information on these sales.
    
    Seasonality
    
    Demand
for and market prices of electricity are affected by weather.  As a
result, PPL's overall operating results in the future may fluctuate
substantially on a seasonal basis, especially when more severe weather
conditions such as heat waves or winter storms make such fluctuations more
pronounced.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on
the nature and location of the facilities PPL owns and the terms of the
contracts to purchase or sell electricity.
    
    FINANCIAL
CONDITION
    
    See
PPL's, PPL Energy Supply's and PPL Electric's "Item 7. Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for this
information.
    
    CAPITAL
EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS
    
    See
"Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" in PPL's, PPL Energy
Supply's and PPL Electric's "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information concerning
estimated capital expenditure requirements for the years
2008-2012.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional
information concerning expected capital expenditures for environmental
matters.
    
    COMPETITION
    
    The
unregulated businesses and markets in which PPL and its subsidiaries participate
are highly competitive.  Over the last 15 years, there has been
increased competition in U.S. energy markets because of federal and state
deregulation initiatives.  For instance, in 1992, the Energy Act
amended the Federal Power Act to provide open access to electric transmission
systems for wholesale transactions.  In 1996, the Customer Choice Act
was enacted in Pennsylvania to restructure the state's electric utility industry
to create a competitive market for electricity generation.  Certain
other states in which PPL's subsidiaries operate have also adopted "customer
choice" plans to allow customers to choose their electricity
supplier.  PPL and its subsidiaries believe that competition in
deregulated energy markets will continue to be intense.  See "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" for more information concerning the risks PPL faces with respect
to competition in the deregulated energy markets.
    
    Pursuant
to PPL Electric's authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the
PUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its service
area.  Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its
distribution business.  Although WPD operates in non-exclusive
concession areas in the U.K., it currently faces little or no competition with
respect to residential customers.  See "Franchises and Licenses" for
more information.
    
    POWER
SUPPLY
    
    PPL
Generation's system capacity (winter rating) at December 31, 2007 was
11,418 MW.  The capacity of generating units is based upon a number of
factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units,
and may be revised periodically to reflect changed circumstances.  See
"Item 2. Properties" for a description of PPL Generation's plants at
December 31, 2007.
    
    During
2007, PPL Generation's plants generated the following amounts of
electricity.
    
    
      
          
            
              State
            
            
              Millions of
      kWh
            
          
          
             
      
             
      
          
          
            
              Pennsylvania
            
            
              44,032
            
          
          
            
              Montana
            
            
              8,441
            
          
          
            
              Illinois
            
            
              332
            
          
          
            
              Maine
            
            
              326
            
          
          
            
              Connecticut
            
            
              278
            
          
          
            
              New
      York
            
            
              232
            
          
          
            
              Total
            
            
              53,641
            
          
      
    
    
    This
generation represented a 2% increase above the output for 2006.  Of
this generation, 56% of the energy was generated by coal-fired stations, 31%
from nuclear operations at the Susquehanna station, 8% from hydroelectric
stations and 5% from oil/gas-fired stations.
    
    PPL
estimates that, on average, approximately 91% of its expected annual generation
output for the period 2008 through 2009 will be used to meet:
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              PPL
      EnergyPlus' obligation under two contracts to provide electricity for PPL
      Electric to satisfy its PLR obligation under the Customer Choice Act
      through 2009;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              PPL
      EnergyPlus' obligation under contracts to provide electricity to
      NorthWestern; and
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              contractual
      sales to other counterparties for terms of various
  lengths.
            
          
      
    
    
    PPL has
started to and will continue to enter into new power sales contracts over the
next few years to obtain firm commitments for a portion of the output of its
generating facilities, in advance of the expiration of the PLR
contracts.  PPL has already entered into commitments of varying
quantities and terms for the years 2010 and beyond.  Based on
developments in the wholesale markets over the last several years, PPL expects
that new baseload output contracts are likely to continue to be of a shorter
duration than the PLR contracts which, at inception, had terms of approximately
nine years.
    
    These
contractual arrangements are consistent with, and are integral to, PPL's supply
business strategy to capture profits while managing exposure to adverse
movements in energy and fuel prices and counterparty credit
risk.  This strategy includes matching PPL's anticipated energy supply
(including generation as well as purchase commitments) with load, or customer
demand, under contracts of varying lengths with creditworthy
counterparties.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for more
information regarding PPL's wholesale energy commitments and Note 16 for more
information regarding the PLR contracts.
    
    A
subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply funds, develops, constructs, owns and operates
plants that produce renewable energy.  PPL EnergyPlus markets the
energy produced by these plants and renewable energy credits to commercial,
industrial and institutional customers.
    
    Another
subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply has existing projects throughout Pennsylvania,
New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, with capacity of approximately 23
MW.  During 2007, these projects generated 44 million
kWh.  PPL EnergyPlus purchases the output from two wind farms in
Pennsylvania with a combined capacity of 50 MW.  A subsidiary of PPL
Energy Supply plans to invest at least $100 million in new renewable projects
through 2011.  In addition, PPL Generation is planning to expand by
156 MW the renewable energy provided by hydroelectric facilities.  The
cost of this expansion is expected to be $544 million.
    
    FUEL
SUPPLY
    
    Coal and Synthetic
Fuel
    
    Pennsylvania
    
    Through
December 31, 2007, PPL Coal Supply, LLC (PPL Coal Supply) provided coal to Iris
Energy LLC (Iris Energy) for the production of synthetic fuel.  In
2007, synthetic fuel from Iris Energy provided 66% of the fuel requirements for
three Pennsylvania power plants operated by PPL Generation.  The
contract to provide coal to Iris Energy and the contract for Iris Energy to
supply synthetic fuel to PPL Generation, along with the IRS synthetic fuel tax
credit program, terminated on December 31, 2007.  As part of that
termination, PPL purchased Iris Energy's membership interest in PPL Coal Supply
for $7 million.  PPL Generation's coal supply costs are expected to
increase by approximately $20 million in 2008 as a result of the synthetic fuel
supply contract ending.
    
    Effective
December 31, 2007, PPL Coal Supply, which provided the balance of the
Pennsylvania plants' coal requirements, was merged into PPL
Generation.  PPL Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus,
actively manages PPL's coal requirements by purchasing coal principally from
mines located in central and northern Appalachia.
    
    During
2007, PPL Coal Supply purchased about 92% of the coal delivered to PPL
Generation's wholly-owned Pennsylvania stations under short-term and long-term
contracts and obtained 8% through spot market purchases.  These
contracts provided PPL Generation about 7.0 million tons of
coal.  Contracts currently in place are expected to provide
approximately 7.3 million tons in 2008.  At December 31, 2007, the
wholly-owned Pennsylvania plants had sufficient supply for about 31 days of
operations.  The amount of coal in inventory varies from time to time
depending on market conditions and plant operations.
    
    In 2006,
PPL Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, entered into a
long-term coal purchase agreement with CONSOL Energy Inc.  The
contract will provide more than one-third of PPL Generation's projected annual
coal needs for the Pennsylvania power plants from 2010 through
2018.  PPL Generation has other contracts that, in total, will provide
additional coal supply for PPL's projected annual needs from 2008 through
2012.
    
    Also at
December 31, 2007, a PPL Generation subsidiary owned a 12.34% interest in the
Keystone station and a 16.25% interest in the Conemaugh station.  The
owners of the Keystone station had a long-term contract with a synthetic fuel
supplier, which terminated at the end of 2007, and provided 4.4 million tons in
2007.  The Keystone station contracts with Keystone Fuels, LLC for the
balance of its requirements.  The owners of the Conemaugh station also
had a long-term contract with a synthetic fuel supplier, which terminated at the
end of 2007 and provided 2.6 million tons in 2007.  The balance of the
Conemaugh station requirements is purchased under contract from Conemaugh Fuels,
LLC.  PPL's share of Keystone and Conemaugh coal supply costs are
expected to increase by $4 million in 2008 due to termination of the synthetic
fuel contracts.
    
    Initial
deliveries of limestone in preparation for startup of the scrubbers being
installed at the Montour power plant began in October 2007.  Contracts
are in place for all the limestone requirements for the four planned scrubbers
at PPL Generation's wholly-owned Pennsylvania stations for 2008 through
2010.  When all four scrubbers are fully operational, it is projected
that annual limestone requirements will be approximately 700,000
tons.
    
    Montana
    
    PPL
Montana has a 50% leasehold interest in Colstrip Units 1 and 2, and a 30%
leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 3.  PPL Montana, along with the
other owners, is party to contracts to purchase 100% of its coal requirements
with defined quality characteristics and specifications.  The current
coal supply contract for Units 1 and 2 is in effect through December 31,
2009.  In 2007, PPL Montana entered into a new long-term purchase and
supply agreement with the current supplier for Units 1 and 2 that will begin
January 1, 2010.  The new contract will provide these units with 100%
of the coal requirements through December 31, 2014, and at least 85% of such
requirements from January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2019.  The coal
supply contract for Unit 3 is in effect through December 31, 2019, and will
provide 100% of the coal requirements of this unit.
    
    Coal
supply contracts are in place to purchase low-sulfur coal with defined quality
characteristics and specifications for PPL Montana's Corette
station.  The contracts supplied 100% of the plant coal requirements
in 2007.  Similar contracts are currently in place to supply 100% of
the expected coal requirements through 2010.
    
    Oil and Natural
Gas
    
    PPL
Generation's Martins Creek Units 3 and 4 burn both oil and natural
gas.  PPL EnergyPlus is responsible for procuring the oil and natural
gas supply for all PPL Generation operations.  During 2007, 100% of
the physical oil and gas requirements for the Martins Creek units were purchased
on the spot market.  As of December 31, 2007, PPL EnergyPlus had no
long-term agreements for these oil requirements.
    
    As of
December 31, 2007, there were no long-term delivery or supply agreements to
purchase natural gas for the University Park facility.
    
    PPL
EnergyPlus has a long-term contract for approximately 40% of the expected
pipeline transportation requirements of the Wallingford facility, but has no
long-term supply agreement to purchase natural gas.
    
    PPL
EnergyPlus has a short-term and long-term gas transportation contract in place
for approximately 30% of the maximum daily requirements of the Lower Mt. Bethel
facility, but has no long-term supply agreement to purchase natural
gas.
    
    Nuclear
    
    The
nuclear fuel cycle consists of several material and service
components:  the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium
concentrates; the conversion of these concentrates into uranium hexafluoride, a
gas component; the enrichment of the hexafluoride gas; the fabrication of fuel
assemblies for insertion and use in the reactor core; and the temporary storage
and final disposal of spent nuclear fuel.
    
    PPL
Susquehanna has a portfolio of supply contracts, with varying expiration dates,
for nuclear fuel materials and services.  These contracts are expected
to provide sufficient fuel to permit Unit 1 to operate into the first quarter of
2012 and Unit 2 to operate into the first quarter of 2013.  PPL
Susquehanna anticipates entering into additional contracts to ensure continued
operation of the nuclear units.
    
    Federal
law requires the federal government to provide for the permanent disposal of
commercial spent nuclear fuel.  Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act
(NWPA), the DOE initiated an analysis of a site in Nevada for a permanent
nuclear waste repository.  There is no definitive date by which this
repository will be operational.  As a result, it was necessary to
expand Susquehanna's on-site spent fuel storage capacity.  To support
this expansion, PPL Susquehanna contracted for the design and construction of a
spent fuel storage facility employing dry cask fuel storage
technology.  The facility is modular, so that additional storage
capacity can be added as needed.  The facility began receiving spent
nuclear fuel in 1999.  PPL Susquehanna estimates that there is
sufficient storage capacity in the spent nuclear fuel pools and the on-site
spent fuel storage facility at Susquehanna to accommodate spent fuel discharged
through approximately 2017, under current operating
conditions.  If necessary, the on-site spent fuel storage facility can
be expanded, assuming appropriate regulatory approvals are obtained, such that,
together, the spent fuel pools and the expanded dry fuel storage facility will
accommodate all of the spent fuel expected to be discharged through the current
licensed life of the plant.
    
    In 2002,
President Bush approved the Congressional override of a veto by the State of
Nevada, designating Yucca Mountain, Nevada, as the site for development of a
permanent repository for high-level radioactive waste.  The next step
is for the DOE to submit a license application to the NRC to build and then
operate the Yucca Mountain repository.  The DOE currently plans to
submit a license application by the end of 2008.
    
    In 1996,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the
NWPA imposed on the DOE an unconditional obligation to begin accepting spent
nuclear fuel on or before January 31, 1998.  In 1997, the Court ruled
that the contracts between the utilities and the DOE provide a potentially
adequate remedy if the DOE failed to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by
January 31, 1998.  The DOE did not, in fact, begin to accept spent
nuclear fuel on that date.  The DOE continues to contest claims that
its breach of contract resulted in recoverable damages.  In January
2004, PPL Susquehanna filed suit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for
unspecified damages suffered as a result of the DOE's breach of its contract to
accept and dispose of spent nuclear fuel.  PPL cannot predict the
outcome of these proceedings.
    
    PROVIDER
OF LAST RESORT SUPPLY
    
    
      The
Customer Choice Act requires electricity delivery companies, like PPL Electric,
to act as a PLR of electricity and provides that electricity supply costs will
be recovered by such companies pursuant to regulations to be established by the
PUC.  In May 2007, the PUC approved PPL Electric's plan to procure
default electricity supply in 2010 -- after its current supply agreements with
PPL EnergyPlus expire -- for retail customers who do not choose an alternative
competitive supplier.  Pursuant to this plan, PPL Electric has
completed two of six competitive supply solicitations and has contracted for
one-third of the 2010 electricity supply it expects to need for residential,
small commercial and small industrial customers.  See PPL's "Results
of Operations - Segment Results - Pennsylvania Delivery Segment - 2008 Outlook"
in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations," for additional information regarding PPL Electric's
efforts to provide default electricity supply for periods after
2009.
    ENVIRONMENTAL
MATTERS
    
    Certain
PPL subsidiaries, including PPL Electric and PPL Generation subsidiaries, are
subject to certain present and developing federal, regional, state and local
laws and regulations with respect to air and water quality, land use and other
environmental matters.  See PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's "Financial
Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information
concerning environmental expenditures during 2007 and estimated expenditures
during 2008-2012.  Certain environmental laws, regulations and
developments that may have a substantial impact on PPL are discussed
below.  See "Environmental Matters" in Note 15 to the Financial
Statements for information regarding these laws and regulations and the status
of PPL's and its subsidiaries compliance and remediation activities, as well as
legal and regulatory proceedings involving PPL and its
subsidiaries.
    
    Air
    
    The Clean
Air Act includes, among other things, provisions that:  (a) restrict
the construction of, and revise the performance standards for, new and
substantially modified coal-fired and oil-fired generating stations; and (b)
authorize the EPA to impose substantial per day noncompliance penalties for each
facility found to be in violation of the requirements of an applicable state
implementation plan.  State agencies administer the EPA's air quality
regulations through state implementation plans and have concurrent authority to
impose penalties for noncompliance.
    
    In 2005,
the EPA finalized its Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) requiring substantial
reductions for sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions in 28 midwestern and
eastern states, including Pennsylvania.  Pursuant to a separate rule
finalized in 2005, the EPA also required mercury reductions
nationwide.  However, a federal appeals court has negated the EPA
mercury rule.  The ruling is not expected to affect PPL's current
plans to comply with state regulations in Pennsylvania and
Montana.  PPL continues to review the federal court opinion to
determine whether it has any effect on state regulations in the long
term.
    
    Global Climate
Change
    
    There is
a growing concern nationally and internationally about global climate change and
the contribution of greenhouse gas emissions including, most significantly,
carbon dioxide.  This concern has led to increased federal legislative
proposals, actions at state or local levels, as well as litigation relating to
greenhouse gas emissions, including an April 2007 U.S. Supreme Court decision
holding that the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from
new motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act.  The EPA has also agreed,
following this decision, to a remand of New Source Performance Standards (NSPS)
applicable to stationary sources to reconsider its approach to including
greenhouse gases under such rules.  If the EPA concludes greenhouse
gases from motor vehicles pose an endangerment to public health or welfare, this
could lead to regulation of stationary source carbon dioxide
emissions.  The EPA might also proceed directly under the NSPS to
regulate greenhouse gases from stationary sources.  Also, increased
pressure for carbon dioxide emissions reduction is being initiated by investor
and environmental organizations and the international community.  In
addition, a nuisance claim brought by a number of states against other large
electric generating companies was dismissed by a federal district court in New
York but remains pending on appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.
    
    PPL
believes that the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may have a material
impact on its capital expenditures and operations, but the costs are not now
determinable.  PPL also
cannot predict the impact that any pending or future federal or state
legislation regarding more stringent environmental standards could have on PPL
or its subsidiaries.
    
    Water
    
    To
implement the requirements of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972,
as amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the Water Quality Act of 1987, the
EPA has adopted regulations on effluent standards for steam electric
stations.  The states administer the EPA's effluent standards through
state laws and regulations relating to, among other things, effluent discharges
and water quality.  The standards adopted by the EPA pursuant to the
Clean Water Act may have a significant impact on existing facilities of certain
PPL subsidiaries, depending on the states' interpretation and future amendments
to regulations.  The EPA plans to finalize the 2008 Effluent
Guidelines Plan by August 2008, in which the EPA will make a decision about
whether to revise the steam electric effluent guidelines.  The EPA is
presently conducting a sampling study of industry discharges to obtain
information needed to make that decision.
    
    As a
result of a U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit decision in January
2007, the EPA has withdrawn and is revising its rules for reducing the adverse
impact to aquatic organisms during operation of cooling water intakes at
existing facilities.  While the EPA revises the rule, some states are
moving forward to independently implement this section of the Clean Water
Act.  Changes the EPA will make to the rule in accordance with this
decision and the actions of states will likely result in requirements to install
technologies to reduce the impact to aquatic life.  The cost of these
technologies is not now determinable but could be significant.
    
    Pursuant
to the Surface Mining and Reclamation Act of 1977, the OSM has adopted effluent
guidelines which are applicable to PPL subsidiaries as a result of their past
coal mining and coal processing activities.  The EPA and the OSM
limitations, guidelines and standards also are enforced through the issuance of
NPDES permits.  In accordance with the provisions of the Clean Water
Act and the Reclamation Act of 1977, the EPA and the OSM have authorized the
states to implement the NPDES program.  Compliance with applicable
water quality standards is assured by state imposition of NPDES permit
conditions and requirements to address acid mine drainage.
    
    Solid and Hazardous
Waste
    
    The
provisions of Superfund authorize the EPA to require past and present owners of
contaminated sites and generators of any hazardous substance found at a site to
clean-up the site or pay the EPA or the state for the costs of
clean-up.  The generators and past owners can be liable even if the
generator contributed only a minute portion of the hazardous substances at the
site.  Present owners can be liable even if they contributed no
hazardous substances to the site.
    
    State
laws such as the Pennsylvania and Montana Superfund statutes and the
Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act also give state agencies broad authority
to identify contaminated sites or sites with waste that has been improperly
disposed of, and to order owners or responsible parties to clean-up the
sites.  If responsible parties cannot or will not perform the
clean-up, the agency can hire contractors to clean-up the sites and then require
reimbursement from the responsible parties after the clean-up is
completed.  Another Pennsylvania statute, the Land Recycling and
Environmental Remediation Standards, encourages voluntary clean-ups by allowing
responsible parties to choose from a menu of clean-up standards and providing
liability protection commensurate with the clean-up standard
chosen.
    
    Furthermore,
the EPA and several states, including Montana, are considering establishing
regulations that could impact the disposal and management of coal combustion
products including ash and scrubber wastes and other by-products.  PPL
cannot predict at this time what impact, if any, such regulations would have on
its operating facilities.
    
    Certain
federal and state statutes, including federal and state Superfund statutes, also
impose liability on the responsible parties for the lost value of damaged
natural resources.
    
    Low-Level Radioactive
Waste
    
    
      Under
federal law, each state is responsible for the disposal of low-level radioactive
waste generated in that state.  States may join in regional compacts
to jointly fulfill their responsibilities.  The states of
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware and West Virginia are members of the
Appalachian States Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact.  Efforts to
develop a regional disposal facility in Pennsylvania were suspended by the
Pennsylvania DEP in 1998.  The Commonwealth retains the legal
authority and may be required to resume the siting process should it be
necessary.  Low-level radioactive waste resulting from the operation
of the Susquehanna facility is currently being sent to independently operated
facilities in Barnwell, South Carolina, and Clive, Utah for
disposal.  In the event these or other emergent disposal options
become unavailable or are no longer cost-effective, low-level radioactive waste
will be stored on-site at Susquehanna, in a facility licensed for that purpose
by the NRC.  The Barnwell facility has announced that it will stop
receiving waste from most states, including Pennsylvania, in June
2008.  Beginning at that time, PPL will send most of its low-level
radioactive waste to the Clive, Utah facility and the remainder will be stored
at the Susquehanna storage facility.  PPL Susquehanna cannot predict
the future availability of independently operated low-level waste disposal
facilities or the cost of disposal at such facilities.  PPL believes
that its licensed storage facility located at Susquehanna is sufficient for the
foreseeable future to replace the portion of storage capability at the Barnwell
facility that will not be shifted to Clive, Utah.
    Electric and Magnetic
Fields
    
    Concerns
have been expressed by some members of the public regarding potential health
effects of power frequency EMFs, which are emitted by all devices carrying
electricity, including electric transmission and distribution lines and
substation equipment.  Government officials in the U.S. and the U.K.
have reviewed this issue.  The U.S. National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences concluded in 2002 that, for most health outcomes,
there is no evidence that EMFs cause adverse effects.  The agency
further noted that there is some epidemiological evidence of an association with
childhood leukemia, but that the evidence is difficult to interpret without
supporting laboratory evidence.  The U.K. National Radiological
Protection Board (part of the U.K. Health Protection Agency) concluded in 2004
that, while the research on EMFs does not provide a basis to find that EMFs
cause any illness, there is a basis to consider precautionary measures beyond
existing exposure guidelines.  In April 2007, the Stakeholder Group on
Extremely Low Frequency EMF, set up by the U.K. Government, issued its interim
assessment, which describes a number of options for reducing public exposure to
EMFs.  This assessment is being considered by the U.K.
Government. PPL and its subsidiaries believe the current efforts to
determine whether EMFs cause adverse health effects should continue and are
taking steps to reduce EMFs, where practical, in the design of new transmission
and distribution facilities.  PPL and its subsidiaries are unable to
predict what effect, if any, the EMF issue might have on their operations and
facilities either in the U.S. or the U.K., and the associated cost, or what, if
any, liabilities they might incur related to the EMF issue.
    
    General
    
    PPL and
its subsidiaries are unable to predict the ultimate effect of evolving
environmental laws and regulations upon their existing and proposed facilities
and operations.  In complying with statutes, regulations and actions
by regulatory bodies involving environmental matters, including the areas of
water and air quality, hazardous and solid waste handling and disposal and toxic
substances, PPL's subsidiaries may be required to modify, replace or cease
operating certain of their facilities.  PPL's subsidiaries may also
incur significant capital expenditures and operating expenses in amounts which
are not now determinable, but could be significant.
    
    FRANCHISES
AND LICENSES
    
    PPL
Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout its
service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in
corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies to which it has succeeded and
as a result of certification by the PUC.  PPL Electric is granted the
right to enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain
conditions.  In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance,
resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local
political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth.
    
    See
"Background - Supply Segment" for a discussion of PPL EnergyPlus' licenses in
various states.  PPL EnergyPlus also has an export license from the
DOE to sell capacity and/or energy to electric utilities in Canada.
    
    PPL
Susquehanna operates Units 1 and 2 pursuant to NRC operating
licenses.  In September 2006, PPL Susquehanna applied to the NRC for
20-year license renewals for each of the Susquehanna units to extend their
expiration dates, from 2022 to 2042 for Unit 1 and from 2024 to 2044 for Unit
2.  PPL cannot predict whether or when NRC approval will be
obtained.
    
    In
December 2007, PPL announced that PPL Susquehanna will ask the NRC to approve a
COLA for a new nuclear generating unit to be built adjacent to the Susquehanna
plant.  See Note 9 to Financial Statements for additional
information.
    
    PPL
Holtwood operates the Holtwood hydroelectric generating station pursuant to a
license renewed by the FERC in 1980 and expiring in 2014.  PPL
Holtwood operates the Wallenpaupack hydroelectric generating station pursuant to
a license renewed by the FERC in 2005 and expiring in 2044.  PPL
Holtwood also owns one-third of the capital stock of Safe Harbor Water Power
Corporation (Safe Harbor), which holds a project license that extends the
operation of its hydroelectric generating station until 2030.  The
total capacity of the Safe Harbor generating station is 420 MW, and PPL Holtwood
is entitled by contract to one-third of the total capacity.
    
    In
December 2007, PPL asked the FERC for permission to expand its Holtwood plant by
125 MW.  See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional
information.
    
    The 11
hydroelectric facilities and one storage reservoir purchased from Montana Power
in 1999 are licensed by the FERC.  These licenses expire periodically,
and the generating facilities must be relicensed at such times.  The
current FERC license for the Mystic facility expires in 2009; the Thompson Falls
and Kerr licenses expire in 2025 and 2035, respectively; and the licenses for
the nine Missouri-Madison facilities expire in 2040.  In December
2007, the FERC issued a new license for the Mystic facility for a 40-year term,
effective January 1, 2010.
    
    In
connection with the relicensing of these generation facilities, the FERC may,
under applicable law, relicense the original licensee or license a new licensee,
or the U.S. government may take over the facility.  If the original
licensee is not relicensed, it is compensated for its net investment in the
facility, not to exceed the fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable
damages to other property affected by the lack of relicensing.
    
    WPD is
located in the U.K. and is authorized by the U.K. government to provide electric
distribution services within its concession areas and service territories,
subject to certain conditions and obligations.  For instance, WPD is
subject to governmental regulation of the prices it can charge and the quality
of service it must provide, and WPD can be fined or even have its licenses
revoked if it does not meet the mandated standard of service.
    
    WPD
operates under distribution licenses granted, and price controls set, by
Ofgem.  The price control formula that governs WPD's allowed revenue
is normally determined every five years.  The most recent review was
completed in late-2004, and new prices became effective April 1,
2005.
    
    EMPLOYEE
RELATIONS
    
    As of
December 31, 2007, PPL and its subsidiaries had the following full-time
employees.
    
    
      
          
            
              PPL
      Energy Supply
            
             
      
             
      
          
          
             
      
            
              PPL
      Generation
            
            
              2,674
            
             
      
          
          
             
      
            
              PPL
      EnergyPlus
            
            
              2,197
            
            
               (a)
            
          
          
             
      
            
              PPL
      Global
            
             
      
             
      
          
          
             
      
             
      
            
              Domestic
            
            
              8
            
             
      
          
          
             
      
             
      
            
              International
      (WPD)
            
            
              2,334
            
             
      
          
          
             
      
            
              Total
      PPL Energy Supply
            
            
              7,213
            
             
      
          
          
            
              PPL
      Electric
            
            
              2,238
            
             
      
          
          
            
              PPL
      Gas Utilities
            
            
              373
            
             
      
          
          
            
              PPL
      Services & Other
            
            
              1,325
            
             
      
          
          
            
              Total
      PPL
            
            
              11,149
            
             
      
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              (a)
            
             
      
            
              Includes
      union employees of mechanical contracting subsidiaries, whose number tends
      to fluctuate due to the nature of this
business.
            
          
      
    
    
    Approximately
61%, or 5,339, of PPL's domestic workforce are members of labor unions, with
four IBEW locals representing 3,643 employees.  The other unions
primarily represent employees of the mechanical contractors and gas utility
employees in Pennsylvania.  The bargaining agreement with the largest
union was negotiated in May 2006 and expires in May 2010.  Nine
four-year contracts with smaller gas utility locals in Pennsylvania were
negotiated in 2007.  In June 2004, the IBEW representing 245 employees
at the Montana Colstrip power plant approved a four-year labor agreement
expiring in June 2008.  In January 2008, a four-year contract expiring
in April 2012 was negotiated with an IBEW local in Montana that represents 86
employees at the hydroelectric plants and at the Corette plant.
    
    Approximately
84%, or 1,953, of PPL's international workforce are members of labor
unions.  WPD recognizes five unions, the largest of which represents
37% of union members.  WPD's Electricity Business Agreement covers
1,897 union employees; it may be amended by agreement between WPD and the unions
and is terminable with 12 months notice by either side.
    
    AVAILABLE
INFORMATION
    
    PPL's
Internet Web site is www.pplweb.com.  On the Investor Center page of
that Web site, PPL provides access to all SEC filings of PPL registrants free of
charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the
SEC.  Additionally, PPL registrants' filings are available at the
SEC's Web site (www.sec.gov) and at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
    
    ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
    
    PPL, PPL
Energy Supply and PPL Electric face various risks associated with our
businesses.  While we have tried to identify below the risks we
currently consider material, these risks are not the only risks that we
face.  Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently
deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.  Our
businesses, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be
materially adversely affected by any of these risks.  In addition,
this report also contains forward-looking and other statements that involve a
number of risks and uncertainties.  See "Forward-Looking Information,"
"Item 1. Business," "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 15 to the Financial Statements for
more information concerning the risks described below and for other risks,
uncertainties and factors that could impact our businesses and financial
results.
    
    As used
in this Item 1A., the terms "we," "our" and "us" generally refer to PPL and its
consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole, or to PPL Energy Supply and its
consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Supply and International
Delivery segment discussions, or PPL Electric and PPL Gas Utilities and their
consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Pennsylvania Delivery
segment discussion.
    
    Risks
Related to Supply Segment
    
    (PPL and PPL Energy
Supply)
    
    Adverse
changes in commodity prices and related costs may decrease our future energy
margins, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows.
    
    Our
energy margins, or the amount by which our revenues from the sale of power
exceed our costs of supplying power, are impacted by changes in the market
prices for electricity, as well as fluctuations in the prices for fuel, fuel
transportation, emission allowances, renewable energy credits, electricity
transmission and related congestion charges and other costs.  Unlike
most other commodities, there is limited ability to store electric power and it
must be consumed at the time of production.  As a result, the
wholesale market prices for electricity may fluctuate substantially over
relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable.  Among the
factors that can influence such prices are:
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              demand
      for electricity and supplies of electricity available from current or new
      generation resources;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              variable
      production costs, primarily fuel (and the associated fuel transportation
      costs) and emission allowance expense, for the generation resources used
      to meet the demand for electricity;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              transmission
      capacity and service into, or out of, markets served;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              changes
      in the regulatory framework for wholesale power
markets;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              liquidity
      in the wholesale electricity market, as well as general credit worthiness
      of key participants in the market; and
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              weather
      conditions impacting demand for electricity or the facilities necessary to
      deliver electricity.
            
          
      
    
    
    See
Exhibit 99(b) for more information concerning the market fluctuations in
wholesale energy, fuel and emission allowance prices over the past five
years.
    
    Whether
we decide to, or are able to, continue to enter into or renew long-term power
sales and fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements in order to mitigate
market price and supply risk may affect our earnings.
    
    As a
result of the PLR contracts and certain other agreements, a substantial portion
of our anticipated generation production and capacity value is currently
committed through 2009 under power sales agreements of various terms that
include fixed prices for our electric power.  In connection with such
agreements, we have entered into longer-term fuel purchase and fuel
transportation agreements that include fixed prices for a significant portion of
our forecasted needs.  Whether we decide to, or are able to, continue
to enter into such agreements or renew existing agreements and the market
conditions at that time will affect our financial performance.  For
instance, in the absence of long-term power sales agreements, we would sell the
energy, capacity and other products from our facilities into the competitive
wholesale power markets under contracts of shorter duration at then-current
market prices.  Although the current
forward prices for electricity significantly exceed the prices available under
some of our current power sales agreements, this situation may not
continue.  In addition, if we do not secure or maintain favorable fuel
purchase and fuel transportation agreements for our power generation facilities,
our fuel costs (and the associated fuel transportation costs) could exceed the
revenues that we derive from our energy sales.  Given the volatility
and potential for material differences between actual electricity prices and
fuel and other costs, if we do not secure or maintain long-term electricity
sales and fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements, our margins will be
subject to increased volatility and, depending on future electricity and fuel
costs (and the associated fuel transportation costs), our financial results may
be materially adversely affected.
    
    Marketing
energy for the period after expiration of the PLR contracts poses other risks to
the Supply segment.
    
    
      The
existing full requirements PLR contracts between PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Electric
expire at the end of 2009.  In connection with PPL Electric’s
PUC-approved procurement plan for default electricity supply in 2010 for retail
customers who do not choose an alternative competitive supplier, PPL EnergyPlus
was one of the successful bidders in the first competitive solicitation process
and in July 2007 entered into an agreement with PPL Electric to supply up to 671
MW of total peak load in 2010, at an average price of $91.42 per
MWh.  At this time, we cannot predict the extent to which PPL
EnergyPlus will sell additional power to PPL Electric after 2009.  In
anticipation of the expiration of the PLR contracts at the end of 2009, our
energy marketing and trading operation continues to enter into other new supply
contracts for the post-2009 period, including bilateral and load-following
contracts with new counterparties at market prices.  The electricity
supply obligations under these new contracts will be met by generation we own
and electricity and other energy-related products purchased from other
parties.  In connection with these activities and as part of the
continued expansion of our energy marketing and trading operation, we are
hedging the future energy production capability of our generation facilities and
the related fuel costs; buying and selling energy, capacity, fuel, transmission
and other products in the wholesale energy markets; and entering into various
forms of financial and physical contracts to capture additional energy margins
as well as to hedge various exposures in our generation portfolio and generally
manage risk.  All of the above hedging and trading activity may cause
volatility in future cash flows and results of operations.
    
    
    Disruptions
in our fuel supplies could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to
operate our generation facilities.
    
    We
purchase fuel from a number of suppliers.  Disruption in the delivery
of fuel, including disruptions as a result of weather, transportation
difficulties, global demand and supply dynamics, labor relations, environmental
regulations or the financial viability of our fuel suppliers, could adversely
affect our ability to operate our facilities, which could result in lower sales
and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of
operations.
    
    Our
generation facilities may not operate as planned, which may increase our
expenses or decrease our revenues and, thus, have an adverse effect on our
financial performance.
    
    Our
ability to manage operational risk with respect to our generation plants is
critical to our financial performance.  Operation of our power plants
at expected capacity levels involves many risks, including the breakdown or
failure of equipment or processes, accidents, labor disputes and fuel
interruption.  In addition, weather and natural disasters can disrupt
our generation plants.  Weather conditions also have a direct impact
on the river flows required to operate our hydroelectric plants at expected
capacity levels.  Depending on the timing and duration of both planned
and unplanned complete or partial outages at our power plants (in particular, if
such outages are during peak periods or during periods of, or caused by, severe
weather), our revenues from energy sales could be significantly decreased and
our expenses significantly increased, and we could be required to purchase power
at then-current market prices to satisfy our energy sales commitments or, in the
alternative, pay penalties and damages for our failure to satisfy
them.  Many of our generating units are reaching mid-life, and we are
faced with the potential for more frequent unplanned outages and the possibility
of planned outages of longer duration to accommodate significant investments in
major component replacements at these facilities.
    
    Changes
in technology may impair the value of our power plants.
    
    A basic
premise of our business is that generating electricity at central power plants
achieves economies of scale and produces electricity at a relatively low
price.  There are alternate technologies for producing electricity,
most notably fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic (solar)
cells.  Research and development activities are ongoing to seek
improvements in the alternate technologies.  It is possible that
advances will reduce the cost of alternate methods of electric production to a
level that is equal to or below that of most central station electric
production.  Also, as new technologies are developed and become
available, the quantity and the pattern of electricity usage (the "demand") by
customers could change, thus allowing them to reduce their purchases and the
corresponding revenues that the generators receive.  If this were to
happen, the value of our generation facilities may be significantly
impaired.
    
    We
rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to
deliver our wholesale electricity and natural gas.  If transmission is
disrupted, or not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our
ability to sell and deliver power may be hindered.
    
    We depend
on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and
other energy companies to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to the
wholesale market, as well as the natural gas we purchase for use in our electric
generation facilities.  If transmission is disrupted (as a result of
weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by
ISOs, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell
and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or
we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms.
    
    The FERC
has issued regulations that require wholesale electric transmission services to
be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis.  Although
these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market
transactions for electricity, there is the potential that fair and equal access
to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission
capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we
desire.  We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result
of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific
markets or whether ISOs in applicable markets will operate the transmission
networks, and provide related services, efficiently.
    
    The
PLR contracts do not provide for a specific level of supply and demand
significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy
margins.
    
    PPL
Electric is obligated to provide electricity supply to its PLR customers at
predetermined capped rates through 2009 and has entered into PUC-approved, full
requirements energy supply agreements with PPL EnergyPlus at the rates PPL
Electric is entitled to charge its PLR customers in order to fulfill its PLR
obligation.  If PPL Electric's customers obtain electricity from
alternate suppliers, which they are entitled to do at any time, PPL EnergyPlus'
sales of electricity under the PLR contracts may decrease.
    
    Alternatively,
demand that we satisfy pursuant to the PLR contracts could increase as a result
of severe weather conditions, economic development or other reasons over which
we have no control.  We satisfy our electricity supply obligations
through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation
assets, contractual relationships and market purchases.  At December 31, 2007,
the PLR requirements required about 80% of the normal operating capacity of our
existing Pennsylvania generation assets.  A significant
increase in demand would adversely affect our energy margins because we are
required under the terms of the PLR contracts to provide the energy supply to
fulfill this increased demand at the capped rates, which we expect to remain
significantly below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the
additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at
which we could otherwise sell the additional supply.  Accordingly, any
significant increase in demand could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or financial position.
    
    We
face intense competition in our energy supply business, which may adversely
affect our ability to operate profitably.
    
    Unlike
our regulated delivery businesses, our energy supply business is not assured of
any rate of return on our capital investments through predetermined rates, and
our revenues and results of operations are dependent on our ability to operate
in a competitive environment.  An important focus of our supply
business over the next several years will be the enhancement and expansion of
our wholesale marketing and trading of electricity and related products and
services, but we may not be successful because of the intense competition that
we face in the deregulated electricity markets.  Competition is
impacted by electricity and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction by
others of generating assets, technological advances in power generation, the
actions of regulatory authorities and other factors.  These
competitive factors may negatively impact our ability to sell electricity and
related products and services and the prices which we may charge for such
products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations
and our ability to grow our business.
    
    Following
the expiration of our existing power sales agreements, we currently expect to
sell our available energy and capacity into the competitive wholesale markets
through contracts of various durations.  Competition in the wholesale
power markets will occur principally on the basis of the price of products and,
to a lesser extent, on the basis of reliability and availability.  We
expect the commencement of commercial operation of new electric facilities in
the regional markets where we own or control generation capacity will continue
to increase the competitiveness of the wholesale electricity market in those
regions, which could have a material adverse effect on the prices we receive for
electricity.
    
    We also
face competition in the wholesale markets for electricity capacity and ancillary
services.  We primarily compete with other electricity merchants based
on our ability to aggregate supplies at competitive prices from different
sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and
transmission from electric utilities and ISOs.  We also compete
against other energy marketers on the basis of relative financial condition and
access to credit sources, and many of our competitors have greater financial
resources than we have.
    
    Competitors
in the wholesale power markets in which PPL Generation subsidiaries and PPL
EnergyPlus operate include regulated utilities, industrial companies,
non-utility generators and unregulated subsidiaries of regulated
utilities.  In the past, PUHCA significantly restricted mergers and
acquisitions and other investments in the electric utility
sector.  Entirely new competitors, including financial institutions,
may enter the energy markets as a result of the repeal of PUHCA.  The
repeal of PUHCA also may lead to consolidation in our industry, resulting in
competitors with significantly greater financial resources than we
have.
    
    If
the present trend towards competitive markets is reversed, discontinued or
delayed, our business prospects and financial condition could be materially
adversely affected.
    
    Some
deregulated electricity markets have experienced supply problems and price
volatility.  In some of these markets, state legislators, government
agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to delay market
restructuring, change the use of market-based pricing, re-regulate areas of
these markets that have previously been deregulated or permit electricity
delivery companies to construct or acquire generating facilities.  In
certain states, elements and implications of the electricity market
restructurings are being investigated by legislators and regulators or are the
subject of ongoing litigation.  In 2001, the FERC instituted a series
of price controls designed to mitigate (or cap) prices in the entire western
U.S. to address the extreme volatility in the California electricity
markets.  These price controls have had the effect of significantly
lowering spot and forward electricity prices in the western
market.  In addition, the ISOs that oversee the transmission systems
in certain wholesale electricity markets have from time to time been authorized
to impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in the
power markets.  These types of price limitations and other mechanisms
may reduce the profits that our wholesale power marketing and trading business
would have realized based on competitive market conditions absent such
limitations and mechanisms.  Although we generally expect electricity
markets to continue to be competitive, other proposals to re-regulate our
industry may be made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric
power restructuring process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or
reversed in the states in which we currently, or may in the future,
operate.
     
    
      At this
time, there are various ongoing regulatory and legislative activities in
Pennsylvania regarding PLR supply after 2009.  We cannot predict the
final outcome of these regulatory and legislative activities or their ultimate
impact on PPL and PPL Energy Supply, along with PPL Electric.  For
additional information on PLR issues after 2009, see "Conditions affecting PPL Electric’s
PLR supply after 2009 are currently uncertain" under the "Risks Related
to Pennsylvania Delivery Segment" discussion.
    
    
    We
are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with selling and
marketing products in the wholesale electricity markets.
    
    We
purchase and sell electricity in wholesale markets under market-based tariffs
authorized by the FERC throughout the United States and also enter into
short-term agreements to market available electricity and capacity from our
generation assets with the expectation of profiting from market price
fluctuations.  If we are unable to deliver firm capacity and
electricity under these agreements, we could be required to pay
damages.  These damages would generally be based on the difference
between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or electricity and the
contract price of the undelivered capacity or electricity.  Depending
on price volatility in the wholesale electricity markets, such damages could be
significant.  Extreme weather conditions, unplanned generation
facility outages, transmissions disruptions, and other factors could affect our
ability to meet our obligations, or cause significant increases in the market
price of replacement capacity and electricity.
    
    In
addition, our power agreements typically include provisions requiring us to post
collateral for the benefit of the counterparties if the market price of energy
varies from the contract prices by certain thresholds.  At
December 31, 2007, we posted $469 million of collateral, in the form of
letters of credit, under these contracts.  Although we currently
believe that we have sufficient liquidity facilities to fulfill our potential
collateral obligations under these contracts, we increased our available
liquidity facilities to $3.9 billion in 2007, in order to satisfy these
collateral obligations and to maintain our credit ratings.  The
increase was needed, in significant part, due to the potential collateral
requirements under these contracts, and to support contracts that we expect to
enter as we seek to expand our wholesale marketing and trading business,
including power contracts for the sale of electricity that will become available
following the expiration of our PLR contracts with PPL Electric.
    
    We also
face credit risk that parties with whom we contract will default in their
performance, in which case we may have to sell our electricity into a
lower-priced market or make purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at
the time of contract.  Whenever feasible, we attempt to mitigate these
risks through various means, including through agreements that require our
counterparties to post collateral for our benefit if the market price of energy
varies from the contract prices beyond certain thresholds.  However,
there can be no assurance that we will avoid counterparty
nonperformance.  Counterparty nonperformance could adversely impact
our ability to fully meet our obligations to other parties, which could in turn
subject us to claims for damages.
    
    We
do not always hedge against risks associated with electricity and fuel price
volatility.
    
    We
attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual electricity
sales arrangements by either reserving generation capacity to deliver
electricity or purchasing the necessary financial or physical products and
services through the competitive markets to satisfy our net firm sales
contracts.  We also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and
electricity purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to weather
conditions, fuel requirements and other electricity-related
commodities.  However, based on economic and other considerations, we
may not hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price
volatility.  To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price
volatility, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely
affected.
    
    Our
risk management policy and programs relating to electricity and fuel prices,
interest rates, foreign currency and counterparties, may not work as planned,
and we may suffer economic losses despite such programs.
    
    We
actively manage the market risk inherent in our energy-related, debt, foreign
currency and counterparty credit positions.  We have implemented
procedures to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policy and
programs, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of
risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analyses and daily portfolio reporting
of various risk measurement metrics.  Nonetheless, our risk management
programs may not work as planned.  For instance, actual electricity
and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the
historical trends and assumptions upon which we based our risk management
positions.  Similarly, interest rates or foreign currency exchange
rates could change in significant ways that our risk management procedures were
not set up to address.  As a result, we cannot always predict the
impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead
to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to
hedge.  If our risk management positions are ineffective in this way,
we could be subject to mark-to-market accounting with respect to certain of our
risk management contracts, which could lead to significant volatility in our
earnings and our financial position.
    
    In
addition, our trading, marketing and risk management activities are exposed to
the credit risk that counterparties that owe us money, electricity or fuel will
breach their obligations.  We have established a risk management
policy and programs, including credit risk programs, to evaluate counterparty
credit risk.  However, if counterparties to these arrangements fail to
perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current
market prices.  In that event, our financial results are likely to be
adversely affected.
    
    Despite
federal and state deregulation initiatives, our supply business is still subject
to extensive regulation, which may increase our costs, reduce our revenues, or
prevent or delay operation of our facilities.
    
    Our U.S.
generation subsidiaries sell electricity into the wholesale
market.  Generally, our generation subsidiaries and our marketing
subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the FERC.  The FERC has
authorized us to sell generation from our facilities and power from our
marketing subsidiaries at market-based prices.  The FERC retains the
authority to modify or withdraw our market-based rate authority and to impose
"cost of service" rates if it determines that the market is not workably
competitive, that we possess market power or that we are not charging just and
reasonable rates.  Any reduction by the FERC in the rates we may
receive or any unfavorable regulation of our business by state regulators could
materially adversely affect our results of operations.  See "FERC
Market-Based Rate Authority" in Note 15 to the Financial Statements for
information regarding recent court decisions that could impact the FERC's
market-based rate authority program.
    
    In
addition, the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of electricity
generation facilities require numerous permits, approvals, licenses and
certificates from federal, state and local governmental agencies.  We
may not be able to obtain or maintain all required regulatory
approvals.  If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory
approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approval or fail to
comply with any applicable law or regulation, the operation of our assets and
our sales of electricity could be prevented or delayed or become subject to
additional costs.
    
    We
are actively pursuing growth of generation capacity, which involves a number of
uncertainties and may not achieve the desired financial results.
    
    We are
actively pursuing expansion of our generation capacity over the next several
years through power uprates at certain of our existing power plants, the
potential construction of new power plants and the potential acquisition of
existing plants.  The acquisition, development and construction of
additional generation capacity through any of these means involve numerous
risks.  Any planned power uprates could result in cost overruns,
reduced plant efficiency and higher operating and other costs.  With
respect to the construction of new plants or the acquisition of existing plants,
we may be required to expend significant sums for preliminary engineering,
permitting, resource exploration, legal and other expenses in preparation for
competitive bids that we may not win or before it can be established whether a
project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being
financed.  The success of both a new project and a newly-acquired
plant would likely be contingent upon, among other things, the negotiation of
satisfactory fuel supply and power sales contracts, as well as acceptable
financing conditions.  Our success in developing a new plant or
expanding existing generation capacity would likely be contingent upon, among
other things, negotiation of satisfactory engineering and construction
contracts, receipt of required and appropriate governmental approvals and
satisfactory completion of construction.  If we were unable to
complete the construction or expansion of a facility, we would generally not be
able to recover our investment in the project.  Furthermore, we may be
unable to run any new or acquired plants as efficiently as projected, which
could result in higher than projected operating and other costs and reduced
earnings.
    
    For
example, as discussed in more detail in Note 9 to the Financial Statements, we
have announced our intention to file a COLA with the NRC by the end of 2008 to
construct a new nuclear unit.  We are making substantial expenditures
on this COLA process, but we have not yet committed to construction of this new
nuclear unit and such construction is subject to numerous
uncertainties.  In addition to the general uncertainties discussed
above for our generation expansion plans, these uncertainties include NRC and
other governmental approvals, potential public opposition, the continuing NRC
review of the Evolutionary Power Reactor technology involved, the cost and
availability of acceptable financing including under the DOE's loan guarantee
and other governmental programs, acceptable arrangements with project partners
and vendors, schedule delays, legislative and regulatory changes, competitive
market structure and the prospect for cost recovery, among other
factors.
    
    Our
costs to comply with existing and new environmental laws are expected to
continue to be significant, and we plan to incur significant capital
expenditures on pollution control measures that, if delayed, would adversely
affect our profitability and liquidity.
    
    Our
business is subject to extensive federal, state and local statutes, rules and
regulations relating to environmental protection.  To comply with
existing and future environmental requirements and as a result of voluntary
pollution control measures we may take, we expect to spend substantial amounts
in the future on environmental control and compliance.
    
    As a
result of existing and recently-enacted federal environmental laws and
regulations primarily governing air emissions from coal-burning plants, PPL's
current installation plan for the scrubbers and other pollution control
equipment (primarily aimed at sulfur dioxide, particulate, nitrogen oxides and
mercury emissions reduction) through 2012 reflects a total estimated cost of
approximately $1.6 billion, of which PPL has already spent $0.9
billion.  While installation of this pollution control equipment
remains on schedule, a delay in such installation could require us to purchase
additional pollution control emission allowances at market prices or decrease
the expected value of excess emission allowances that we could sell at market
prices as a result of the scheduled installation of this
equipment.  Such a delay also could require us to burn higher cost,
lower sulfur coal at these facilities.  Many states and environmental
groups have challenged certain of the federal laws and regulations relating to
air emissions as not being sufficiently strict.  As a result, it is
possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose
more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect, which
could require us to incur significantly greater capital expenditures for
pollution control equipment.
    
    We may
not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals
necessary for our planned capital projects or which are otherwise necessary to
our business.  If there is a delay in obtaining any required
environmental regulatory approval or if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply
with any such approval, operations at our affected facilities could be halted or
subjected to additional costs.  Furthermore, at some of our older
facilities it may be uneconomical for us to install the necessary equipment,
which may cause us to shut down those generation units.
    
    There
also is growing concern nationally and internationally about carbon dioxide and
other greenhouse gas emissions (including concern about global
warming).  Various legislative proposals are being considered in
Congress, and several states already have passed legislation capping carbon
dioxide emissions.
    
    For more
information regarding environmental matters, including the existing and proposed
federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations to which we are
subject, see "Environmental Matters - Domestic" in Note 15 to the Financial
Statements.
    
    We
are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including the risk that our
Susquehanna nuclear plant could become subject to revised security or safety
requirements that would increase our capital and operating expenditures, and
uncertainties associated with decommissioning our plant at the end of its
licensed life.
    
    Nuclear
generation accounted for about 31% of our 2007 generation output.  The
risks of nuclear generation generally include:
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting
      from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and
      disposal of radioactive materials;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              limitations
      on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover
      losses and liabilities that might arise in connection with nuclear
      operations; and
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              uncertainties
      with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning
      nuclear plants at the end of their licensed
  lives.
            
          
      
    
    
    The NRC
has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing requirements, as well
as security-related and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear
generation facilities.  In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the
authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its
assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is
achieved.  In addition, revised security or safety requirements
promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital or operating
expenditures at our Susquehanna nuclear plant.  In addition, although
we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our Susquehanna
plant, if an incident did occur, any resulting operational loss, damages and
injuries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash
flows or financial condition.
    
    Risks
Related to International Delivery Segment
    
    (PPL and PPL Energy
Supply)
    
    Our
U.K. delivery business is also subject to risks with respect to rate regulation
and operational performance.
    
    
      Our U.K.
delivery business is rate-regulated.  In addition, its ability to
manage operational risk is critical to its financial
performance.  Accordingly, this business is subject to the same
general risks as those described below under "Risks Related to Pennsylvania
Delivery Segment."
    Our
U.K. delivery business exposes us to risks related to laws of other countries,
taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates,
political and regulatory conditions and policies of foreign
governments.  These risks may reduce our results of operations from
our delivery business.
    
    The
acquisition, financing, development and operation of projects in the U.K. entail
significant financial risks, including:
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              changes
      in foreign laws or regulations relating to foreign operations, including
      tax laws and regulations;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              changes
      in United States laws related to foreign operations, including tax laws
      and regulations;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              changes
      in government policies, personnel or approval
  requirements;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              changes
      in general economic conditions affecting the U.K.;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              regulatory
      reviews of tariffs for distribution companies;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              severe
      weather and natural disaster impacts on the electric sector and our
      assets;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              changes
      in labor relations in foreign operations;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              limitations
      on foreign investment or ownership of projects and returns or
      distributions to foreign investors;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              limitations
      on the ability of foreign companies to borrow money from foreign lenders
      and lack of local capital or loans;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              fluctuations
      in currency exchange rates and in converting foreign revenues to U.S.
      dollars, which can increase our expenses and/or impair our ability to meet
      such expenses, and difficulty moving funds out of the country in which the
      funds were earned;
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              limitations
      on the ability to import or export property and equipment;
    and
            
          
          
            
              ·
            
            
              compliance
      with U.S. foreign corrupt practices
laws.
            
          
      
    
    
    Risks
Related to Pennsylvania Delivery Segment
    
    (PPL and PPL
Electric)
    
    Regulators
may not approve the rates we request.
    
    Our
Pennsylvania delivery business is rate-regulated.  While such
regulation is generally premised on the recovery of prudently incurred costs,
including energy supply costs for customers, and a reasonable rate of return on
invested capital, the rates that we may charge our delivery customers are
subject to authorization of the applicable regulatory
authorities.  There is no guarantee that the rates authorized by
regulators will match our actual costs or provide a particular return on
invested capital at any given time.
    
    Our
transmission and distribution facilities may not operate as planned, which may
increase our expenses or decrease our revenues and, thus, have an adverse effect
on our financial performance.
    
    Our
ability to manage operational risk with respect to our transmission and
distribution systems is critical to the financial performance of our delivery
business.  Our delivery business also faces several risks, including
the breakdown or failure of or damage to equipment or processes (especially due
to severe weather or natural disasters), accidents and labor disputes and other
factors.  Operation of our delivery systems below our expectations may
result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance
costs.
    
    We
are subject to higher transmission costs and other risks as a result of PJM's
regional transmission expansion plan (RTEP) process.
    
    PJM and
the FERC have the authority to require upgrades or expansion of the regional
transmission grid, which can result in substantial expenditures for transmission
owners.  As discussed in Note 9 to the Financial Statements, we will
be making substantial expenditures to construct a major new transmission line
that PJM has determined is necessary for the reliability of the regional
transmission grid.  Although we have applied to the FERC for incentive
rate treatment of such facilities, we cannot predict the ultimate cost and
regulatory treatment.  We also cannot predict the in-service schedule
for these facilities or whether delays may occur due to public opposition and
other factors.  Delays could result in significant cost increases for
these facilities and decreased reliability of the regional transmission
grid.  As a result, we cannot predict the ultimate financial or
operational impact of this project or other RTEP projects on PPL
Electric.
    
    We
could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory
reliability standards.
    
    Under the
Energy Policy Act, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system
are now subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC and
enforced by the FERC.  Compliance with new reliability standards may
subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures, and
violations of these standards could result in substantial
penalties.  As discussed in Note 15 to the Financial Statements, as a
result of its self-reporting to the RFC of a potential violation of certain
reliability standards, PPL Electric could be subject to substantial penalties
for such violation.
    
    PPL
Electric generally bears the risk, through 2009, that it will not be able to
obtain adequate energy supply at the predetermined capped rates it may charge to
its PLR customers.
    
    In order
to mitigate the risk that we will not be able to obtain adequate energy supply
through 2009, at the predetermined capped rates we may charge to our PLR
customers, we have entered into PUC-approved, full requirements energy supply
agreements with PPL EnergyPlus at these capped rates.  Under one of
the PLR contracts, we are required to make performance assurance deposits with
PPL EnergyPlus when the market price of electricity is less than the contract
price by more than our contract collateral threshold.  Conversely, PPL
EnergyPlus is required to make performance assurance deposits with us when the
market price of electricity is greater than the contract price by more than its
contract collateral threshold.  Over the past few years, market prices
for electricity have exceeded the contract price, and we estimated that, at
December 31, 2007, the market price of electricity exceeded the contract price
in total by approximately $2.5 billion.  Accordingly, at
December 31, 2007, PPL EnergyPlus was required to provide us with
performance assurance of $300 million, the maximum amount of collateral required
under the contract.  If PPL EnergyPlus is unable to satisfy its energy
supply obligations to us under the PLR contracts, we would be required to obtain
energy supply in the wholesale market at then-current market rates to meet our
PLR obligation.  While the Customer Choice Act provides generally for
PLR costs to be borne by customers, it is not clear whether we would be able to
pass on to our customers any costs of this replacement energy supply that exceed
the predetermined capped rates.
    
    Conditions
affecting PPL Electric's PLR supply after 2009 are currently
uncertain.
    
    Uncertainty
driven by potential changes in the regulatory treatment of PPL Electric's PLR
obligation after 2009 when its full requirements contracts with PPL EnergyPlus
expire presents a risk for the electricity delivery business.  The
Customer Choice Act requires electricity delivery companies, like PPL Electric,
to act as a PLR of electricity and provides that electricity supply costs will
be recovered by such companies pursuant to regulations to be established by the
PUC.  There are a number of ongoing regulatory and legislative
activities that may affect PPL Electric's recovery of supply costs after
2009.  In May 2007, the PUC approved PPL Electric's plan to procure
default electricity supply in 2007-2009 for retail customers who do not choose
an alternative competitive supplier in 2010.  Pursuant to this plan,
PPL Electric has contracted for one-third of the 2010 electricity supply it
expects to need for residential, small commercial and small industrial
customers.  In November 2007, PPL Electric filed a plan with the PUC,
which is still pending, under which its residential and small commercial
customers, beginning in mid-2008, could begin to pay in advance to smooth the
impact of price increases when generation rate caps expire in
2010.  In September 2007, the PUC regulations regarding the obligation
of Pennsylvania electric utilities to provide default electricity supply in 2011
and beyond became effective.  Later this year, PPL Electric plans to
file for PUC approval of its post-2010 supply procurement plan under these
regulations.  In addition to this regulatory activity, the Governor of
Pennsylvania has proposed an Energy Independence Strategy which, among other
things, contains initiatives to address PLR issues including a requirement that
PLRs will obtain a "least-cost portfolio" of electric supply.  The
Pennsylvania legislature has convened and continues a special session to address
the proposals in the Governor's Strategy and other energy issues.  In
addition, certain Pennsylvania legislators have introduced legislation to extend
generation rate caps or otherwise limit cost recovery through rates for
Pennsylvania utilities beyond the end of their transition periods, which in PPL
Electric's case is December 31, 2009.  PPL and PPL Electric have
expressed strong concern regarding the severe potential consequences of such
legislation on customer service, system reliability, adequate future generation
supply and PPL Electric's financial viability.  If such legislation or
similar legislation is enacted, PPL Electric could be faced with severe
financial impacts including operating losses and significant cash flow
shortfalls.  In addition, continuing uncertainty regarding PPL
Electric's ability to recover its market supply and other costs of operating its
business after 2009 could adversely impact its credit quality, financing costs
and availability of credit facilities necessary to operate its
business.
    
    Whether
we decide to, or are able to, continue to enter into power purchase contracts in
order to mitigate market price and delivery risk, and our ability to recover
costs associated with such contracts, may affect our earnings.
    
    In order
to mitigate the risk that we will not be able to obtain adequate energy supply
after 2009, when the full requirements energy supply agreements with PPL
EnergyPlus expire, we have entered into power purchase agreements that include
fixed prices.  Whether we decide to, or are able to, continue to enter
into such agreements and the market conditions at that time will affect our
financial performance.  For instance, in the absence of power purchase
agreements, we would purchase the energy, capacity and other products in the
competitive wholesale power markets at then-current market
prices.  The current forward prices for electricity exceed the prices
available under some of our current power sales agreements, and our financial
performance will be affected by our ability to enter into new supply contracts,
the duration and pricing of such contracts relative to prevailing market
conditions, and the regulatory treatment for such contracts and the associated
recovery of our supply costs.  Depending on these factors, our
financial results may be materially adversely affected.
    
    Other
Risks Related to All Segments
    
    (PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL
Electric)
    
    Our
operating results could fluctuate on a seasonal basis, especially as a result of
severe weather conditions.
    
    Our
businesses are seasonal.  For example, in some markets demand for, and
market prices of, electricity peak during the hot summer months, while in other
markets such peaks occur in the cold winter months.  As a result, our
overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a
seasonal basis, especially when severe weather conditions such as heat waves,
extreme cold weather or storms make such fluctuations more
pronounced.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on
the nature and location of the facilities we acquire or develop and the terms of
our contracts to sell electricity.
    
    We
cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings and investigations currently
being conducted with respect to our current and past business
activities.  An adverse determination could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.
    
    We are
involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation and subject to ongoing
state and federal investigations arising out of our business operations, the
most significant of which are summarized in "Legal Matters," "Regulatory Issues"
and in "Environmental Matters - Domestic" in Note 15 to the Financial
Statements.  We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters,
nor can we reasonably estimate the costs or liability that could potentially
result from a negative outcome in each case.
    
    We
may need significant additional financing to pursue growth
opportunities.
    
    We
continually review potential acquisitions and development projects and may enter
into significant acquisition agreements or development commitments in the
future.  An acquisition agreement or development commitment may
require access to substantial capital from outside sources on acceptable
terms.  We also may need external financing to fund capital
expenditures, including capital expenditures necessary to comply with
environmental regulations or other regulatory requirements.  Our
ability to arrange financing and our cost of capital are dependent on numerous
factors, including general economic conditions, credit availability and our
financial performance.  The inability to obtain sufficient financing
on terms that are acceptable to us could adversely affect our ability to pursue
acquisition and development opportunities and fund capital
expenditures.
    
    A
downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access
capital and increase the cost of maintaining our credit facilities and any new
debt.
    
    Our
current credit ratings by Moody's, Fitch and S&P are listed in "Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital
Resources."  While we do not expect these ratings to limit our ability
to fund our short-term liquidity needs and/or access any new long-term debt, any
ratings downgrades could increase our short-term borrowing costs and negatively
affect our ability to fund our short-term liquidity needs and access new
long-term debt.
    
    Significant
increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care
and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and
liquidity.
    
    We
continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and
maintenance expenses.  However, we expect to continue to face
increased cost pressures in our operations, including with respect to materials
and labor costs as a result of general inflation, increased nationwide plant
construction and other factors.  In addition, pursuant to our
collective bargaining agreements, we are contractually committed to provide
specified levels of health care and pension benefits to current employees and
retirees covered by the contracts.  We provide a similar level of
benefits to our management employees.  These benefits give rise to
significant expenses.  Due to general inflation with respect to such
costs, the aging demographics of our workforce and other factors, we have
experienced significant health care cost inflation in the last few years, and we
expect our health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue
to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to continue to take
to require employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their
health care benefits.  In addition, we expect to continue to
experience significant costs with respect to the defined benefit pension plans
that we sponsor for our employees and retirees.  The measurement of
our expected future health care and pension obligations, costs and liabilities
is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, most of which relate to factors
beyond our control.  These assumptions include investment returns,
interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit improvements, salary increases
and the demographics of plan participants.  If our assumptions prove
to be inaccurate, our costs could be significantly increased.
    
    There
is a risk that we may be required to record impairment charges in the future for
certain of our investments, which could adversely affect our
earnings.
    
    Under
GAAP, we are required to test our recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual
basis, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that these assets
may be impaired.  While no goodwill impairments were required based on
our annual review in the fourth quarter of 2007, we are unable to predict
whether any impairment charges may be necessary in the future.
    
    We also
review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. 
During
2007, PPL impaired certain transmission rights, certain domestic
telecommunications assets, certain assets of the natural gas distribution and
propane businesses, and the net assets of our Bolivian businesses prior to their
sale in July.  During 2006, PPL recorded a loss on the sale of
our interest in the Griffith plant and fully impaired our synfuel-related
assets.  See Notes 9, 10 and 15 to the Financial
Statements.  In addition, we are in the process of selling our natural
gas distribution and propane businesses, which may result in a loss on
sale.  We are unable to predict whether impairment charges, or other
losses on sales of other assets or businesses, may occur in the
future.
    
    ITEM 1B