. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Operations for more information and risks associated with competition.SPECIALTY SCIENCESOverviewThe Specialty Sciences segment is comprised primarily of assets focused on the treatment of multiple sclerosis, specifically in connection with the drug Tysabri® (natalizumab). We are entitled to royalty payments from Biogen Idec Inc. ("Biogen") based on its Tysabri® sales in all indications and geographies. We received royalties of 12% on worldwide Biogen sales of Tysabri® from December 18, 2013 through April 30, 2014. Beginning on May 1, 2014, we received, and going forward we will receive, royalties of 18% on annual worldwide Biogen sales of Tysabri® up to $2.0 billion and 25% on annual sales above $2.0 billion. During the six months ended December 31, 2015, Specialty Sciences represented approximately 6% of consolidated net sales.Competition    Tysabri® is a complex biological product, with the majority of its patents protected through 2024, and is administered under a strict Risk and Evaluation Mitigation Strategy ("REMS") program. In the event that the patent is invalidated or is infringed upon and a biosimilar is introduced, the financial performance of our Specialty Sciences segment would be materially adversely affected. Tysabri® competes with many companies that are working to develop successful new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis. If any of these competing products have a similar or more attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience, or safety, future sales of Tysabri® could be limited. However, the competition may be limited in its product development as Tysabri® is administered under an FDA-approved REMS programs. See . Risk Factors - Risks Related to Operations for information and risks associated with competition.INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO ALL REPORTABLE SEGMENTS Research and DevelopmentR&D is a key component of our business strategy and, while managed centrally, is performed in various locations in the countries in which we operate. While we conduct a significant amount of our own R&D, we also enter into strategic alliance agreements to obtain the rights to manufacture and/or distribute new products. R&D spending was $88.2 million and $89.8 million for the six months ended December 31, 2015, and December 27, 2014, respectively, and $187.8 million, $152.5 million, and $115.2 million for the fiscal years ended June 27, 2015, June 28, 2014, and June 29, 2013, respectively. In addition, we wrote off in-process research and development from previous acquisitions totaling $6.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 28, 2014 and $9.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 29, 2013 due to changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for various projects. The six months ended December 31, 2015 included incremental R&D expense due to the Omega acquisition. The six months ended December 27, 2014 included a $10.0 million payment made in connection with our entry into a collaboration arrangement. The fiscal year ended June 27, 2015 also included incremental R&D expense due to the Omega acquisition, as well as the payment made in relation to the collaboration arrangement noted above, and an R&D contractual arrangement under which we funded $18.0 million of R&D. The fiscal year ended June 28, 2014 included incremental R&D expense attributable to the Sergeant's Pet Care Products, Inc. ("Sergeant's") and Velcera Inc. ("Velcera") acquisitions that closed during the previous fiscal year, as well as R&D  12Perrigo Company plc - Item 1expense related to the ELND005 Phase 2 clinical program in collaboration with Transition Therapeutics, Inc. ("Transition"), which we acquired from Elan. We ended our collaboration with Transition during the third quarter of the fiscal year ended June 28, 2014 and are no longer responsible for ongoing development activities and costs associated with ELND005. The fiscal year ended June 29, 2013 included incremental R&D expenses attributable to the acquisition of Sergeant's, Velcera, and Rosemont Pharmaceuticals Ltd. See Item 8. Note 2 and Item 8. Note 17 for more information on the acquisitions, collaboration arrangement, and R&D contractual arrangement noted above. We anticipate that R&D expenditures will increase in dollar terms but will remain relatively flat to slightly higher as a percentage of net sales for the foreseeable future as we continue to cultivate our presence in the Rx-to-OTC switch and generic pharmaceutical markets, and develop our internal R&D capabilities. See . Risk Factors - Risks Related to Operations for risks associated with materials sourcing.Manufacturing and DistributionOur primary manufacturing facilities are in the U.S. and Israel. We also have secondary manufacturing facilities in the U.K., Belgium, France, Germany, Austria, Mexico, Australia, and India, along with a joint venture in China. See . Risk Factors - Risks Related to Operations for risks associated with customers.Seasonality Historically we have been impacted by seasonal demand and consumer dynamics in the retail environment in which our customers operate. Sales of OTC pharmaceutical products in the CHC segment are typically subject to seasonal demands for cough/cold/flu products from September through March and allergy products from April through September. Our BCH segment's sales are also impacted by seasonality and tend to peak in April through June due to increased demand for seasonal health and wellness products. In addition, our animal health products are subject to seasonal demand for flea and tick products that typically peaks during the warmer weather months, from March through June. Our Rx, Specialty Sciences, and Other segments' sales are not generally impacted by seasonal conditions. Accordingly, operating results for the six months ended December 31, 2015 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for a full year.EnvironmentalWe are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. We have made, and continue to make, expenditures necessary to comply with applicable environmental laws, but do not believe that the costs for complying with such laws and regulations have been or will be material to our business. We do not have any material remediation liabilities outstanding.While we believe that climate change could present risks to our business, including increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to our facilities, water limitations, and disruptions to our supply chain, we do not believe these risks are material to our business in the near term.    Corporate Social ResponsibilityWe are committed to doing business in an ethical manner. We also have a long history of environmentally sound and efficient operations, safe and healthy working conditions, and active participation in the communities where we are located. As reflected in our Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment Statement available on our website, we remain committed to:•Helping consumers access safe, effective and affordable healthcare products;•Strong corporate governance;•Complying with regulatory and legal requirements;•Demonstrating environmental stewardship;•Continuously improving packaging sustainability;•Protecting human rights of our global employees and challenging our partners to do the same;•Providing a safe and healthy work environment for our employees; •Diversity and gender equality of our Board of Directors, management, and employees; and•Establishing effective community partnerships. 14Perrigo Company plc - Item 1Through these efforts, we strive to minimize our impact on the environment, drive responsible business practices, and ensure the welfare of our employees, their families, and the communities in which we operate now and into the future.GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND PRICING The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, advertising, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by a variety of agencies in the localities in which our products are sold. In addition, we manufacture and market certain of our products in accordance with standards set by various organizations. We believe that our policies, operations, and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which we are subject. See . Risk Factors - Risks Related to Operations for risks related to the above-mentioned programs.Other U.S. Regulations and OrganizationsWe are subject to various other national, state, non-governmental, and local agency rules and regulations. Compliance with the laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our current products and the discovery, development, and introduction of new products requires substantial effort, expense and capital investment. Other regulatory agencies, organizations and legislation that may impact our business include, but are not limited to:  19Perrigo Company plc - Item 1Regulation•Physician Payment Sunshine Act - This act requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payment database and public reporting of the payment data.•Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 ("FCPA") - This act and other similar anti-bribery laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage.•Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") - This agency oversees the advertising and other promotional practices of consumer products marketers. The FTC considers whether a product’s claims are substantiated, truthful and not misleading. The FTC also reviews mergers and acquisitions of companies exceeding specified thresholds and investigates certain business practices relevant to the healthcare industry. •NSF International ("NSF") - The NSF is an independent, not-for-profit, non-governmental organization that provides risk management services for public health and safety. Many of our dietary supplement products are certified under NSF/ANSI Standard 173.•International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") - The ISO Standards specify requirements for a Quality Management System that demonstrates the ability to consistently provide products that meet customer and applicable regulatory standards and includes processes to ensure continuous improvement. Our infant formula manufacturing sites are ISO 9001-2008 Certified for Quality Management Systems. ISO inspections are conducted at least annually.•United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc. ("USP") - The USP is a non-governmental, standard-setting organization. By reference, the FFDCA incorporates the USP quality and testing standards and monographs as the standard that must be met for the listed drugs, unless compliance with those standards is specifically disclaimed on the product’s labeling. USP standards exist for most Rx and OTC pharmaceuticals and many nutritional supplements. The FDA typically requires USP compliance as part of cGMP compliance.•Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ("HIPAA") - We could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA or for aiding and abetting the violation of HIPAA.•Consumer Product Safety Commission ("CPSC") - The CPSC has published regulations requiring child resistant packaging on certain products including pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. The manufacturer of any product that is subject to any CPSC rule, ban, standard or regulation must certify that, based on a reasonable testing program, the product complies with CPSC requirements. •Other State Agencies - We are subject to regulation by numerous other state health departments, insurance departments, boards of pharmacy, state controlled substance agencies, state consumer health and safety regulations, and other comparable state agencies, each of which have license requirements and fees that vary by state.Regulation Outside the U.S. We develop and manufacture products and market third-party manufactured products in regions outside the U.S., including Russia, South Africa, Israel, Mexico, and Australia, as well as countries in Asia, South America, the Middle East, and Eastern and Western Europe, each of which has its own regulatory environment. The majority of our sales outside the U.S. are in the following categories: OTC/Rx pharmaceuticals, medical devices, dietary supplements (including VMS) and cosmetics. 20Perrigo Company plc - Item 1RegulationEuropean Union OTC and Rx Pharmaceuticals The European pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and much of the legislative and regulatory framework is driven by the European Parliament and the European Commission. This has many benefits, including the potential to harmonize standards across the complex European market. However, obtaining regulatory agreement across member states presents complex challenges that can lead to delays in the regulatory process.In the European Union (“EU”), as well as many other locations around the world, the manufacture and sale of medicinal products is regulated in a manner substantially similar to that of the U.S. requirements, which generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing, and importation of any medicinal product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. The registration file relating to any particular product must contain data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and / or references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. Health ministries are authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful or ineffective or if it is manufactured or marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions.Between 1995 and 1998, the over-arching legislation that governs medicinal products was revised in an attempt to simplify and harmonize product registration. This revised legislation introduced the mutual recognition procedure (“MRP”), whereby after approval of a marketing authorization by regulatory authorities in the reference member state (“RMS”), additional marketing authorizations could be submitted to other concerned member states  to obtain a product license. In November 2005, the medicinal product legislation was further revised to introduce the decentralized procedure (“DCP”) whereby marketing authorizations are submitted simultaneously to the RMS and select concerned member states. In 2005, the EMA also opened up the centralized procedure to sponsors of marketing authorizations for generic medicinal products. Unlike the MRP and DCP, the centralized procedure results in a single marketing authorization and product labeling across all member states that will allow a sponsor to file for individual country reimbursement and make the medicine available in all the EU countries listed on the application. Marketing authorizations and subsequent product licenses are granted to applicants only after the relevant health authority issues a positive assessment of quality, safety and efficacy of the product.  In addition to obtaining marketing authorization for each product, all member states require that a manufacturer’s facilities obtain approval from an EU Regulatory Authority. The EU has a code of GMP that each manufacturer must follow and comply with. Regulatory authorities in the EU may conduct inspections of the manufacturing facilities to review procedures, operating systems, and personnel qualifications. We believe that our policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which our operations are subject. Some elements of the European Falsified Medicines Directive (the “Directive”) were enacted into national laws during 2013. The provisions of the Directive are intended to reduce the risk of counterfeit medicines entering the supply chain and also to ensure the quality of API manufactured outside of the EU. The Directive required the serialization of all Rx and some OTC products, similar to the DSCSA in the U.S.In the EU, member states regulate the pricing of prescription medicinal products, and in some cases, the formulation and dosing of products. This regulation is handled by individual member state national health services. These individual regulatory bodies can result in considerable price differences and product availability among member states. The implementation of tendering systems for the pricing of pharmaceuticals in several countries generally impacts drug pricing for generics; generally “tendering” refers to a system that requires bids to be submitted to the government by competing manufacturers to be the exclusive, or one of a few, suppliers of a product in a particular country.Data exclusivity provisions exist in many countries, although the application is not uniform. In general, these exclusivity provisions prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications to the health authorities for a fixed period of time following the first approval of the brand-name product in that country. As these exclusivity provisions operate independently of patent exclusivity, they may prevent the submission of generic drug applications for some products even after the patent protection has expired. 21Perrigo Company plc - Item 1RegulationThe requirements deriving from European pharmacovigilance legislation are constantly expanding due to increasing guidance on good vigilance practices and increased communication on inspectors’ expectations. Pharmacovigilance fee legislation became effective in late 2014 to support health authority assessment of pharmacovigilance safety evaluation reports, study protocols for post authorization safety studies and referrals. Once approved, the advertising of pharmaceuticals in the EU is governed by national regulations and guidelines. Within certain member states this is overseen by a self-certification process whereas in others national governance bodies approve material prior to release.Medical DevicesThe EU has enacted into law numerous directives and adopted many harmonizing standards pertaining to a wide range of industrial products, including medical devices. Medical devices that comply with the requirements of applicable directives are entitled to bear the CE marking of conformity, which indicates that the device conforms to the applicable requirements of the directives and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout Europe.  The method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a Notified Body, an organization accredited by a member state. Assessment by a Notified Body includes an audit of the manufacturer’s quality system and may also include specific testing of the product. This assessment is a prerequisite for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the EU. Dietary Supplements (including VMS)Dietary supplements are subject to several regulations that inform the selection of ingredient levels and how products can be described on packaging and in advertising. These regulations include: Food Supplements Directive 2002/46/EC, Food Information to Consumers Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011, Permitted Vitamins and Minerals Regulation (EC) 1170/2009, Food Additives Regulation (EC) 1333/2008, and Nutritional & Health Claims Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006, and starting in July 2016, the Foods Intended for Particular Nutritional Uses Directive 2009/39/EC & Regulation (EU) 609/2013.EU rules on nutrition and health claims, which were established by Regulation EC 1924/2006, apply to any nutritional or health claim by a manufacturer. The objective of the regulation is to ensure that claims made in food labeling or advertising are clear, accurate and based on scientific evidence. The European Food Safety Authority, an advisory panel to the European Commission, performs all scientific assessments of health claims on food and supplement labels. An EU register of nutrition and health claims exists to document approved, pending, and rejected claims.  CosmeticsCosmetic products in the EU market must comply with Regulation EC No. 1223/2009. This regulation requires manufacturers to prepare a product safety report prior to placing a cosmetic product in the market. In addition, for each cosmetic product placed in the market, a “responsible person” must be designated to oversee compliance with the regulation’s reporting requirements. Commission Regulation EU No. 655/2013 establishes the common criteria and justification for claims to be used in the packaging and advertising of cosmetics products.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2015 we had approximately 13,300 full-time and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 2,700 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The majority of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements are located in Europe, Mexico, and Israel. We consider our employee relations generally satisfactory.Available InformationOur principal executive offices are located at the Treasury Building, Lower Grand Canal Street, Dublin 2, Ireland and our administrative offices are located at 515 Eastern Avenue, Allegan, Michigan 49010. Our telephone number is +353 1 7094000. Our website address is www.perrigo.com, where we make available free of charge our reports on Forms 10-KT, 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, including any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably  22Perrigo Company plc - Item 1practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). These filings are also available to the public at www.sec.gov and www.isa.gov.il.ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSRisks Related to OperationsIf we do not continue to rapidly develop, manufacture, and market innovative products that meet customer demands, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. Our continued growth is due in large part to our ability to rapidly develop, manufacture, and market products that meet customer requirements for quality, safety, efficacy, and cost effectiveness. Continuous introductions of new products and product categories are critical to our business. If we do not continue to develop, manufacture, and market new products, we could lose market share, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. See Item 1. Business - Research and Development for more information.•We maintain a diversified product line to function as a primary supplier for our customers. Capital investments are driven by growth, technological advancements, cost improvement and the need for manufacturing flexibility. Our estimates of future capital expenditures could vary materially due to the uncertainty of these factors. In addition, if we fail to stay current with the latest manufacturing, information and packaging technology, we may be unable to competitively support the launch of new product introductions. •Our product margins may decline over time due to our products' aging life cycles, changes in consumer choice, changes in competition for our existing products, or the introduction of next generation innovative products; therefore, new product introductions are necessary to maintain our current financial condition. If we are unable to continue to create new products, we may lose market share or experience pricing pressure, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. •We must prove that the ANDA regulated drug products in our CHC and Rx segments are bioequivalent to their branded counterparts, which requires bioequivalence studies, and in the case of topical products, even more extensive clinical endpoint trials to demonstrate the efficacy. The development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly, and subject to a high degree of business risk. Products currently under development, if and when fully developed and tested, may not perform as expected, may not pass required bioequivalence studies, or may be the subject of intellectual property challenges. Necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all, and we may not be able to successfully and profitably produce and market such products. This could negatively impact our net sales. •Our ability to attract and retain scientists proficient in emerging delivery forms and/or contracting with a third party in order to generate new products of this type is critical to our long-term plans. If we fail to attract and retain this talent, our long-term sales growth and profit could be adversely impacted. •Even upon the successful development of a product, our customer's failure to launch a product successfully, or delays in manufacturing, could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the FDA or similar regulatory agency could impose higher standards and additional requirements, such as requiring more supporting data and clinical data than previously required, in order to gain regulatory clearance to launch new formulations into the market, which could negatively impact our future net sales. •We contract with clinical research organizations ("CROs") to conduct various studies that are used to support our new product development program. During the third quarter of our fiscal year ended June 29, 2013, certain of these CROs began bankruptcy or receivership proceedings, including PRACS Institute, LLC, PRACS Institute Canada B.C. Ltd., Comprehensive Clinical Development, Inc., and their related entities. It is uncertain what impact these insolvency proceedings may have on their ability to deliver their study results to us or on our ability to rely on their research. To the extent these CROs cannot deliver their study results to us or we cannot rely, in whole or in part, on the research conducted by them, we may be required to delay the launch of new products, which could have a material adverse impact on our future  23Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factors•Compliance with differing regulatory and legal requirements, including tax laws, trade laws, labor, safety, local content, consumer protection regulation, and import or export licensing requirements; and•Consistency and transparency of foreign tax systems, transfer pricing stability across jurisdictions, and our ability to reinvest earnings and cash as appropriate.Many of these factors are beyond our control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased net sales, and diversion of management’s time and energy, any or all of which could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.•While Omega has not historically been subject to U.S. laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, it has been subject to a wide range of European laws and regulations, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010. The comparable U.S. laws and regulations to which Omega is now subject may differ from those to which Omega was historically subject. Therefore, it is possible that certain Omega sales or other activities that were permitted while Omega was an independent company may no longer be permitted. While we are putting into place compliance processes and controls intended to ensure compliance with U.S. and global laws that now apply to Omega, if Omega’s operations fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we could be subject to governmental investigations, legal or regulatory proceedings, substantial fines, and/or other legal or equitable penalties.We operate in a highly regulated industry, and any inability to timely meet current or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. We are subject to the regulations of a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. agencies related to the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distribution, advertising, and sale of our products as described in detail in Item 1. Business - Government Regulation and Pricing. Government regulation in the markets in which we operate could impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. Below are some of the ways in which government regulation could impact our business and/or financial results: •We must obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory agencies in order to manufacture and sell our products in the regions in which we operate. Obtaining this approval can be time consuming and costly. There can be no assurance that, in the event we submit an application for a marketing authorization to any global regulatory agency, we will obtain the approval to market a prescription or OTC product and/or that we will obtain it on a timely basis. Laws unique to the U.S. regulatory framework encourage generic competition by providing eligibility for first generic marketing exclusivity if certain conditions are met. If we are granted generic exclusivity, the exclusivity may be shared with other generic companies, including authorized generics; or it is possible that we may forfeit 180-day exclusivity if we do not obtain regulatory approval or begin marketing the product within the statutory requirements. Finally, if we are not the first to file our ANDA, the FDA may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, thereby effectively delaying the launch of our product.•Global regulatory agencies regularly inspect our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of our third-party suppliers. The failure of one of our facilities, or a facility of one of our third-party suppliers, to comply with applicable laws and regulations may lead to a breach of representations made to our customers, or to regulatory or government action against us related to the products made in that facility. Such action could include suspension of or delay in regulatory approvals. If the compliance violations are severe, agencies of the government may initiate product seizure, injunction, recall, suspension of production or distribution of our products, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, or civil or criminal prosecution, thereby impacting the reputation of all of our products. •In the U.S., the DSCSA requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period beginning on January 1, 2015, for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on July 1, 2015 for dispensers. Similarly, the European Commission passed legislation requiring new product packaging ‘safety features’ to prevent falsification of medicinal products primarily within the  25Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factorscancellation of the product license and loss of product marketing rights. Similar actions could be taken by other global regulatory agencies, which, if we failed to comply, could lead to commercial disruptions or possibly loss of marketing rights.•The Israeli Ministry of Health has issued the first draft of a new Statement of Position ("SOP") that requires a Risk Management Plan ("RMP") to be submitted in all new product marketing authorizations. The SOP is based on European legislation and submission of the EU-approved RMP is preferred. Compliance with the new requirement will become effective beginning May 1, 2016. We are currently evaluating the new requirement and cannot predict how it will impact our future product launches and results of operations.•Changes to the Medical Device Directive are anticipated in 2016, based on a proposal for new European Medical Device Regulation, which has been under discussion since 2012. These changes are expected to include increased supervision by the Notified Bodies by Competent Authorities and revisions to documentation requirements. We will monitor the regulation's progress and cannot currently predict how it will impact the future production and sale of products classified as medical devices.•Our operations extend to numerous countries outside the U.S. and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. These risks include compliance with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, such as restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, and technologies. We must also comply with a variety of U.S. laws related to doing business outside of the U.S., including Office of Foreign Asset Controls, United Nations and EU sanctions; the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012; and rules relating to the use of certain “conflict minerals” under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Further changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare, may affect our business and operations.Healthcare reform and related changes to reimbursement methods in and outside of the United States may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increasing healthcare expenditures have received considerable public attention in many of the countries in which we operate. In the U.S., government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as private insurers, have been focused on cost containment. In the EU and some other markets outside the U.S., the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. Both private and governmental entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. Our Rx segment in particular could be materially adversely impacted by measures taken by governmental entities or private insurers to restrict patients' access to our products or increase pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases, and increased mandatory discounts or rebates. These actions may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices or may reduce the ability of customers to pay for our products, which could materially negatively impact the Rx segment's results of operations.  If we fail to comply with the reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental purchasing and rebate programs, we could be subject to fines or penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As described in Item 1. Business - Medicaid Drug Rebate Programs, we have a Medicaid rebate agreement and VA master agreement in effect with the U.S. government. There are inherent risks associated with participating in the Medicaid drug rebate program, and VA FSS program, including the following:•We are required to report pricing data to CMS, including AMP, on a monthly and quarterly basis and BP and ASP on a quarterly basis. We also are required to report quarterly and annual Non-FAMPs to the VA. If we fail to submit required information, make misrepresentations, or knowingly submit false information to the government as to AMP, ASP, or BP, we may be liable for substantial civil monetary penalties or subject to other enforcement actions, such as under the False Claims Act, and CMS may terminate our Medicaid drug  27Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factorsproduct during the exclusivity period. Even if we are the first to file, in certain circumstances, we may not be able to fully exploit our 180-day exclusivity period. •Our CHC and Rx segments may experience increased price competition as other generic companies produce the same product, sometimes for dramatically lower margins in order to gain market share. Other generic companies may introduce new drugs and/or drug delivery techniques that make our current products less desirable. A drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity, and thereafter we may be subject to further competition from generic products or biosimilars.•The pharmaceutical industry is consolidating. This creates larger competitors and places further pressure on prices, development activities, and customer retention. Our animal health category within the CHC segment has seen a dramatic increase in direct to consumer advertising by several branded competitors, and our nutritionals category has experienced increased competition through alternative channels such as health food stores, direct mail, and direct sales.•We develop and distribute branded products primarily through our BCH segment. We experience competition from other brand-name drug companies, many of which are larger and have more resources to devote to advertising and marketing. These direct competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. Our current and future competitors may develop products comparable or superior to those offered by us at more competitive prices. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business will be harmed through loss of customers or increased negative pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and adversely affect our operating results.Lack of availability, or significant increases in the cost, of raw materials used in manufacturing our products could adversely impact our profit margins and operating results.Affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. In addition, maintaining good supply relationships is essential to our ongoing operations. See Item 1. Business - Materials Sourcing for more information.•We maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous due to regulatory, performance, quality, support, or price considerations. Unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. The effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher-volume or more profitable products. Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of net sales. Additionally, global regulatory requirements for obtaining product approvals could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate material source. As a result, the loss of a single-source supplier could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. •The rapid increase in cost of many raw materials from inflationary forces, such as increased energy costs, and our ability or inability to pass on these increases to our customers could have a negative material impact on our financial results. •Our infant formula products require certain key raw ingredients that are derived from raw milk, such as skim milk powder, whey protein powder, and lactose. Our supply of milk-based ingredients may be limited by the ability of individual dairy farmers and cooperatives to provide raw milk in the amount and quality we deem necessary. Raw milk production is influenced by factors beyond our control including seasonal and environmental factors, governmental agricultural and environmental policy, and global demand. We cannot guarantee that there will be sufficient supplies of these key ingredients necessary to produce infant formula.•Our products, and the raw materials used to make those products, generally have limited shelf lives. Our inventory levels are based, in part, on expectations regarding future sales. We may experience build-ups in inventory if sales slow. Any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products, thereby increasing the risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write- 29Perrigo Company plc - Risk FactorsBecause our business depends upon certain customers for a significant portion of our sales, our business would be adversely affected by a disruption of our relationship with these customers or any material adverse change in these customers' businesses. Sales to our largest customer, Walmart, comprised approximately 13% of our total net sales for the six months ended December 31, 2015. While no other customer individually comprised more than 10% of total net sales, we do have other significant customers. If our relationship with one or more of these other customers, including the terms of doing business with the customers, changes significantly, it could have a material adverse impact on us. See Item 1. Business - Significant Customers for more information.Many of our customers, which include chain drug stores, wholesalers, distributors, hospital systems, and group purchasing organizations, continue to merge or consolidate. Such consolidation has provided, and may continue to provide, customers with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures we face. The emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. In addition, a number of our customers have instituted sourcing programs limiting the number of suppliers of generic pharmaceutical products carried by that customer. These developments have resulted in heightened pricing pressure on our products, as well as competition among generic drug producers for business from a smaller and more selective customer base.Additionally, if we are unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, customers may choose to assess penalties, obtain alternate sources for products, and/or end their relationships with us. Our Specialty Sciences segment generates revenue primarily from royalties on Tysabri®, and any negative developments related to Tysabri® could have a material adverse effect on our business.We occasionally enter into arrangements that entitle us to potential royalties from third parties. Our most significant royalty is the Tysabri® royalty received quarterly from Biogen, which generated $167.3 million of pretax income during the six months ended December 31, 2015. See Item 1. Business - Specialty Sciences for more information on our Tysabri® royalty arrangement. Our pretax income could be adversely affected if the royalty streams decline in future periods. Factors that may have an adverse effect on our Tysabri® royalty stream include: •Foreign currency movement, which could have a negative impact on Biogen's Tysabri® sales, thereby reducing our royalties;•Companies working to develop new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis that, if successfully developed, would compete with, or could gain greater acceptance than, Tysabri® and damage our market share;•Any negative developments relating to Tysabri®, such as safety, efficacy, or reimbursement issues, could reduce demand for Tysabri®; and•Adverse regulatory or legislative developments could limit or prohibit the sale of Tysabri®, such as restrictions on the use of Tysabri® or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, which may significantly reduce expected net sales and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues.Additionally, Tysabri® sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings on the label, including the risk of developing Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy ("PML"), a serious brain infection. The risk of developing PML may increase with prior immunosuppressant use, longer treatment duration, or the presence of certain antibodies. Increased incidence of PML could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label, or result in market withdrawal. In addition, the result of ongoing or future clinical trials involving Tysabri® or other adverse events reported in association with the use of Tysabri® may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of Tysabri®.  31Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factors•Scientific studies and media reports can have a negative impact on the demand for certain of our products, regardless of whether they directly involve us. For instance, there have been recent reports and investigations questioning the efficacy of regular consumption of certain vitamins and supplements and challenging the dietary supplement industry. Our VMS sales have been negatively impacted by the media attention.Increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputation damage.The Company and our employees increasingly utilize social media as a means of internal and external communication. •To the extent that we seek to use social media tools as a means to communicate about our products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. As a result, despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that our use of social media for such purposes may cause us to be found in violation of them. A violation of such guidelines may damage our reputation as well as cause potential lawsuits and adversely affect our operating activities.•Our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media tools in ways that may not be aligned with our social media strategy, may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. •Negative posts or comments about us, store brands or generic pharmaceuticals, or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation and could adversely affect the price of our securities. In addition, negative posts or comments about our products could result in increased pharmacovigilance reporting requirements, which may give rise to liability if we fail to fully comply with such requirements.Our quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of our management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. Our quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. Some of these factors include the severity, length and timing of the cough/cold/flu and allergy season, and flea and tick season, the timing of new product approvals and introductions by us and our competitors, price competition, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in accounting pronouncements, the magnitude and timing of R&D investments, changes in the levels of inventories maintained by our customers, and the timing of retailer promotional programs. We may not realize the benefits of business acquisitions and divestitures we enter into, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. One of our strategies is inorganic growth through the acquisition of products and companies that we expect will benefit the Company. This strategy comes with a number of financial, managerial, and operational risks. We may not realize the benefits of an acquisition because of integration and other challenges, including, but not limited to the following:•The difficulty involved with managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company; •Uncertainties involved in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities of the respective parties;•Unanticipated changes in the business, industry, market or general economic conditions different from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the transaction;•Potential inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies, or return on investment, from an acquisition in the amounts or on the time frame anticipated; 33Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factorsdifference between the carrying amount of the intangible assets and their estimated fair value. See Item 8. Note 3 for further information.No goodwill impairment charges were recorded for the six months ended December 31, 2015, however our testing indicated that our Specialty Sciences reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value by less than 10%. Management evaluated the primary source of cash flow in this segment, the Tysabri® royalty stream, based on a combination of factors including independent external research, information provided from our royalty partner, and internal estimates. Based on this information, management’s expectations for future cash flow from this royalty stream have been reduced primarily due to anticipated new competitors entering the market and unfavorable changes in the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. Actual performance different from the assumptions utilized in our quantitative analysis may further reduce the fair value of the reporting unit, which may result in the fair value no longer exceeding the carrying value, which would require us to record an impairment charge.     We perform an impairment analysis on intangible assets subject to amortization when there is an indication that the carrying amount of any individual asset may not be recoverable. Any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicates a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. There can be no assurance that our strategic initiatives will achieve their intended effects. We are in the process of implementing certain initiatives designed to increase operational efficiency and improve our return on invested capital by globalizing our supply chain through global shared service arrangements, streamlining our organizational structure, and disposing of certain assets. We believe these initiatives will enhance our revenue, operating margins, and earnings; however, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will produce the anticipated benefits. Any delay or failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could have a material adverse effect on our projected results.Global RisksOur business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations.We manufacture, source raw materials, and sell our products in a number of countries. The percentage of our business outside the U.S. has been increasing. We are subject to risks associated with international manufacturing and sales, including:•Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;•Problems related to markets with different cultural biases or political systems;•Possible difficulties in enforcing agreements;•Longer payment cycles and shipping lead-times;•Difficulties obtaining export or import licenses or changes in import/export regulations; and •Imposition of withholding or other taxes. Additionally, we are subject to periodic reviews and audits by governmental authorities responsible for administering import/export regulations. To the extent that we are unable to successfully defend against an audit or review, we may be required to pay assessments, penalties, and increased duties.Certain of our facilities operate in a special purpose sub-zone established by the U.S. Department of Commerce Foreign Trade Zone Board, which allows us certain tax advantages on products and raw materials shipped through these facilities. If the Foreign Trade Zone Board were to revoke the sub-zone designation or limit our use, we could be subject to increased duties.Although we believe that we conduct our business in compliance with applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery and economic sanctions or other anti-corruption laws, if we are found to not be in compliance with such laws or other anti-corruption laws, we could be subject to governmental investigations, legal or regulatory proceedings, substantial fines, and/or other legal or equitable penalties. This risk increases in locations outside of the U.S., particularly in locations that have not previously had to comply with the FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act, and similar laws. 35Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factors•Our facilities in Israel are within a conflict zone. If terrorist acts or military actions were to result in substantial damage to our facilities, our business activities would be disrupted since, with respect to most products, we would need to obtain prior regulatory agency approval for a change in manufacturing site. In addition, our insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. •The U.S. Department of State and other governments have at times issued advisories regarding travel to certain countries in which we do business. As a result, regulatory agencies have at various times curtailed or prohibited their inspectors from traveling to inspect facilities. If these inspectors are unable to inspect our facilities, the regulatory agencies could withhold approval for new products intended to be produced at those facilities. •Our international operations may be subject to interruption due to travel restrictions, war, terrorist acts, and other armed conflicts. For example, Belgium and Eastern Europe may be exposed to further acts of terrorism, which could give rise to travel and increased security restrictions. Also, further threats of armed hostilities in Mexico could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the cancellation of contracts or the loss of assets. These events could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations. Risks Related to Litigation and InsuranceWe are or may become involved in lawsuits and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings.We may become involved in lawsuits arising from various commercial matters, including, but not limited to, competitive issues, contract issues, intellectual property matters, false advertising/unfair competition, taxation matters, workers' compensation, product quality/recall issues, environmental remediation issues, and regulatory issues. Litigation is unpredictable and can be costly. No assurance can be made that litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations in the future. See Item 8. Note 16 for more information. •We may be subject to liability if our products violate applicable laws or regulations in the jurisdictions where our products are distributed. The successful assertion of product liability or other product-related claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages, and we could incur substantial legal expenses. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation may suffer.•We are a defendant in product liability lawsuits arising out of serious adverse events, including deaths, which occurred in patients taking Tysabri®. We expect additional product liability lawsuits related to Tysabri® usage to be filed. Tysabri®'s distributor, Biogen, and Perrigo will each be responsible for 50% of losses and expenses arising out of any Tysabri® product liability claims. Along with Biogen, we intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits, however, we cannot predict how these cases will be resolved. Adverse results in one or more of these cases could result in substantial monetary judgments not covered by insurance.•We may face environmental exposures including, for example, those relating to discharges from and materials handled as part of our operations, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances or wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. While we do not have any material remediation liabilities currently outstanding, we may in the future face liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances or petroleum products on, under or in our currently or formerly owned property, or from a third-party disposal facility that we may have used, without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants. The actual or alleged presence of these substances, or the failure to remediate them, could have adverse effects, including, for example, substantial investigative or remedial obligations and limitations on our ability to sell or rent affected property or to borrow funds using affected property as collateral. There can be no assurance that environmental liabilities and costs will not have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 1. Business - Information Applicable to All Reportable Segments - Environmental for more information. 37Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factors•We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees, and consultants. If these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. Furthermore, trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the value of such intellectual property rights. Significant increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of the insurance we maintain could adversely impact our financial condition. To protect the Company against various potential liabilities, we maintain a variety of insurance programs, including property, general and product, and directors' and officers' liability. We may reevaluate and change the types and levels of insurance coverage that we purchase. We are self-insured when insurance is not available or not available at reasonable premiums. Risks associated with insurance plans include:•Insurance costs could increase significantly, or the availability of insurance may decrease, either of which could adversely impact our financial condition; •Deductible or retention amounts could increase or our coverage could be reduced in the future and to the extent losses occur, there could be an adverse effect on our financial results depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage we maintained; •Product liability insurance may not be available to us at an economically reasonable cost (or at all for certain specific products) or our insurance may not adequately cover our liability in connection with product liability claims (see Item 8. Note 16 for further information related to legal proceedings); and•As our business inherently exposes us to claims for injuries allegedly resulting from the use of our products, we may become subject to claims for which we are not adequately insured. Unanticipated payment of a large claim may have a material adverse effect on our business. Tax Related RisksThe U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") may not agree with the conclusion that we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.Although we are incorporated in Ireland, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code"). For U.S. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. Because we are an Irish incorporated entity, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. Section 7874 of the Code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.For Perrigo Company plc to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under section 7874 of the Code, either (i) the former stockholders of Perrigo Company must own (within the meaning of section 7874 of the Code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our stock by reason of holding shares in Perrigo Company (the "ownership test") as of the closing of the Elan acquisition or (ii) we must have substantial business activities in Ireland after the Elan acquisition (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group). Upon our acquisition of Elan, Perrigo Company stockholders held 71% (by both vote and value) of our shares. As a result, we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, we cannot assure that the IRS will agree with our position that the ownership test is satisfied. There is limited guidance regarding the section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test.Based on the limited guidance available, we currently expect that Section 7874 of the Code likely will limit our and our U.S. affiliates’ ability to use their U.S. tax attributes such as net operating losses to offset certain U.S.  39Perrigo Company plc - Risk FactorsThe resolution of uncertain tax positions could be unfavorable, which could have an adverse effect on our business.Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that our tax filings are prepared in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties or interest assessments.•The IRS audit of our fiscal years ended June 27, 2009 and June 26, 2010 had previously concluded with the issuance of a statutory notice of deficiency on August 27, 2014. While we had previously agreed on certain adjustments and made associated payments of $8.0 million inclusive of interest in November 2014, the statutory notice of deficiency asserted various additional positions, including transfer pricing, relative to the audit of fiscal years ended June 27, 2009 and June 26, 2010. The statutory notice asserted an incremental tax obligation of approximately $68.9 million, inclusive of interest and penalties. We disagree with the IRS’s positions asserted in the notice of deficiency. In January 2015, we paid this amount, a prerequisite to being able to contest the IRS’s positions in U.S. Federal court, and in June 2015 we filed a request for a refund. The IRS denied our request for a refund. In the next several months we are likely to file a complaint in federal district court claiming a refund for these amounts. An unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods.•The IRS is auditing our fiscal years ended June 25, 2011 and June 30, 2012, and may make adjustments consistent with their claims for the fiscal years ended June 27, 2009 and June 26, 2010. Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the Belgium Tax Authority notified us that all Belgium locations will be audited for the years ending December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2014.There are numerous other income tax jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of any audit or related litigation. Risks Related to Capital and Liquidity Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to operate our business.We anticipate that cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and borrowings available under our credit facilities will substantially fund working capital and capital expenditures. Our business requires continuous capital investments, and there can be no assurance that financial capital will always be available on favorable terms or at all. Additionally, our leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect the business. At December 31, 2015, our total indebtedness outstanding was $6.0 billion.•Downgrades to our credit ratings may limit our access to capital and materially increase borrowing costs on current or future financing, including via trade payables with vendors. Customers' inclination to purchase goods from us may also be affected by the publicity associated with deterioration of our credit ratings.•Our senior credit facilities, the agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness contain a number of restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied.•We also must comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. These restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, such as acquisitions. If we do not comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our senior credit facilities, agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness, we could be in default under those agreements, and the debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable.  41Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factors•Depending on the circumstances, shareholders may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under Irish law as a result of the acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, Irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax, and capital acquisitions tax.•There is no treaty between Ireland and the U.S. providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. Before a foreign judgment would be deemed enforceable in Ireland, the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction and be for a final and conclusive sum. An Irish court may exercise its right to refuse to recognize and enforce a foreign judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if it violated Irish public policy, if it is in breach of natural justice, or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. •An Irish court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Judgments of U.S. courts of liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws may not be enforced by Irish courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in Ireland.We are subject to Irish takeover rules under which our Board of Directors is not permitted to take any action without Irish Takeover Panel approval that might frustrate an offer for our ordinary shares once we have received an approach that may lead to an offer, or have reason to believe an offer is imminent. Further, it could be more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated transaction than if we were a U.S. company because the shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions differ, and in some cases are greater, under Irish law. We may be limited in our ability to pay dividends in the future.A number of factors may limit our ability to pay dividends in the future, including:•The availability of distributable reserves, as approved by our shareholders and the Irish High Court; •Our ability to receive cash dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries•Compliance with applicable laws and debt covenants; and•Our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. ITEM 1B