. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Operations for more information and risks associated with competition.SPECIALTY SCIENCESOverviewThe Specialty Sciences segment is comprised primarily of assets focused on the treatment of multiple sclerosis, specifically in connection with the drug Tysabri®. We are entitled to royalty payments from Biogen Idec Inc. ("Biogen") based on its Tysabri® sales in all indications and geographies. We received royalties of 12% on worldwide Biogen sales of Tysabri® from December 18, 2013 through April 30, 2014. Beginning on May 1, 2014 we received, and going forward we will receive, royalties of 18% on annual worldwide Biogen sales of Tysabri® up to $2.0 billion and 25% on sales above $2.0 billion. In fiscal year 2015, Specialty Sciences contributed 7% to consolidated net sales.Competition    Tysabri® is a complex biological product, patent protected through 2024, and is administered under a strict Risk and Evaluation Mitigation Strategy ("REMS") program. In the event that the patent is invalidated or is infringed upon or if a biosimilar is introduced, the financial performance of our Specialty Sciences segment would be materially adversely affected. Tysabri® competes with many companies that are working to develop successful new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis. If any of these competing products have a similar or more attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience, or safety, future sales of Tysabri® could be limited. However, the competition may be limited in its product development as Tysabri® is administered under an FDA-approved REMS. See . Risk Factors - Risks Related to Operations for information and risks associated with competition.INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO ALL REPORTABLE SEGMENTS Research and DevelopmentResearch and development is a key component of our business strategy and, while managed centrally, is performed in various locations in the countries in which we operate. While we conduct a significant amount of our own R&D, we also enter into strategic alliance agreements to obtain the rights to manufacture and/or distribute new products. R&D spending was $187.8 million, $152.5 million, and $115.2 million for fiscal years 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. In addition, we wrote off in-process research and development ("IPR&D") from previous acquisitions totaling $6.0 million during fiscal 2014 and $9.0 million during fiscal 2013 due to changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for various projects.Fiscal year 2015 included incremental R&D expense due to the Omega acquisition, as well as entry into a collaboration arrangement and an R&D contractual arrangement under which we funded a total of $28.0 million of R&D. Fiscal year 2014 included incremental research and development expense attributable to the Sergeant's Pet Care Products, Inc. ("Sergeant's") and Velcera Inc. ("Velcera") acquisitions that closed during fiscal year 2014, as well as research and development expense related to the ELND005 Phase 2 clinical program in collaboration with Transition Therapeutics, Inc. ("Transition") we acquired from Elan. We ended our collaboration with Transition during the third quarter of fiscal year 2014 and are no longer responsible for ongoing development activities and costs associated with ELND005. Fiscal year 2013 included incremental R&D expenses attributable to the acquisition of Sergeant's, Velcera, and Rosemont Pharmaceuticals Ltd. See Item 8. Note 2 and Item 8. Note 15 for more information on the acquisitions, collaboration arrangement, and R&D contractual arrangement noted above. We anticipate that R&D expenditures will increase above fiscal year 2015 levels in dollar terms but will remain relatively flat to slightly higher as a percentage of net sales for the foreseeable future as we continue to  11Perrigo Company plc - Item 1cultivate our presence in the Rx-to-OTC switch and generic pharmaceutical markets and develop our internal R&D capabilities. See . Risk Factors - Risks Related to Operations for risks associated with materials sourcing.Manufacturing and DistributionOur primary manufacturing facilities are in the U.S. and Israel. We also have secondary manufacturing facilities in the U.K., Belgium, France, Germany, Mexico, Australia, and India, along with a joint venture in China. See . Risk Factors - Risks Related to Operations for risks associated with customers. 12Perrigo Company plc - Item 1SeasonalityWe historically have been impacted by seasonal demand and consumer dynamics in the retail environment in which our customers operate. Sales of OTC pharmaceutical products in the CHC segment are typically subject to seasonal demands for cough/cold/flu products in our second and third fiscal year quarters and allergy products in our first and fourth fiscal year quarters. Our BCH sales are also impacted by seasonality and tend to peak in the fourth fiscal year quarter due to increased demand for seasonal health and wellness products. In addition, our animal health products are subject to seasonal demand for flea and tick products that typically peaks during the warmer weather months, which occurs during our fourth fiscal year quarter. Our Rx Pharmaceutical, Specialty Sciences, and Other segments' sales are not generally impacted by seasonal conditions.EnvironmentalWe are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. We have made, and continue to make, expenditures necessary to comply with applicable environmental laws, but do not believe that the costs for complying with such laws and regulations will be material to our business. We do not have any material remediation liabilities outstanding.While we believe that climate change could present risks to our business, including increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to our facilities, water limitations, and disruptions to our supply chain, we do not believe these risks are material to our business in the near term.    Corporate Social ResponsibilityWe are committed to doing business in an ethical manner. We also have a long history of environmentally sound and efficient operations, safe and healthy working conditions, and active participation in the communities where we are located. As reflected in our Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment Statement, we remain committed to:•Helping consumers access safe, effective and affordable healthcare products;•Complying with regulatory and legal requirements;•Demonstrating environmental stewardship;•Continuously improving packaging sustainability;•Protecting human rights of our global employees and challenging our partners to do the same;•Providing a safe and healthy work environment for our employees; and•Establishing effective community partnerships.Through these efforts, we strive to minimize our impact on the environment, drive responsible business practices, and ensure the welfare of our employees now and into the future.GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND PRICING The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, advertising, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by a variety of agencies in the localities in which our products are sold. In addition, we manufacture and market certain of our products in accordance with standards set by various organizations. We believe that our policies, operations, and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which we are subject. See . Risk Factors - Risks Related to Operations for risks related to the above-mentioned programs.Other U.S. Regulations and OrganizationsWe are subject to various other national, state, non-governmental, and local agency rules and regulations. Compliance with the laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our current products and the discovery, development, and introduction of new products requires substantial effort, expense and capital investment. Other regulatory agencies, organizations and legislation that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: •Physician Payment Sunshine Act - This act requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payment database and public reporting of the payment data.•Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 ("FCPA") - This act and other similar anti-bribery laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage.•Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") - This agency oversees the advertising and other promotional practices of consumer products marketers. The FTC considers whether a product’s claims are substantiated, truthful and not misleading. The FTC also reviews mergers and acquisitions of companies exceeding specified thresholds and investigates certain business practices relevant to the healthcare industry. •NSF International ("NSF") - The NSF is an independent, not-for-profit, non-governmental organization that provides risk management services for public health and safety. Many of our dietary supplement products are certified under NSF/ANSI Standard 173.•International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") - The ISO Standards specify requirements for a Quality Management System that demonstrates the ability to consistently provide products that meet customer and applicable regulatory standards and includes processes to ensure continuous improvement. Our infant formula manufacturing sites are ISO 9001-2008 Certified for Quality Management Systems. ISO inspections are conducted at least annually.•United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc. ("USP") - The USP is a non-governmental, standard-setting organization. By reference, the FFDCA incorporates the USP quality and testing standards and monographs as the standard that must be met for the listed drugs, unless compliance with those standards is specifically disclaimed on the product’s labeling. USP standards exist for most Rx and OTC pharmaceuticals and many nutritional supplements. The FDA typically requires USP compliance as part of cGMP compliance. 18Perrigo Company plc - Item 1Regulation•Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ("HIPAA") - We could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA or for aiding and abetting the violation of HIPAA.•Consumer Product Safety Commission ("CPSC") - The CPSC has published regulations requiring child resistant packaging on certain products including pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. The manufacturer of any product that is subject to any CPSC rule, ban, standard or regulation must certify that, based on a reasonable testing program, the product complies with CPSC requirements. •Other State Agencies - We are subject to regulation by numerous other state health departments, insurance departments, boards of pharmacy, state controlled substance agencies, state consumer health and safety regulations, and other comparable state agencies, each of which have license requirements and fees that vary by state.Regulation Outside the U.S. We develop and manufacture products in a number of countries outside the U.S., including many European countries, Israel, India, Mexico and Australia, each of which has its own regulatory environment. Following the Omega acquisition, our business has expanded significantly into non-U.S. markets, subjecting us to increased regulation in those markets. In addition, we export many of our products to other countries. In the U.S., exporting requirements are regulated by the FDA and, where appropriate, DEA laws. Outside the U.S., each individual country has its own requirements for the importation of products. Each country requires approval of products by that country's regulatory agencies through a registration process. Registration requirements include the manufacturing process, formula, packaging, testing, labeling, advertising, and marketing of the products. Each country regulates what is required and may be represented to the public on labeling and promotional material. Approval for the sale of our products by these regulatory agencies may be subject to delays. We believe that our policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which our operations are subject. See below for more information on regulation within the significant regions in which we operate. European UnionThe European pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and much of the legislative and regulatory framework is driven by the European Parliament and the European Commission. This has many benefits, including the potential to harmonize standards across the complex European market, but it also has the potential to create difficulties affecting the whole European market. Some elements of the European Falsified Medicines Directive (the “Directive”) were enacted into national laws during 2013. The provisions of the Directive are intended to reduce the risk of counterfeit medicines entering the supply chain and also to ensure the quality of API manufactured outside of the European Union ("EU"). The requirements deriving from European pharmacovigilance legislation are constantly expanding due to increasing guidance on good vigilance practices and increased communication on inspectors’ expectations. While these new requirements are in the interest of patient safety and transparency, they are an increasing administrative burden, which drives our costs and headcount to be higher. Pharmacovigilance fee legislation was effective in late 2014. It includes (i) a per license fee that is intended for the maintenance of the European Pharmacovigilance System; and (ii) a per activity fee, for the assessment of pharmacovigilance safety evaluation reports, study protocols for post authorization safety studies and referrals.Pharmaceutical manufacturers in the EU are regulated by the EMA. We are required to submit medicinal products, including generic versions of previously approved products and new strengths, dosages and formulations of previously approved products, to the EMA and its member states for review and marketing authorization before such products are placed on the market in the EU.Marketing authorizations are granted to applicants after the relevant health authority issues a positive assessment of quality, safety and efficacy of the product. In order to receive such assessment, applicants must submit applications containing the results of pre-clinical tests, pharmaceutical tests, and clinical trials with respect to original products, or originator data with respect to the generic versions of previously approved products. All of  19Perrigo Company plc - Item 1Regulationthese tests or trials must be conducted in accordance within European regulations and must allow the reviewing body to evaluate the quality, safety, and efficacy of the medicinal product.The EU presents complex challenges from a regulatory perspective. There is over-arching legislation that is implemented at a local level by the 28 individual member states, Iceland, Liechtenstein, and Norway. Between 1995 and 1998, the legislation was revised in an attempt to simplify and harmonize product registration. This revised legislation introduced the mutual recognition (“MR”) procedure, whereby after submission and approval by the authorities of the so-called reference member state (“RMS”), further applications can be submitted into the other chosen member states (known as concerned member states). Theoretically, the authorization of the RMS should be mutually recognized by the concerned member states. More typically, however, a degree of re-evaluation is carried out by the concerned member states. In November 2005, this legislation was further revised. In addition to the MR procedure, the decentralized procedure (“DCP”) was introduced. The DCP is also led by the RMS, but applications are simultaneously submitted to all selected countries, provided that no national marketing authorization has been granted yet for the medicinal product in question. Beginning in 2005, the centralized procedure operated by the EMA became available for generic versions of innovator products approved through the centralized authorization procedure. The centralized procedure results in a single marketing authorization, which, once granted, can be used by the marketing-authorization holder to file for individual country reimbursement and make the medicine available in all the EU countries listed on the application.In the EU, as well as many other locations around the world, the manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products is regulated in a manner substantially similar to that of the U.S. requirements, which generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing, and importation of any pharmaceutical product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. The registration file relating to any particular product must contain medical data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. Health ministries are authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful or ineffective or if it is manufactured or marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions.In addition to obtaining marketing authorization for each product, all member states require that a manufacturer’s facilities obtain approval from the national authority. The EU has a code of GMP that each manufacturer must follow and comply with. Regulatory authorities in the EU may conduct inspections of the manufacturing facilities to review procedures, operating systems, and personnel qualifications.In the EU, member states regulate the pricing of pharmaceutical products, and in some cases, the formulation and dosing of products. This regulation is handled by individual member state national health services. These individual regulatory bodies can result in considerable price differences and product availability among member states. The implementation of tendering systems for the pricing of pharmaceuticals in several countries generally impacts drug pricing for generics; generally “tendering” refers to a system that requires bids to be submitted to the government by competing manufacturers to be the exclusive, or one of a few, suppliers of a product in a particular country.Data exclusivity provisions exist in many countries, including in the EU, where these provisions were recently extended, although the application is not uniform. In general, these exclusivity provisions prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications to the health authorities for a fixed period of time following the first approval of the brand-name product in that country. As these exclusivity provisions operate independently of patent exclusivity, they may prevent the submission of generic drug applications for some products even after the patent protection has expired.Further, faced with major budget constraints, many European countries have resorted to price cuts that affect both innovative and generic pharmaceuticals, although in some countries it has disproportionately affected generic products. In addition, some EU countries recently had to address statements and rumors claiming that generics are not as safe and effective as reference drugs, which may undermine efforts to increase generic utilization rates. 20Perrigo Company plc - Item 1RegulationOther Countries •Israel: In Israel, the manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products is regulated in a manner similar in many respects to U.S. or EU legal requirements, and laws generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing and importation of any pharmaceutical product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. The registration file relating to any particular product must contain medical data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. The Israel Health Ministry is authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful, ineffective, or manufactured and marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions. •Mexico: Pharmaceutical manufacturers and products in Mexico are regulated by the Federal Commission for Protection against Health Risks, which is a decentralized body of the Mexican Ministry of Health responsible for registering pharmaceutical products, regulating research, development, production, storage and distribution of such products, and monitoring the quality, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products commercialized in Mexico. The General Health Law, as well as a catalog of regulations regulate the conditions for the establishment, production, import, export, and sale of products of the pharmaceutical industry in Mexico. There are also several Mexican Official Standards on specific subjects of the pharmaceutical market in Mexico to be observed, such as the labeling or good practices for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products.•Australia: Pharmaceutical manufacturers and products are regulated in Australia by the TGA, which oversees the quality, safety, and efficacy of pharmaceutical products and other therapeutic goods. All manufacturing facilities and processes must comply with good manufacturing practices, and pharmaceutical products manufactured must be listed in the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods, before they can be marketed or supplied for sale in Australia. The government regulates the pharmaceuticals market through the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, which is a governmental healthcare program established to subsidize the cost of pharmaceuticals to Australian citizens. •China: The export of our infant formula to China is subject to regulation by multiple Chinese regulatory agencies. The regulations applicable to infant formula and imported infant formulas are evolving, and further regulatory revisions are expected to be implemented in the future. In April 2014, the Certification and Accreditation Administration of the People’s Republic of China ("CNCA") conducted an assessment on registration of infant formula dairy producers in the U.S. As a result of this assessment, our Vermont infant formula manufacturing site was approved by CNCA to export infant formula to China. EmployeesAs of June 27, 2015 we had approximately 13,500 full-time and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 3,000 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. As of June 28, 2014 we had approximately 10,200 full-time and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 1,500 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The increase in both total employees and employees covered by collective bargaining agreements was due to the Omega acquisition. The majority of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements are located in Europe, Mexico, and Israel. We consider our employee relations generally satisfactory.Available InformationOur principal executive offices are located at the Treasury Building, Lower Grand Canal Street, Dublin 2, Ireland and our administrative offices are located at 515 Eastern Avenue, Allegan, Michigan 49010. Our telephone number is +353 1 7094000. Our website address is www.perrigo.com, where we make available free of charge our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, including any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). These filings are also available to the public at www.sec.gov and www.isa.gov.il. 21Perrigo Company plc - Risk FactorsOur CHC and BCH segments are impacted by changes in consumer preferences. If we are unable to adapt to these changes, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted.While the market for store brand products has grown in recent years, there can be no assurance that the growth will continue. Additionally, consumer preferences related to health and nutritional concerns may change, which could negatively impact demand for our CHC and BCH products or cause us to incur additional costs to change our products or product packaging. •The future growth and stability of U.S. store brand market share will be impacted, in part, by general economic conditions, which can influence consumers to switch to and from store brand products. Our CHC segment sales could be negatively affected if economic conditions improve and consumers return to purchasing higher-priced brand-name products. Conversely, while store brand products present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, if economic conditions deteriorate, our CHC segment sales could be negatively impacted if consumers forgo obtaining healthcare or reduce their healthcare spending.•Our BCH segment's success is due in large part to the continued growth in demand for its lifestyle products, which include weight-loss products and various dietary supplements. If demand for these products decreases, our BCH segment's results of operations would be negatively impacted.•Our CHC customers may request changes in packaging to meet consumer demands, which could cause us to incur inventory obsolescence charges and redesign costs, which would negatively impact the CHC segment's results of operations. •Our infant formula product category within our CHC segment is subject to changing consumer preferences and health and nutrition-related concerns. Our business depends, in part, on consumer preferences and choices, including the number of mothers who choose to use infant formula products rather than breastfeed their babies. To the extent that private, public, and government sources may promote the benefits of breastfeeding over the use of infant formula, there could be a reduced demand for infant formula products. We could also be adversely impacted by an increase in the number of families that are provided with infant formula by the U.S. federal government through the Women, Infants and Children program, as we do not participate in this program. We face risks associated with the successful integration of our recently-acquired Omega business.As described in Item 1. Business - Major Recent Developments, we closed on the Omega acquisition on March 30, 2015. In addition to the risks mentioned under "We may not realize the benefits of business acquisitions and divestitures we enter into, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results", the Omega acquisition exposes us to a number of additional business, financial, and competitive risks, including:•The Omega acquisition represents a major shift in our business, both geographically, as our business is now more heavily concentrated in European markets than before, and operationally, as the Omega business sells well-known branded products using a large sales force. These changes may present challenges and risks related to, among other things, our attempt to create synergies with Omega. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate Omega or otherwise realize the expected benefits of the Omega acquisition. •Our success in the European markets in which Omega operates will depend on a number of factors, such as:•our ability to commercialize new products;•our ability to adapt to changes in economic and political conditions;•fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates;•compliance with differing regulatory and legal requirements, including tax laws, trade laws, labor, safety, local content, consumer protection regulation and import or export licensing requirements; and•consistency and transparency of foreign tax systems, transfer pricing stability across jurisdictions, and our ability to reinvest earnings and cash as appropriate. 23Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factors•On August 13, 2015, Mylan announced that it formally lowered the acceptance condition for its offer to acquire Perrigo from not less than 80% of Perrigo ordinary shares to greater than 50% of Perrigo ordinary shares.Responding to the Proposal, Offer, and Revised Offer has been, and may continue to be, a distraction for certain of our management and employees, and has required, and may continue to require, us to incur additional expenses and costs. Since the announcement of the offer, we have incurred $13.4 million in related fees. Management and employee distraction related to Mylan's unsolicited interest also may adversely impact our ability to optimally conduct our business and pursue our strategic objectives. Further, we are deemed to be in an "offer period" for the purposes of the Irish Takeover Rules, which may restrict our ability to execute our strategy on a timely basis.    We operate in a highly regulated industry, and any inability to timely meet current or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.We are subject to the regulations of a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. agencies related to the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distribution, advertising, and sale of our products as described in detail in Item 1. Business - Government Regulation and Pricing. Government regulation in the markets in which we operate could impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. Below are some of the ways in which government regulation could impact our business and/or financial results: •We must obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory agencies in order to manufacture and sell our products in the regions in which we operate. Obtaining this approval can be time consuming and costly. There can be no assurance that, in the event we submit an application to the FDA or any other regulatory agency approval, we will obtain the approval to market a prescription or OTC product and/or that we will obtain it on a timely basis. If we are granted generic exclusivity, the exclusivity may be shared with other generic companies, including authorized generics; or it is possible that we may forfeit 180-day exclusivity if we do not obtain regulatory approval or begin marketing the product within the statutory requirements. Finally, if we are not the first to file our ANDA, the FDA may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, thereby effectively delaying the launch of our product.•If the FDA reclassifies certain ANDA or NDA drug products to the OTC monograph system and no longer requires the approval of an ANDA or NDA prior to marketing, there may be increased competition and lower profitability related to such products. While we would make appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance with any changes and updates to the OTC monograph system, we cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted, the effect of any such legislation on our business, or how it may impact the competitive landscape. See Item 1. Business - Consumer Healthcare for more information on the OTC monograph system.•Regulatory agencies regularly inspect our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of our third-party suppliers. The failure of one of our facilities, or a facility of one of our third-party suppliers, to comply with applicable laws and regulations may lead to a breach of representations made to our customers, or to regulatory or government action against us related to the products made in that facility. Such action could include: suspension of or delay in regulatory approvals, product seizure, injunction, recall, suspension of production or distribution of our products, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, civil or criminal prosecution. Additionally, the agency could make its concerns public, thereby impacting our reputation. •The FDA, and similar regulatory agencies, have the authority to require new clinical or bioequivalence studies, limit distribution, or order label changes. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals if there are concerns over a product's safety or efficacy. The FDA also conducts non-prescription drug advisory committee meetings to evaluate the safety of introducing prescription products to the OTC market. The expansion of Rx-to-OTC switches is critical to our future growth. FDA reluctance to approve OTC switches in new product categories could impact that growth.  25Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factors•Our prescription products that are marketed without approved applications must meet certain manufacturing and labeling standards established by the FDA. The FDA takes a risk-based approach to its enforcement and considers factors such as the introduction date of the product's active ingredients, lack of safety concerns, and how many years the product has been marketed. There can be no assurance that the FDA will continue this policy or not take a contrary position with respect to any individual product or group of products. If the FDA were to take a contrary position, we may be required to seek FDA approval for these products or withdraw the products from the market. Our annual sales for such unapproved products were approximately $46.5 million in fiscal year 2015.•In addition, our operations extend to numerous countries outside the U.S. and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. These risks include compliance with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, such as restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, and technologies. We must also comply with a variety of U.S. laws related to doing business outside of the U.S., including Office of Foreign Asset Controls, United Nations and EU sanctions; the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012; and rules relating to the use of certain “conflict minerals” under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Further changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare may affect our business and operations.Healthcare reform and related changes to reimbursement methods in and outside of the United States may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increasing healthcare expenditures have received considerable public attention in many of the countries in which we operate. In the U.S., government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as private insurers have been focused on cost containment. In the EU and some other markets outside the U.S., the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. Both private and governmental entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. Our Rx Pharmaceutical segment in particular could be adversely impacted by measures taken by governmental entities or private insurers to restrict patients' access to our products or increase pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases, and increased mandatory discounts or rebates. These actions may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices or may reduce the ability of customers to pay for our products, which could negatively impact the Rx Pharmaceutical segment's results of operations.  If we fail to comply with the reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental purchasing and rebate programs, we could be subject to fines or penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As described in Item 1. Business - Medicaid Drug Rebate Programs, we have a Medicaid rebate agreement in effect with the U.S. government. There are inherent risks associated with participating in the Medicaid drug rebate program including the following:•We are required to report pricing data to CMS on a monthly basis. If we fail to submit required information, make misrepresentations, or knowingly submit false information to the government as to AMP, ASP, or BP, we may be liable for substantial civil monetary penalties or subject to other enforcement actions, such as under the False Claims Act, and CMS may terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement. In that event, U.S. federal payments may not be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs.•Health reform legislation enacted in 2010 requires the use of AMP data to calculate FULs and amends the statutory definitions of AMP and "multiple source drug" in a manner that materially affects the calculation of FULs. CMS also has begun surveying and publishing retail community pharmacy acquisition cost and consumer price information to provide state Medicaid agencies with a basis for comparing their own  27Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factorstherapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity, and thereafter we may be subject to further competition from generic products or biosimilars. •The pharmaceutical industry is consolidating. This creates larger competitors and places further pressure on prices, development activities, and customer retention. Our animal health category within the CHC segment also has seen a dramatic increase in direct to consumer advertising by several branded competitors, and our nutritionals category has experienced increased competition through alternative channels such as health food stores, direct mail, and direct sales.•We develop and distribute branded products through our BCH segment. We experience competition from other brand-name drug companies, many of which are larger and have more resources to devote to advertising and marketing. These direct competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. Our current and future competitors may develop products comparable or superior to those offered by us at more competitive prices. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business will be harmed through loss of customers or increased negative pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and adversely affect our operating results.Lack of availability, or significant increases in the cost, of raw materials used in manufacturing our products could adversely impact our profit margins and operating results.Affordable high-quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. In addition, maintaining good supply relationships is essential to our ongoing operations. See Item 1. Business - Materials Sourcing for more information.•We maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to regulatory, performance, quality, support, or price considerations. Unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. The effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher-volume or more profitable products. Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of net sales. Additionally, FDA requirements for products approved through the ANDA or NDA process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate material source. As a result, the loss of a single-source supplier could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. •The rapid increase in cost of many raw materials from inflationary forces, such as increased energy costs, and our ability or inability to pass on these increases to our customers could have a negative material impact on our financial results. •Our infant formula products require certain key raw ingredients that are derived from raw milk, such as skim milk powder, whey protein powder, and lactose. Our supply of milk-based ingredients may be limited by the ability of individual dairy farmers and cooperatives to provide raw milk in the amount and quality we deem necessary. Raw milk production is influenced by factors beyond our control including seasonal and environmental factors, governmental agricultural and environmental policy, and global demand. We cannot guarantee that there will be sufficient supplies of these key ingredients necessary to produce infant formula.•Our products, and the raw materials used to make those products, generally have limited shelf lives. Our inventory levels are based, in part, on expectations regarding future sales. We may experience build-ups in inventory if sales slow. Any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products, thereby increasing the risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. Cargo thefts and/or diversions, and economically or maliciously motivated product tampering on store shelves may occur, causing unexpected shortages, which may have a material impact on our operations.•We rely on third parties to source many of our raw materials, as well as to manufacture sterile, injectable products that we distribute. We maintain a strict program of verification and product testing throughout the ingredient sourcing and manufacturing process to identify potential counterfeit ingredients, adulterants, and  29Perrigo Company plc - Risk FactorsAdditionally, if we are unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, customers may choose to assess penalties, obtain alternate sources for products, and/or end their relationships with us. Our Specialty Sciences segment generates revenue primarily from royalties on Tysabri®, and any negative developments related to Tysabri® could have a material adverse effect on our business.We occasionally enter into arrangements that entitle us to potential royalties from third parties. Our most significant royalty is the Tysabri® royalty received quarterly from Biogen Idec, which generated $338.4 million of pretax income in fiscal year 2015. See Item 1. Business - Specialty Sciences for more information on our Tysabri® royalty arrangement. Our pretax income could be adversely affected if the royalty streams decline in future periods. Factors that may have an adverse effect on our Tysabri® royalty stream are as follows: •Foreign currency movement, which could have a negative impact on Biogen Inc.'s Tysabri® sales, thereby reducing our royalties;•Companies working to develop new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis that, if successfully developed, would compete with and could gain greater acceptance than Tysabri® and damage our market share;•Any negative developments relating to Tysabri®, such as safety, efficacy, or reimbursement issues, could reduce demand for Tysabri®; and•Adverse regulatory or legislative developments could limit or prohibit the sale of Tysabri®, such as restrictions on the use of Tysabri® or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, which may significantly reduce expected net sales and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues.Additionally, Tysabri® sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings in the label, including the risk of developing Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy ("PML"), a serious brain infection. The risk of developing PML may increase with prior immunosuppressant use, longer treatment duration, or the presence of JC virus antibodies. Increased incidence of PML could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label, or result in market withdrawal. In addition, the result of ongoing or future clinical trials involving Tysabri® or other adverse events reported in association with the use of Tysabri® may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of Tysabri®. We are dependent on the services of certain key executive and scientific employees. The failure to attract and retain such employees may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. In particular, key employees of acquired companies may perceive uncertainty about their future role until strategies regarding the combined business are fully executed, and the recent offers from Mylan may affect the recruitment and retention of our workforce. Key functions for us include executive managers, operational managers, R&D scientists, information technology specialists, financial and legal specialists, regulatory professionals, quality compliance specialists, and sales/marketing personnel. If we are unable to attract or retain key qualified employees, our future operating results may be adversely impacted. Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business.We are dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products, and may be affected by changing consumer preferences. Negative consumer perception may arise from media reports, product liability claims, regulatory investigations, or recalls, regardless of whether they involve us or our products. The mere publication of information asserting defects in products or ingredients, or concerns about our products or the materials used in our products, could discourage consumers from buying our products, regardless of whether such information is scientifically supported.  31Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factors•Negative posts or comments about us, store brands or generic pharmaceuticals, or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation and could adversely affect the price of our securities. In addition, negative posts or comments about our products could result in increased pharmacovigilance reporting requirements, which may give rise to liability if we fail to fully comply with such requirements.Our quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of our management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. Our quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. Some of these factors include the severity, length and timing of the cough/cold/flu and allergy season, and flea and tick season, the timing of new product approvals and introductions by us and our competitors, price competition, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in accounting pronouncements, the magnitude and timing of R&D investments, changes in the levels of inventories maintained by our customers, and the timing of retailer promotional programs. We may not realize the benefits of business acquisitions and divestitures we enter into, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. One of our growth strategies is inorganic growth through the acquisition of products and companies that we expect will benefit the Company. This strategy comes with a number of financial, managerial, and operational risks. We may not realize the benefits of an acquisition because of integration and other challenges, including, but not limited to the following:•The difficulty involved with managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company; •Uncertainties involved in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities of the respective parties;•Unanticipated changes in the business, industry, market or general economic conditions different from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the transaction;•Potential inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies, or return on investment, from an acquisition in the amounts or on the timeframe anticipated;•Substantial demands on our management, operational resources, technology, and financial and internal control systems, which could lead to dissatisfaction and potential loss of key customers, management or employees;•Integration activities may detract attention from our day-to-day business, and there might be substantial costs associated with the transaction process or other material adverse effects as a result of these integration efforts; and•We may undertake financing to complete an acquisition that impacts our liquidity, credit ratings and financial position, thereby making it more difficult, restrictive or expensive to raise future capital.Actual results may differ from pro forma financial information of the combined companies due to changes in the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, changes in assumptions used to form estimates, differences in accounting policies between the companies, and completion of purchase accounting. We have acquired significant assets that could become impaired or subject us to losses and may result in an adverse impact on our results of operations.We have recorded significant intangible assets and goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of previous acquisitions, which could become impaired and lead to material charges in the future. We regularly review our intangible assets and goodwill for impairment. Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are subject to impairment review on an annual basis and whenever impairment indicators are present. We perform an impairment analysis on intangible assets subject to amortization when there is an indication that the carrying amount of any  33Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factorsworthiness of our customers and suppliers, we cannot fully predict to what extent they may be negatively impacted by slowing economic growth. The international scope of our business exposes us to risks associated with foreign exchange rates.We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. However, a significant portion of our net sales, assets, indebtedness and other liabilities, and costs are denominated in foreign currencies. These currencies include among others the euro, Indian rupee, British pound, Canadian dollar, Israel shekel, Australian dollar, and Mexican peso. The addition of Omega, a euro-denominated business that will represent a significant portion of our future net sales and earnings and a substantial portion of our net assets, has significantly increased our exposure to changes in the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate. In addition, approximately 25% of Omega’s sales are in other foreign currencies, with the majority of the product costs for these markets denominated in euros. Our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been and may in the future be adversely affected by movements in exchange rates. In addition, we may also be exposed to credit risks in some of those markets. We may implement currency hedges or take other actions intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If we are not successful in mitigating the effects of changes in exchange rates on our business, any such changes could materially impact our results.We operate in jurisdictions that could be affected by economic and political instability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our operations outside the U.S. could be affected by economic or political instability, embargoes, military hostilities, unstable governments and legal systems, and inter-governmental disputes. We have significant operations in Israel, which has experienced varying degrees of hostility in recent years. Doing business in Israel and certain other countries involves the following risks:•Certain countries and international organizations have refused to do business with Israel or with Israeli companies. We are also precluded from marketing our products to certain countries due to U.S. and Israeli regulatory restrictions. International economic sanctions and boycotts of our products could negatively impact our sales and ability to export our products.•Our facilities in Israel are within a conflict zone. If terrorist acts or military actions were to result in substantial damage to our facilities, our business activities would be disrupted since, with respect to most products, we would need to obtain prior FDA approval for a change in manufacturing site. In addition, our insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. •Certain of our customers or suppliers may decline to travel to Israel, which would force us to make alternative arrangements where necessary. The United States Department of State has at times issued an advisory regarding travel to these countries. As a result of the State Department's advisories, the FDA has at various times curtailed or prohibited its inspectors from traveling to inspect facilities. If these inspectors are unable to inspect our facilities, the FDA could withhold approval for new products intended to be produced at those facilities.Risks Related to Litigation and InsuranceWe are or may become involved in lawsuits and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings.We may become involved in lawsuits arising from various commercial matters, including, but not limited to, competitive issues, contract issues, intellectual property matters, false advertising/unfair competition, taxation matters, workers' compensation, product quality/recall issues, environmental remediation issues, and regulatory issues. Litigation is unpredictable and can be costly. No assurance can be made that litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations in the future. See Item 8. Note 14 for more information.  35Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factorslitigation. Depending upon a complex analysis of a variety of legal and commercial factors, we may, in certain circumstances, elect to market a generic pharmaceutical product while litigation is pending, before any court decision, or while an appeal of a lower court decision is pending, known as an "at risk" launch. The risk involved in an "at risk" launch can be substantial because, if a patent holder ultimately prevails, the remedies available to the patent holder may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the holder, which are often significantly higher than the profits we make from selling the generic version of the product. By electing to proceed in this manner, we could face substantial damages if we receive an adverse final court decision. In the case where a patent holder is able to prove that our infringement was "willful" or "exceptional," under applicable law, the patent holder may be awarded up to three times the amount of its actual damages or we may be required to pay attorneys’ fees.The success of certain of our products depends on the effectiveness of measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights and patents.     If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. •We have been issued patents covering certain of our products, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, including the U.S. Any existing or future patents issued to or licensed by us may not provide us with any significant competitive advantages for our products or may even be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors. In addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or commercializing non-infringing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. •We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees, and consultants. If these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. Furthermore, trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the value of such intellectual property rights. Significant increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of the insurance we maintain could adversely impact our financial condition. To protect the Company against various potential liabilities, we maintain a variety of insurance programs, including property, general and product, and directors' and officers' liability. We may reevaluate and change the types and levels of insurance coverage that we purchase. We are self-insured when insurance is not available or not available at reasonable premiums. Risks associated with insurance plans include:•Insurance costs could increase significantly, or the availability of insurance may decrease, either of which could adversely impact our financial condition; •Deductible or retention amounts could increase or our coverage could be reduced in the future and to the extent losses occur, there could be an adverse effect on our financial results depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage we maintained; •Product liability insurance may not be available to us at an economically reasonable cost (or at all for certain specific products) or our insurance may not adequately cover our liability in connection with product liability claims (see Item 8. Note 14 for further information related to legal proceedings); and•As our business inherently exposes us to claims for injuries allegedly resulting from the use of our products, we may become subject to claims for which we are not adequately insured. Unanticipated payment of a large claim may have a material adverse effect on our business.  37Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factors•Income tax rate changes by governments; •The jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; •Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; •Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; •Adjustments to our interpretation of transfer pricing standards, changes in available tax credits, grants and other incentives; •Changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (such as proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform); •Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; •Expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; and•Repatriation of non-U.S. earnings with respect to which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. The resolution of uncertain tax positions could be unfavorable, which could have an adverse effect on our business.Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that our tax filings are prepared in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties or interest assessments.•The IRS audit of fiscal years 2009 and 2010 had previously concluded with the issuance of a statutory notice of deficiency on August 27, 2014. While we had previously agreed on certain adjustments and made associated payments of $8.0 million inclusive of interest in November 2014, the statutory notice of deficiency asserted various additional positions, including transfer pricing, relative to the same fiscal 2009 and 2010 audit. The statutory notice asserted an incremental tax obligation of approximately $68.9 million, inclusive of interest and penalties. We disagree with the IRS’s positions asserted in the notice of deficiency. In January 2015, we paid this amount, a prerequisite to being able to contest the IRS’s positions in U.S. Federal court, and in June 2015 we filed a request for a refund. In the event that the IRS denies our request for a refund, we intend to contest the IRS’s asserted positions in U.S. Federal court. An unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods.•The IRS is auditing fiscal years 2011 and 2012, and the Israel Tax Authorities are auditing the same period. There are numerous other income tax jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of any audit or related litigation.The government programs in Israel in which we participate and the tax benefits we receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and tax expenses. We receive grants for research and development from the Office of the Chief Scientist in Israel's Ministry of Industry and Trade. To continue to be eligible for these grants, our development projects must be approved by the Chief Scientist on a case-by-case basis. If our development projects are not approved by the Chief Scientist, we will not receive grants to fund these projects, which would increase research and development costs. The receipt of such grants subjects us to certain restrictions and pre-approval requirements, which may be conditioned on additional royalty payments with rights to transfer intellectual property and/or production abroad. We also receive tax benefits, in particular exemptions and reductions, as a result of the Privileged Enterprise status of certain existing operations in Israel. To be eligible for these tax benefits, we must maintain our Privileged Enterprise status by meeting conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets located in Israel and investing additional equity in itself and its Israeli subsidiaries and by meeting projections provided to the regulatory agencies. If we fail to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled, and we could be required to refund the tax benefits already received. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. If such benefits are reduced or eliminated in the future, our results of operations will be adversely impacted.   39Perrigo Company plc - Risk Factorsalways be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. We are incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders.        As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act 2014 (the "Act"). The Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification of directors.•Under Irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. As a result, shareholders of Irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances. •Depending on the circumstances, shareholders may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under Irish law as a result of the acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, Irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax, and capital acquisitions tax.•There is no treaty between Ireland and the U.S. providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. Before a foreign judgment would be deemed enforceable in Ireland, the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction and be for a final and conclusive sum. An Irish court may exercise its right to refuse to recognize and enforce a foreign judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated Irish public policy, if the judgment is in breach of natural justice, or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. •An Irish court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Judgments of U.S. courts of liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws may not be enforced by Irish courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in Ireland.We are subject to Irish takeover rules under which our Board of Directors is not permitted to take any action without Irish Takeover Panel approval that might frustrate an offer for our ordinary shares once we have received an approach that may lead to an offer, or have reason to believe an offer is imminent. Further, it could be more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated transaction than if we were a U.S. company because the shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions differ, and in some cases are greater, under Irish law. We may be limited in our ability to pay dividends in the future.A number of factors may limit our ability to pay dividends in the future, including:•The availability of distributable reserves, as approved by our shareholders and the Irish High Court; •Our ability to receive cash dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries;•Compliance with applicable laws and covenants; and•Our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem relevant. ITEM 1B