ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under “Forward-Looking Statements” above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Risks Relating to Economic, Market and Political Conditions Market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. Our businesses and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and by economic conditions generally. Even under relatively favorable market conditions, our insurance, annuity and investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. These fluctuations and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: •The profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which can fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions.•Market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage or lower transaction volume have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management business, which depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management or transaction volume, and could decrease the value of our strategic investments.•A change in market conditions, such as high inflation and high interest rates, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely affecting sales and persistency of our savings and protection products. Conversely, low inflation and low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability (as further described below). Similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain product lines.•Sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of certain insurance products and withdrawals of assets from investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products.29Table of Contents•A market decline could further result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products, and may cause customers to retain contracts in force in order to benefit from the guarantees, thereby increasing their cost to us. Any increased cost may or may not be offset by the favorable impact of greater persistency from prolonged fee streams. Our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.•Market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business.•Derivative instruments we hold to hedge and manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate and equity risks associated with our products and businesses, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen stresses on liquidity. Market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments, require us to post additional collateral, and also further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. Our derivative-based hedging strategies also rely on the performance of counterparties to such derivatives. These counterparties may fail to perform for various reasons resulting in losses on uncollateralized positions.•We have significant investment and derivative portfolios, including but not limited to corporate and asset-backed securities, foreign government securities (primarily those of the Japanese government), equities and commercial real estate. Economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, benchmark interest rate changes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and declines in value of underlying collateral may impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses. Valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.•Opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns may be limited, including due to the current low interest rate environment, a diminished securitization market or other factors, with possible negative impacts on our overall results. Limited opportunities for attractive investments may lead to holding cash for long periods of time and increased use of derivatives for duration management and other portfolio management purposes. The increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our U.S. GAAP results and our statutory capital.•Regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds, commercial mortgages and alternative asset classes (such as private equity, hedge funds and real estate) are relatively illiquid. If we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize.•Certain features of our products and components of investment strategies depend on active and liquid markets, and, if market liquidity is strained or the capacity of the financial markets to absorb our transactions is inadequate, these products may not perform as intended.•Fluctuations in our operating results as well as realized gains and losses on our investment and derivative portfolios may impact the Company’s tax profile and its ability to optimally utilize tax attributes.•Disruptions in individual market sectors within our investment portfolio could result in significant realized and unrealized losses.  For example, during 2015 the energy sector and extractive enterprises, which are historically cyclical, experienced significant drops in prices, resulting in increased impairments and unrealized losses in these parts of our investment portfolio. If energy and other commodity prices remain low for an extended period, we could experience additional losses. Our investments, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by developments in the global economy, in the U.S. economy (including as a result of actions by the Federal Reserve with respect to monetary policy, and adverse political developments), and in the Japanese economy (including due to the effects of inflation or deflation, interest rate volatility, changes in the Japan sovereign credit rating, and material changes in the value of the Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollar). Global, U.S. or Japanese economic activity and financial markets may in turn be negatively affected by adverse developments or conditions in specific geographical regions. 30Table of ContentsInterest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect our businesses and profitability and require us to increase reserves or statutory capital and subject us to additional collateral posting requirements. Our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: •Some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. When interest rates decline or remain low, as they have in recent years, we have to reinvest in lower-yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income. Since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative, or go further negative. When interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account as quickly with the higher-yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. In addition, rising interest rates could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the Company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned.•Changes in interest rates can also result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds.•When interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”), deferred sales inducements (“DSI”) or value of business acquired (“VOBA”). In addition, increasing interest rates could cause capital strain due to lower solvency margin levels of our Japanese insurance subsidiaries because the carrying value of bonds classified as available-for-sale would decline while the carrying value of liabilities would generally remain unchanged. Also, an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower-yielding investments could reduce our profitability.•Changes in interest rates could subject us to increased collateral posting requirements related to hedging activities associated with some of our products.•Changes in interest rates could require us to contribute capital to subsidiaries to support our annuities business, which occurred during 2015.•Changes in interest rates coupled with greater than expected client withdrawals for certain products can result in increased costs associated with our guarantees.•Changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing.•Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a key rate duration profile that is approximately equal to the key rate duration profile of our estimated liability cash flow profile; however, this estimate of the liability cash flow profile is complex and could turn out to be inaccurate, especially when markets are volatile. In addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching. Due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate, and we may sometimes choose based on economic considerations and other factors not to fully mitigate, the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities.•For certain of our products, a delay between the time we make changes in interest rate and other assumptions used for product pricing and the time we are able to reflect these assumptions in products available-for-sale could negatively impact the long-term profitability of products sold during the intervening period. Recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. A prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in our pricing may result in greater costs associated with certain of our product features which guarantee death benefits or income streams for stated periods or for life; higher costs for derivative instruments used to hedge certain of our product risks; or shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting policy obligations, each of which may require us to record charges to increase reserves. In addition to compressing spreads and reducing net investment income, such an environment may cause policies to remain in force for longer periods than we anticipated in our pricing, potentially resulting in greater claims costs than we expected and resulting in lower overall returns on business in force. Reflecting these impacts in recoverability and loss recognition testing under U.S. GAAP may require us to accelerate the amortization of DAC, DSI or VOBA as noted above, as well as to increase required reserves for future policyholder benefits. In addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and a period of declining or low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves.31Table of Contents Adverse capital market conditions could significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital, including capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. Under such conditions, we may seek additional debt or equity capital but may be unable to obtain it. Adverse capital market conditions could affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest and maturities on our debt and dividends on our capital stock. During times of market stress, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and some of our alternative sources of liquidity, such as commercial paper issuance, securities lending and repurchase arrangements and other forms of borrowings in the capital markets, may be unavailable to us. Disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets may force us to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. We may seek additional debt or equity financing to satisfy our needs; however, the availability of additional financing depends on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the availability of credit, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. We may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. Further, any future equity offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. Disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect our ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. Therefore, we may need to take actions, which may include but are not limited to: (1) access contingent sources of capital and liquidity available through our Capital Protection Framework; (2) further access other external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (3) reduce or eliminate future share repurchases or shareholder dividends; (4) undertake additional capital management activities, including reinsurance transactions; (5) limit or curtail sales of certain products and/or restructure existing products; (6) undertake further asset sales or internal asset transfers; (7) seek temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules; and (8) maintain greater levels of cash balances or for longer periods thereby reducing investment returns. Certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and/or agreement of counterparties which are outside of our control or have economic costs associated with them. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flows, as well as increase the volatility of our results of operations under U.S. GAAP. As a U.S.-based company with significant business operations outside the U.S., particularly in Japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce the U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. We enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge the future income of certain of our international subsidiaries. Further, our Japanese subsidiaries hold U.S. dollar-denominated assets as a way for us to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in the yen exchange rate on our U.S. dollar-equivalent equity in these subsidiaries. We seek to mitigate volatility in the local solvency margins of our Japanese subsidiaries due to holding these U.S. dollar-denominated investments by entering into inter-company currency derivatives. Notwithstanding this strategy, in recent years the value of the yen has declined against the U.S. dollar, and our results have reflected the impact of translating yen-denominated earnings into U.S. dollars at increasingly unfavorable exchange rates. As a result of these unfavorable exchange rate movements, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our yen earnings has declined and will continue to decline in 2016. Conversely, a significant strengthening of the yen could adversely impact the value of our hedges and U.S. dollar-denominated investments held in our Japanese subsidiaries and could result in additional liquidity or capital needs for our International Insurance operations. Further currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition as a result of these derivative positions or due to foreign income or equity investments that are not hedged. We hold investments denominated in foreign currencies in the general account of our domestic insurance subsidiaries. We generally seek to hedge this foreign currency exposure but there is no assurance that we will fully hedge this exposure or that such hedges will be effective. The value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local market, economic and financial conditions. For example, our investments denominated in euro could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in Europe, including due to potential changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the European Monetary Union. 32Table of ContentsRisks Relating to Estimates, Assumptions and Valuations Our profitability may decline if mortality experience, morbidity experience, persistency experience or utilization experience differ significantly from our pricing expectations. We set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates (the likelihood of death or the likelihood of survival), morbidity rates (the likelihood of sickness or disability), and improvement trends in mortality and morbidity of our policyholders. In addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns and technologies for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. In addition, technological and medical advances may affect how consumers investigate and purchase products, and in the future consumers may be informed by confidential genetic information or mortality projections that are not available to us.Pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. Persistency within our annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of poor equity market performance or extended periods of low interest rates as well as other factors. Persistency could be adversely affected generally by developments affecting client perception of us, including perceptions arising from adverse publicity. Many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy’s value. Results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are relatively new to the marketplace. The pricing of certain of our variable annuity products that contain certain living benefit guarantees is also based on assumptions about utilization rates, or the percentage of contracts that will utilize the benefit during the contract duration, including the timing of the first lifetime income withdrawal. Results may vary based on differences between actual and expected benefit utilization. The development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or “viaticals” and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. Significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. Although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause the policies or contracts to lapse. For our long-term care insurance products, our assumptions for reserves for future policy benefits have factored in an estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated and yet-to-be-filed premium increases which will require state approval. Our actual experience obtaining pricing increases could be materially different than what we have assumed, resulting in further policy liability increases which could be material. Many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. Even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all, for regulatory or competitive reasons. If our reserves for future policyholder benefits and expenses are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We establish reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP for future policyholder benefits and expenses. While these reserves generally exceed our best estimate of the liability for future benefits and expenses, if we conclude based on updated assumptions that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and expenses, including unamortized DAC, DSI or VOBA, we would need to accelerate the amortization of these DAC, DSI or VOBA balances and then increase our reserves and incur income statement charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The determination of our best estimate of the liability is based on data and models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including the levels and timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, expenses, interest credits and investment results (including equity market returns), which depend on actual retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency experience. We cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and expenses. If we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and expenses, we may seek to increase premiums where we are able to do so. Updated assumptions may also require us to increase U.S. GAAP reserves for the guarantees in certain long-duration contracts. 33Table of ContentsFor certain of our products, market performance and interest rates (as well as the regulatory environment, as discussed further below) impact the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold, and may have an adverse effect on returns on capital associated with these products. Our ability to efficiently manage capital and economic reserve levels may be impacted, thereby impacting profitability and returns on capital. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC, DSI or VOBA, or recognize impairment in the value of certain investments, or be required to establish a valuation allowance against deferred income tax assets, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. DAC represents the costs that vary with and are directly related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and investment contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. DSI represents amounts that are credited to a policyholder’s account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. VOBA is an intangible asset which represents an adjustment to the stated value of acquired inforce insurance contract liabilities to present them at fair value, determined as of the acquisition date. Management, on an ongoing basis, tests the DAC, DSI and VOBA recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. In addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying DAC, DSI and VOBA for those products for which we amortize DAC, DSI and VOBA in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. Given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in DAC, DSI and/or VOBA that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. Among other things, significant or sustained equity market declines as well as investment losses could result in acceleration of amortization of the DAC, DSI and VOBA related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. As discussed earlier, the amortization of DAC, DSI and VOBA are also sensitive to changes in interest rates. We have operating equity method investments within our International Insurance and Asset Management segments and Corporate and Other operations. Declines in the fair value of these investments may require that we review the remaining carrying value of these investments for potential impairment, and such review could result in impairments and charges to income. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business including the geographic and legal entity source of our income, the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources, and tax planning strategies. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. During periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our investment securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. There may be cases where certain assets in normally active markets with significant observable data become inactive with insufficient observable data due to the current financial environment or market conditions. In addition, the fair value of certain securities may be based on one or more significant unobservable inputs even in ordinary market conditions. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. These values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment or write-down is determined in part by management’s assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security. Management’s conclusions on such assessments are highly judgmental and include assumptions and projections of future cash flows which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. Changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return, life expectancy, health care cost and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, life expectancy of plan participants and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. Changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. 34Table of ContentsCredit and Counterparty Risks An inability to access our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain a committed unsecured revolving credit facility. We rely on this credit facility as a potential source of liquidity which could be critical in enabling us to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. Our ability to borrow under this facility is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements, such as our maintenance of a prescribed minimum level of consolidated net worth calculated in accordance with the agreement. Our failure to satisfy this and other requirements would restrict our access to the facility when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade or potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, require us to post collateral, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties and restrict our access to alternative sources of liquidity. A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements, and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and/or capital. A downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best to “A-” for our domestic life insurance companies would require Prudential Insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.5 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate. Prudential Insurance is a member of the FHLBNY. Membership allows Prudential Insurance access to FHLBNY’s financial services, including the ability to obtain collateralized loans and to issue collateralized funding agreements that can be used as an alternative source of liquidity. Under FHLBNY guidelines, if Prudential Insurance’s financial strength ratings decline below A/A2/A Stable by Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, or S&P, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or Moody’s, and Fitch Ratings Ltd., or Fitch, respectively, and the FHLBNY does not receive written assurances from the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance regarding Prudential Insurance’s solvency, new borrowings from the FHLBNY would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. Although Prudential Insurance’s ratings are currently at or above the required minimum levels, there can be no assurance that the ratings will remain at these levels in the future. We cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. Our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without advance notice by any rating agency. In addition, a sovereign downgrade could result in a downgrade of our subsidiaries operating in that jurisdiction, and ultimately of Prudential Financial and our other subsidiaries. For example, in September 2015, S&P downgraded Japan's sovereign rating to A+ with a 'Stable' outlook citing uncertainties around the strength of economic growth and weak fiscal positions. As a result, S&P subsequently lowered the ratings of a number of institutions in Japan, including our Japanese insurance subsidiaries. It is possible that Japan’s sovereign rating could be subject to further downgrades, which would result in further downgrades of our insurance subsidiaries in Japan. Given the importance of our operations in Japan to our overall results, such downgrades could lead to a downgrade of Prudential Financial and our domestic insurance companies.  Losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities, reinsurers and derivatives counterparties, insolvencies of insurers in jurisdictions where we write business and other factors could adversely affect the value of our investments, the realization of amounts contractually owed to us, result in assessments or additional statutory capital requirements or reduce our profitability or sources of liquidity. Issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, vendors, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers, may default on their obligations to us or be unable to perform service functions that are significant to our business due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. Such defaults could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 35Table of ContentsWe use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products. We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. We also enter into reinsurance arrangements as a risk mitigation strategy for our insurance and annuity products. Amounts that we expect to collect under current and future derivatives or reinsurance contracts are subject to counterparty risk. Our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities or reinsurance arrangements and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties or reinsurers do not pay us. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of derivative counterparties or reinsurers may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the impacted businesses. Under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants.  Our investment portfolio is subject to risks that could diminish the value of our invested assets and the amount of our investment income, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We record unrealized gains or losses on securities classified as “available-for-sale” in other comprehensive income (loss), and in turn recognize gains or losses in earnings when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary. The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities could cause (i) the market price of fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to decline, which could cause us to record gross unrealized losses, (ii) earnings on those securities to decline, which could result in lower earnings, and (iii) ultimately defaults, which could result in a charge to earnings. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of our investments could also have a similar effect. In addition, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to maintain our RBC and SMR levels. Our non-coupon investment portfolio is subject to additional risks. We invest a portion of our investments in hedge funds and private equity funds. The amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. The timing of distributions from such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds’ schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these investments. In addition, the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. In our real estate portfolio, we are subject to declining prices or cash flows as a result of changes in the supply and demand of leasable space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners and other factors. 36Table of ContentsCertain Product Related Risks Guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under U.S. GAAP if our hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective or insufficient. Certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity products, include guarantees of minimum surrender values or income streams for stated periods or for life, which may be in excess of account values. Downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such guarantees, resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. We use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features and external reinsurance, to mitigate these risks in part and we may periodically change our strategies over time. These strategies may, however, not be fully effective. In addition, we may be unable or may choose not to fully hedge these risks. Hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. Hedging instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions or other reasons. We sometimes choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under U.S. GAAP. Changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in our results of operations and financial position under U.S. GAAP and the statutory capital levels of our insurance subsidiaries. Estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure in respect of our guarantees. Further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. The above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. In addition, the NAIC has outlined a framework for changing the laws around the use of captive reinsurance companies to reinsure variable annuities, which may ultimately impact how we hedge our variable annuity risks. See “Regulatory and Legal Risks—Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition” below.   We may not be able to mitigate the reserve strain associated with Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX, potentially resulting in a negative impact on our capital position or in a need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of term or universal life products. The states of domicile of our domestic insurance subsidiaries have in place a regulation entitled “Valuation of Life Insurance Policies,” commonly known as “Regulation XXX,” and a supporting Guideline entitled “The Application of the Valuation of Life Insurance Policies,” commonly known as “Guideline AXXX.” The Regulation and supporting Guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees at a level that exceeds what our actuarial assumptions for this business would otherwise require. We have typically financed the portion of the statutory reserves for this business that we consider to be non-economic through the use of captive reinsurance companies. As we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have additional financing needs for these reserves. However, if we are unsuccessful in obtaining additional financing as a result of market conditions, regulatory changes or otherwise, this could require us to increase prices and or/reduce our sales of term or universal life products and/or have a negative impact on our capital position. In addition, we are subject to a new regulation that affects the types of assets we can use in captive reinsurance companies to back the reserves we hold for term and universal life products. See “Regulatory and Legal Risks—Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition” below.   We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels. Although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. For example, a significant amount of our sales in Japan through banks is derived through a single major Japanese bank and a significant portion of our sales in Japan through Life Consultants is derived through a single association relationship. We periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. We are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. An increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. Consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us.37Table of Contents When our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. If our products are distributed by such firms in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business. Regulatory and Legal Risks Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. The purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders or debt holders. Many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. The financial market dislocations we have experienced have produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the U.S. and internationally. Prudential Financial, the holding company for all of our operations, is subject to supervision by the FRB as a “Designated Financial Company” pursuant to Dodd-Frank. As a Designated Financial Company, Prudential Financial is and will be subject to substantial additional regulation as discussed further herein. In addition, the FSB identified Prudential Financial as a G-SII. As a result, U.S. financial regulators are expected to enhance their regulation of Prudential Financial to achieve a number of regulatory objectives. This additional regulation has increased and is likely to continue to increase our operational, compliance and risk management costs, and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, including potentially increasing our capital levels and requiring us to hold additional liquid assets and therefore reducing our return on capital.  In 2015 NJDOBI became Prudential Financial’s group-wide supervisor pursuant to legislation adopted by the state. We cannot predict what additional requirements or costs may result from NJDOBI’s assertion of group-wide supervisor status with respect to Prudential Financial.  See “Business—Regulation—Insurance Holding Company Regulation.” As a result of a February 2014 agreement with the NY DFS regarding our reserving methodologies for certain variable annuity and life insurance products, certain of our New York licensed insurance subsidiaries hold additional statutory reserves on a New York basis, which reduces their New York statutory surplus. While these subsidiaries held sufficient statutory surplus on a New York basis as of December 31, 2015 to satisfy these additional reserves, the agreed reserve methodologies may require us to hold additional New York statutory reserves in the future. If we are required to establish material additional reserves on a New York statutory accounting basis or post material amounts of additional collateral with respect to annuity or insurance products, our ability to deploy capital held within our U.S. domestic insurance subsidiaries for other purposes could be affected.  The NAIC and state insurance regulators have increased their focus on life insurers’ use of captive reinsurance companies. In December 2014, the NAIC adopted AG 48 that applies to certain life insurance captive reinsurance transactions. In addition, in November 2015, the NAIC adopted the Variable Annuities Framework for Change, which outlines the NAIC’s commitment to change in concept the statutory framework to address concerns that have led to the development and utilization of captive reinsurance transactions for variable annuity business in order to create more consistency across regulators and remove incentives for insurers to cede risk to captives. See Business—Regulation—Insurance Operations—State Insurance Regulation—Captive Reinsurance Companies” for information on AG 48, the Variable Annuities Framework for Change and our use of captive reinsurance companies. For business ceded to captive reinsurance companies, AG 48 will require us to hold cash or rated securities in greater amounts than we previously held to support economic reserves for certain of our term and universal life policies. While we continue to work with regulators and industry participants on potential long-term solutions, AG 48 may ultimately adversely affect our ability to write certain products and efficiently manage their associated risks and we may need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of certain products, modify certain products or find alternate financing sources, any of which could adversely affect our competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, we cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from the Variable Annuities Framework for Change, and if applicable insurance laws are changed in a way that impairs our ability to write variable annuities and efficiently manage their associated risks, we may need to increase prices or modify our products, which could also adversely affect our competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations. 38Table of ContentsOther NAIC or state insurance regulator actions, such as the adoption of principles-based reserving or changes to RBC calculations, may adversely impact our business from time to time. The failure of Prudential Insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries to meet applicable RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject those subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action by state insurance regulators. The failure to maintain the RBC ratios of Prudential Insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries at desired levels could also adversely impact our competitive position, including as a result of downgrades to our financial strength ratings. Our international insurance companies are subject to conceptually similar measures of capital adequacy, including solvency margin ratios for our Japanese insurance companies, and we face similar risks as those described for our domestic companies in the event that we are unable to maintain these measures at adequate levels. Further, adverse financial performance in the Closed Block, including adverse investment performance, may adversely affect Prudential Insurance’s RBC ratios in the short term, although dividends to Closed Block policyholders may be subsequently adjusted to reflect such performance. In some cases, our reserves include assumptions about the availability of government benefits that are controlled by legislative or regulatory processes. To the extent the outcomes of these processes differ from our expectations, we may experience adverse effects on our financial condition.  For example, since Social Security Disability Insurance ("SSDI") benefits are an offset to the benefits payable under group disability policies, any decrease in SSDI benefits, or changes in eligibility, could have a significant impact on the group disability market, including reserve impacts and increases in the cost of benefits.Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. See “Business—Regulation” for discussion of regulation of our businesses. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. In 2013, the Council made a final determination that Prudential Financial should be subject to stricter prudential regulatory standards and supervision by the FRB as a “Designated Financial Company” pursuant to Dodd-Frank, thereby subjecting us to substantial federal regulation, much of it pursuant to regulations not yet promulgated. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process that is underway and expected to continue over the next few years. We cannot predict the timing or requirements of the regulations not yet adopted under Dodd-Frank or how such regulations will impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or competitive position. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether such regulations will make it advisable or how regulators will advise or require us to hold or raise additional capital or liquid assets, potentially affecting capital deployment activities, including buying back shares or paying dividends. Key aspects of Dodd-Frank’s impact on us include: •As a Designated Financial Company, Prudential Financial is now subject to supervision and examination by the FRB and to stricter prudential standards, which include or will include requirements and limitations (many of which are the subject of ongoing rule-making) relating to capital, leverage, liquidity, stress-testing, overall risk management, credit exposure reporting, early remediation, managing interlocks, credit concentration, and resolution and recovery planning. If the FRB and the FDIC jointly determine that our resolution plan is deficient, they may impose more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on our growth, activities, or operations. Any continuing failure to adequately remedy the deficiencies could result in the FRB and the FDIC jointly, in consultation with the Council, ordering divestiture of certain operations or assets. In addition, failure to meet defined measures of financial condition could result in substantial restrictions on our business and capital distributions. We will also be subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the FRB which could cause us to alter our business practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial strength. We cannot predict the requirements of the regulations not yet adopted or how the FRB will apply these prudential standards to us. As a Designated Financial Company, Prudential Financial must also seek pre-approval from the FRB for acquisition of certain companies engaged in financial activities.•As a Designated Financial Company, we could also be subject to additional capital requirements for, and other restrictions on, proprietary trading and sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge, private equity and other covered funds.•The Council could recommend new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices in which we and other financial services companies engage. We cannot predict whether any such recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.39Table of Contents•Dodd-Frank created a new framework for regulation of the OTC derivatives markets which could impact various activities of PGF, Prudential Financial and our insurance subsidiaries, which use derivatives for various purposes (including hedging interest rate, foreign currency and equity market exposures). While many of the regulations required to be promulgated under Dodd-Frank or internationally with respect to derivatives markets have been adopted by the applicable regulatory agencies, the regulations that remain to be adopted or that have not been fully implemented could substantially increase the cost of hedging and related operations, affect the profitability of our products or their attractiveness to our clients or cause us to alter our hedging strategy or implementation thereof or increase and/or change the composition of the risks we do not hedge. In particular, we continue to monitor increased capital requirements for derivatives transactions that may be imposed on banks that are our counterparties.•Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company such as Prudential Financial may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code, administered by the FDIC as receiver, upon a determination that the Company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability, and our U.S. insurance subsidiaries would be subject to rehabilitation and liquidation proceedings under state insurance law. We cannot predict how creditors of Prudential Financial or its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, including the holders of Prudential Financial debt, will evaluate this potential or whether it will impact our financing or hedging costs. See “Business—Regulation” for further discussion of the impact of Dodd-Frank on our businesses. Changes in the laws and regulations relating to retirement products and services, including proposed regulations released by the DOL in 2015, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.In April 2015, the DOL released a proposed regulation, accompanied by new class exemptions and proposed amendments to long-standing exemptions from the prohibited transaction provisions under ERISA, and it is expected that the DOL will  promulgate final rules in 2016. If enacted, the rules will redefine who would be considered a “fiduciary” for purposes of transactions with plans, plan participants and IRAs. We cannot predict the exact nature and scope of any new final rules or their impact on our business; however, the new rules may effectively impose limits on interactions with existing and prospective customers in our  Individual Life (including Prudential Advisors), Individual Annuities, Asset Management, Retirement and Group Insurance businesses. In addition, we may experience increased costs if we need to adapt our technology and operational infrastructure to meet disclosure and compliance requirements under the proposed rules. Our compliance with the proposed rules could lead to a loss of customers and revenues, and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If the proposed rules are adopted in their current form, significant potential impacts on certain of our businesses would include the following.•Prudential Advisors: We expect compliance with a new “best interest contract exemption” may be required for IRA and small plan retirement accounts for a wide range of products, representing a significant part of Prudential Advisors’ total business. This would impose compliance and contract requirements and would give customers a private right of action for breach of contract if an advisor provides advice that is not in the customer’s best interest. We expect this would result in additional costs, oversight and litigation risks, as well as changes to compensation and benefit structures and may require us to review product offerings to ensure a sufficient variety of non-proprietary options.•Annuities: Certain distributors may restrict the sale of annuities, and may remove themselves as broker of record, transitioning servicing and compliance back to Prudential. In addition, we may need to alter our product design to comply with the new rules. We may also need to monitor wholesaling and other sales support activities so as not to be considered fiduciary advice, which would subject those activities to greater liability exposure.•Asset Management: Distribution partners may have specific product and pricing needs, and may request tailoring product offerings or pricing to support compliance with a new standard. This business may also require monitoring of wholesaling and other sales support activities so that these activities would not be considered fiduciary advice, which would subject those activities to greater liability exposure.•Retirement: Asset allocation tools included in our product offerings, when mapped to specific investments, may fall within the definition of acting as a fiduciary and could need to be altered or discontinued in order to minimize potential liability. IRA offerings and asset retention and consolidation activities may need to comply with a new best interest contract exemption, referred to above. In addition, changes to the relationship with sponsors and intermediaries for small business plans (fewer than 100 lives) would be required to avoid assuming a fiduciary role and the associated potential liability.40Table of ContentsIn addition to the DOL rulemaking described above, lawmakers and regulatory authorities from time to time enact legislative and regulatory changes that could decrease the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. Over time, these changes could hinder our sales of retirement products and services. We cannot predict with any certainty the effect these legislative and regulatory changes may have on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  See “Business—Regulation—Investment and Retirement Products and Asset Management Operations” for further discussion of regulation of our businesses.Foreign governmental actions could subject us to substantial additional regulation. In addition to the adoption of Dodd-Frank in the United States, the FSB has issued a series of proposals intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. The FSB identified Prudential Financial as a G-SII. The framework policy measures for G-SIIs published by the IAIS include enhanced group-wide supervision, enhanced capital standards, enhanced liquidity planning and management, and development of a risk reduction plan and recovery and resolution plans. The IAIS has released a basic capital requirement (“BCR”) and higher loss absorbency (“HLA”) standard that have been approved by the FSB and G20 with implementation in 2019. The IAIS is also developing ComFrame for the supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups that seeks to promote effective and globally-consistent supervision of the insurance industry and contribute to global financial stability through uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, enterprise risk management and other control functions, group-wide supervision and group capital adequacy. ComFrame is also scheduled to be adopted by the IAIS in 2019. Policy measures applicable to G-SIIs would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction. We cannot predict the impact of BCR, HLA or ComFrame on our business, or the outcome of our identification as a G-SII on the regulation of our businesses. The lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun enacting or considering legislative and regulatory changes consistent with G20 and FSB recommendations, including laws and proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holding companies set forth by the FSA in Japan. At this time, we cannot predict what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens continued international legislative and regulatory change will impose on us. See “Business—Regulation—International and Global Regulatory Initiatives” and “—Regulation of our International Businesses” for further discussion of the impact of foreign regulation on our business.Adverse market, economic and financial conditions in Europe have given rise to a perceived risk of defaults on the government securities of certain European countries and potentially by financial institutions with significant direct or indirect exposure to such government securities. Further regulatory initiatives may develop in response to these conditions and related political and economic events such as possible changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the European Monetary Union. Changes in accounting requirements could negatively impact our reported results of operations and our reported financial position. Accounting standards are continuously evolving and subject to change. For example, the FASB has an ongoing project to revise accounting standards for insurance contracts. While the final resolution of changes to U.S. GAAP pursuant to this project is unclear, changes to the manner in which we account for insurance products, or other changes in accounting standards, could have a material effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. Further, changes in accounting standards may impose special demands on issuers in areas such as corporate governance, internal controls and disclosure, and may result in substantial conversion costs to implement. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions that impact our tax profile could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and also increase our tax costs.  There is uncertainty regarding U.S. taxes both for individuals and corporations. Discussions in Washington continue concerning the need to reform the tax code, primarily by lowering tax rates and broadening the base, including by reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures. Broadening the tax base or reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures could make our products less attractive to customers. It is unclear whether or when Congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the Company and its products. 41Table of ContentsHowever, even in the absence of overall tax reform, given the large federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, Congress and state and local governments could raise revenue by enacting legislation to increase the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. This can be accomplished either by raising rates or otherwise changing the tax rules that affect the Company and its products. Congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers. Current U.S. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. While higher tax rates increase the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance, making our products more attractive to consumers, legislation that reduces or eliminates deferral could have a negative effect on our products. Congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay, thereby reducing earnings. For example, changes in the law relating to tax reserving methodologies for term life or universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees or other products could result in higher current taxes. The Obama Administration’s Revenue Proposals include proposals which, if enacted, would affect the taxation of life insurance companies and certain life insurance products. In particular, the proposals would affect the treatment of corporate-owned life insurance policies (“COLI”) by limiting the availability of certain interest deductions for companies that purchase those policies. The proposals would also change the method used to determine the amount of dividend income received by a life insurance company on assets held in separate accounts used to support products, including variable life insurance and variable annuity contracts, that is eligible for the DRD. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a major reason for the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. If proposals of this type were enacted, the Company’s sale of COLI, variable annuities, and variable life insurance products could be adversely affected and the Company’s actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. Furthermore, the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2017 Revenue Proposals also include items that would change the way U.S. multinational corporations are taxed, as well as a liability-based fee on financial services companies, including insurance companies, with consolidated assets in excess of $50 billion. If these types of provisions are enacted into law, they could increase the amount of taxes the Company pays. The products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions and credits for the Company. Changes in either the U.S. or foreign tax laws may negatively impact the deductions and credits available to the Company, including the ability of the Company to claim foreign tax credits with respect to taxes withheld on separate account products. These changes would increase the Company’s actual tax expense and reduce its consolidated net income. The level of profitability of certain of our products is significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which is taken into consideration when pricing products and is a component of our capital management strategies. Accordingly, changes in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products could impact product pricing and returns or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive to our businesses. In addition, the adoption of a principles-based approach for statutory reserves may lead to significant changes to the way tax reserves are determined and thus reduce future tax deductions. For a discussion of the impact of the tax laws outside the U.S., see “—Other Risks—We have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability” below. 42Table of ContentsOur ability to meet obligations, pay shareholder dividends, and to engage in share repurchases may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Prudential Financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to Prudential Financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. These sources of funds may be complemented by Prudential Financial’s access, if available, to the capital markets and bank facilities. As described under “Business—Regulation” and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to Prudential Financial. In addition, our management of our subsidiaries to have capitalization consistent with their ratings objectives itself may constrain their payment of dividends. Finally, Dodd-Frank and emerging international capital and other prudential standards may ultimately result in additional restrictions on transfers of funds to Prudential Financial, or by Prudential Financial to its shareholders, either to satisfy enhanced prudential standards, due to inadequate stress-test performance, or otherwise. These restrictions may limit or prevent our subsidiaries from making dividend or other payments to Prudential Financial, or limit or prevent Prudential Financial from making payments to third-parties, in an amount sufficient to fund Prudential Financial’s obligations, shareholder dividends and share repurchases. From time to time, the NAIC and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. We are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status.  Some of these actions relate to aspects of the Company’s businesses and operations that are specific to us, while others are typical of the businesses in which we operate.  We face or may face lawsuits alleging, among other things, issues relating to unclaimed property procedures, the settlement of death benefit claims, breaches of fiduciary duties, violations of securities laws and employment matters.  Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. In certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages.In addition, many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. These actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  Further, the financial services industry in general has faced increased regulatory scrutiny from governmental and self-regulatory bodies conducting inquiries and investigations into various products and business practices. This regulatory scrutiny has in some cases led to proposed or final legislation and regulation that could significantly affect the financial services industry, and may ultimately result in an increased risk of regulatory penalties, settlements and litigation.Legal liability or adverse publicity in respect of current or future legal or regulatory actions, whether or not involving us, could have an adverse effect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects.  As a participant in the insurance and financial services industries, we may continue to experience a high level of legal and regulatory actions related to our businesses and operations.Material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under “Commitments and Guarantees, Contingent Liabilities and Litigation and Regulatory Matters” in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. Our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters. In light of the unpredictability of the Company’s litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights with employees and third parties and on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. This would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. The inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. 43Table of ContentsWe may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement; (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights; or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third-parties or implement a costly work around. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Operational Risks Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business. We depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. Further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. If these parties do not perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. These risks are heightened by our offering of increasingly complex products, such as those that feature automatic rebalancing or re-allocation strategies, and by our employment of complex investment, trading and hedging programs. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers, or in the misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information. Many financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks and other means. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyber attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third-parties outside of Prudential such as persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments, as well as external service providers. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of Prudential’s systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. In addition, while we have certain standards for all vendors that provide us services, our vendors, and in turn, their own service providers, may become subject to a security breach, including as a result of their failure to perform in accordance with contractual arrangements. Security breaches or other technological failures may also result in regulatory inquiries, regulatory proceedings, regulatory and litigation costs, and reputational damage. We may incur reimbursement and other expenses, including the costs of litigation and litigation settlements and additional compliance costs. We may also incur considerable expenses in enhancing and upgrading computer systems and systems security following such a failure. Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and service our customers, harm our reputation, result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, subject us to substantial regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues or financial loss to our customers and otherwise adversely affect our business. 44Table of ContentsWe face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in executing, integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. We face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals or other results materially different from those we anticipate. We may also experience difficulties in executing previously-announced transactions, and integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. We have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. These risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Other Risks Our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. We have developed an enterprise-wide risk management framework to mitigate risk and loss to the Company, and we maintain policies, procedures and controls intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the risks to which the Company is exposed. There are, however, inherent limitations to risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company may suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. As our businesses change and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management framework may not evolve at the same pace as those changes. As a result, there is a risk that new products or new business strategies may present risks that are not appropriately identified, monitored or managed. In times of market stress, unanticipated market movements or unanticipated claims experience resulting from adverse mortality or morbidity, the effectiveness of our risk management strategies may be limited, resulting in losses to the Company. In addition, under difficult or less liquid market conditions, our risk management strategies may not be effective because other market participants may be using the same or similar strategies to manage risk under the same challenging market conditions. In such circumstances, it may be difficult or more expensive for us to mitigate risk due to the activity of such other market participants. Many of our risk management strategies or techniques are based upon historical customer and market behavior and all such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management’s subjective judgment. We cannot provide assurance that our risk management framework, including the underlying assumptions or strategies, will be accurate and effective. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and controls may not be fully effective. Models are utilized by our businesses and corporate areas primarily to project future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. These models may not operate properly and may rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. As our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. Past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. There can be no assurance that controls and procedures that we employ, which are designed to monitor associates’ business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, will be effective. We review our compensation policies and practices as part of our overall risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies and practices could inadvertently incentivize excessive or inappropriate risk taking. If our associates take excessive or inappropriate risks, those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In our investments in which we hold a minority interest, or that are managed by third parties, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may subject us to additional operational, compliance and legal risks and prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. In those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a “call” option). 45Table of ContentsThe occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. The occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our operations, results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: •Catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates.•A man-made or natural disaster, such as an earthquake in Japan, could result in disruptions in our operations, losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets.•A terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the U. S. or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular.•Pandemic disease could have a severe adverse effect on Prudential Financial’s business. The potential impact of such a pandemic on Prudential Financial’s results of operations and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: the effectiveness of vaccines and the rate of contagion; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured population; the collectability of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on our asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. The above risks are more pronounced in respect of geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, where we have concentrations of customers, including under group and individual life insurance, concentrations of employees or significant operations, and in respect of countries and regions in which we operate subject to a greater potential threat of military action or conflict. There can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. Finally, climate change may increase the frequency and severity of weather related disasters. In addition, climate change regulation may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold and other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. We cannot predict the long-term impacts on us from climate change or related regulation. We have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. A substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations outside the U.S., primarily Japan and Korea. Some of these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which they are located. Some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk, as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers’ associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. If our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country.Many of our insurance products sold in international markets, including Japan, provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates. Actual returns on the underlying investments may not necessarily support the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative. This negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products, and will likely be exacerbated in prolonged periods of low interest rates.  Our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. Foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. Such changes could negatively impact sales of our products or reduce our profits. Our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. These regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, and regulatory capital. 46Table of ContentsIntense competition, including the impact of government sponsored programs and other actions on us and our competitors, could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. In each of our businesses we face intense competition from insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. We compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and credit and financial strength ratings. A decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. Many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength or credit ratings than we do. The proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. In addition, technological advances or other changes in the marketplace may present opportunities for new or smaller competitors without established products or distribution channels to meet consumers’ increased expectations more efficiently than us.In certain international markets in which we operate, we face competition from government owned entities that benefit from pricing or other competitive advantages. The competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by government sponsored programs and longer term fiscal policies. Competitors that receive governmental financing or other assistance or subsidies, including governmental guarantees of their obligations, may have or obtain pricing or other competitive advantages. Competitors that are not subject to the same regulatory framework may also have a pricing advantage, including as a result of lower capital requirements.  Competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel,  agents within Prudential Advisors, Life Planners, Life Consultants and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. We devote significant efforts to talent management and development and are subject to the risk that executive, management and other personnel will be hired or recruited by competitors. Competition for desirable non-affiliated distribution channels is also intense. The loss of key personnel or non-affiliated distribution channels could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability.At an enterprise level, Prudential Financial is one of three Designated Financial Companies in the insurance industry. This additional regulation has resulted in increased operational, compliance and risk management costs, and may result in further impacts if we are ultimately required to increase our capital levels or hold additional liquid assets relative to our competitors. Regulatory requirements could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. Insurance regulatory authorities in the various jurisdictions in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including New Jersey and Japan, must approve any change of control of Prudential Financial or the insurance companies organized under their laws. Federal and state banking laws also generally require regulatory approval for a change in control of Prudential Financial or PB&T. The U.S. federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. The New Jersey Business Corporation Act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. Dodd-Frank concentration limits also impose restrictions on the acquisition of Designated Financial Companies where the resulting entity’s total liabilities exceed 10% of total U.S. financial company liabilities, which may prohibit certain companies from acquiring Prudential Financial. In addition, the FRB must approve any acquisition by a Designated Financial Company of more than 5% of the voting stock of a company engaged in financial activities with $10 billion or more in assets, such as Prudential Financial. These regulatory and other restrictions may delay or prevent a potential merger or sale of Prudential Financial, even if the Board of Directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold.ITEM 1B