Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) including:
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			general risks associated with the ownership and operation of real estate, including changes in demand, risks related to development of self-storage facilities, potential liability for environmental contamination, natural disasters and adverse changes in laws and regulations governing property tax, real estate and zoning; 
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies in the markets in which we operate, including risks related to current economic conditions and the economic health of our customers;  
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			the impact of competition from new and existing self-storage and commercial facilities and other storage alternatives; 
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			difficulties in our ability to successfully evaluate, finance, integrate into our existing operations, and manage acquired and developed properties;
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			risks associated with international operations including, but not limited to, unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, refinancing risk of affiliate loans from us, and local and global economic uncertainty that could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows; 
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			risks related to our participation in joint ventures;
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			the impact of the regulatory environment as well as national, state, and local laws and regulations including, without limitation, those governing environmental, taxes and tenant insurance matters and real estate investment trusts (“REITs”), and risks related to the impact of new laws and regulations; 
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			risk of increased tax expense associated either with a possible failure by us to qualify as a REIT, or with challenges to intercompany transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries;
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			changes in federal or state tax laws related to the taxation of REIT’s, which could impact our status as a REIT;
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			disruptions or shutdowns of our automated processes, systems and the Internet or breaches of our data security;
		 

		

			4

		

 

		

			 

		


		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			risks associated with the self-insurance of certain business risks, including property and casualty insurance, employee health insurance and workers compensation liabilities; 
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			difficulties in raising capital at a reasonable cost; and 
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			economic uncertainty due to the impact of terrorism or war. 
		
			These forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements.  All of our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in their entirety by this statement.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of these forward looking statements, except as required by law.  Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not rely on any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, as predictions of future events nor guarantees of future performance.  
		
		
			General
		
		
			Public Storage was organized in 1980.  Effective June 1, 2007, we reorganized Public Storage, Inc. into Public Storage (referred to herein as “the Company”, “the Trust”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”).  
		
		
			At December 31, 2013, our principal business activities are as follows:
		
		
			
				 (i)
			
		
			
			Domestic Self-Storage: We acquire, develop, own, and operate self-storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business use.  We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in the United States (“U.S.”).  We have direct and indirect equity interests in 2,200 self-storage facilities (141 million net rentable square feet of space) located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the “Public Storage” brand name.  
		
			
				 (ii)
			
		
			
			European Self-Storage:  We have a 49% equity interest in Shurgard Europe, with an institutional investor owning the remaining 51% interest.  Shurgard Europe owns 187 self-storage facilities (10 million net rentable square feet of space) located in seven countries in Western Europe which operate under the “Shurgard” brand name and manages one facility we own in the United Kingdom.  We believe Shurgard Europe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Western Europe.  
		
			
				 (iii)
			
		
			
			Commercial:  We have a 42% equity interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”), a publicly held REIT which owns and operates 29.7 million net rentable square feet of commercial space.  We also wholly-own 1.4 million net rentable square feet of commercial space, substantially all of which is managed by PSB.  
		
			In addition, we  reinsure policies against losses to goods stored by customers in our self-storage facilities, sell merchandise at our self-storage facilities and manage self-storage facilities owned by third-party owners.    
		
		
			For all periods presented herein, we have elected to be treated as a REIT, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code.  As a REIT, we do not incur federal income tax on our REIT taxable income (generally, net rents and gains from real property, dividends, and interest) that is fully distributed each year (for this purpose, certain distributions paid in a subsequent year may be considered), and if we meet certain organizational and operational rules.  We believe we met these requirements in all periods presented herein, and we expect to continue to elect and qualify as a REIT.    
		
		

		
		 

		

			5

		

 

		

			 

		


		We report annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial statements certified by our independent registered public accountants.  We have also reported quarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited financial statements with such filings.  We expect to continue such reporting. 
		
		
			On our website, www.publicstorage.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.
		
		
			Competition
		
		
			We believe that storage customers generally store their goods within a five mile radius of their home or business.  Most of our facilities compete with other nearby self-storage facilities that use the same marketing channels and offer the same service as us.  Generally, our competitors attract customers using the same marketing channels we use, including Internet advertising, signage, and banners.  As a result, competition is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses of our facilities. 
		
		
			While competition is significant, the self-storage industry remains fragmented in the U.S.  We believe that we own approximately 6% of the aggregate self-storage square footage in the U.S., and that collectively the five largest self-storage operators in the U.S. own approximately 12%, with all other self-storage space owned by numerous private regional and local operators.  We believe this market fragmentation enhances the advantage of our brand name, as well as the economies of scale we enjoy with approximately 71% of our 2013 same-store revenues in the 20 Metropolitan Statistical Areas (“MSA’s”, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau) with the highest population levels.    
		
		
			Such fragmentation also provides opportunities for us to acquire additional facilities; however, we compete with a wide variety of institutions and other investors who also view self-storage facilities as attractive investments.  The amount of capital available for real estate investments greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments.  
		
		
			Business Attributes
		
		
			We believe that we possess several primary business attributes that permit us to compete effectively:
		
		
			Centralized information networks:  Our centralized reporting and information network enables us to identify changing market conditions and operating trends as well as analyze customer data and quickly change each of our individual properties’ pricing and promotions  on an automated basis.  
		
		
			Convenient shopping experience:  Customers can conveniently shop the space available at our facilities, reviewing attributes such as facility location, size, amenities such as climate-control, as well as pricing, and learn about ancillary businesses through the following marketing channels:  
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Our Website:  The online marketing channel continues to grow in prominence, with approximately 55% of our move-ins in 2013 sourced through our website, as compared to 36% in 2010.  In addition, we believe that many of our customers who directly call our call center, or who move-in to a facility on a walk-in basis, have already reviewed our pricing and space availability through our website.  We invest extensively in advertising on the Internet to attract potential customers, primarily through the use of search engines, and we regularly update and improve our website to enhance its productivity.   
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Our Call Center:  Our call center is staffed by skilled sales specialists.  Customers reach our call center by calling our advertised toll-free telephone referral number, (800) 44-
		
		 

		

			6

		

 

		

			 

		


		STORE, or telephone numbers provided on the Internet.  We believe giving customers the option to interact with a call center agent, despite the higher marginal cost relative to an internet reservation, enhances our ability to close sales with potential storage customers.        
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Our Properties:  Customers can also shop at any one of our facilities.  Property managers access the same information that is available on our website and to our call center agents, and can inform the customer of storage alternatives at that site or our other nearby storage facilities.  Property managers are extensively trained to maximize the conversion of such “walk in” shoppers into customers.  
		
			Economies of scale: We are the largest provider of self-storage space in the U.S.  As of December 31, 2013, we operated 2,200 self-storage facilities with over one million self-storage spaces.  These facilities are generally located in major markets within 38 states in the U.S.  The size and scope of our operations have enabled us to achieve high operating margins and a low level of administrative costs relative to revenues through the centralization of many functions, such as facility maintenance, employee compensation and benefits programs, revenue management, as well as the development and documentation of standardized operating procedures.  We also believe that our major market concentration provides managerial efficiencies stemming from having a large number of facilities in close proximity to each other.  
		
		
			We believe our market share and concentration in major metropolitan centers makes various promotional and media programs more cost-beneficial for us than for our competitors.  As noted above, approximately 71% of our same-store revenues for 2013 were in the 20 MSA’s with the highest population levels.  Our large market share and well-recognized brand name increases the likelihood that our facilities will appear prominently in unpaid search results for “self-storage” on major online search engines, and enhances the efficiency of our bidding for paid multiple-keyword advertising.  We can use television advertising in many markets, while most of our competitors cannot do so cost-effectively.  
		
		
			Brand name recognition: We believe that the “Public Storage” brand name is the most recognized and established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S, due to our national reach in major markets in 38 states, and our highly visible facilities, with their distinct orange colored doors and signage.  We believe the “Public Storage” name is one of the most frequently used search terms used by customers using Internet search engines for self-storage.  We believe that the “Shurgard” brand, used by Shurgard Europe, is a similarly established and valuable brand in Europe.  We believe that the awareness of our brand name results in a high percentage of potential storage customers considering our facilities, relative to other operators.  
		
		
			Growth and Investment Strategies
		
		
			Our growth strategies consist of: (i) improving the operating performance of our existing self-storage facilities, (ii) acquiring more facilities, (iii) developing new self-storage space, (iv) participating in the growth of commercial facilities, primarily through our investment in PSB, and (v) participating in the growth of Shurgard Europe.  While our long-term strategy includes each of these elements, in the short run the level of growth in our asset base in any period is dependent upon the cost and availability of capital, as well as the relative attractiveness of investment alternatives.  
		
		
			Improve the operating performance of existing facilities: We seek to increase the net cash flow of our existing self-storage facilities by a) regularly analyzing our call volume, reservation activity, Internet activity, move-in/move-out rates and other market supply and demand factors and responding by adjusting our marketing activities and rental rates, b) attempting to maximize revenues through evaluating the appropriate balance between occupancy, rental rates, and promotional discounting and c) controlling operating costs.  We believe that our property management personnel, systems, our convenient shopping options for the customer, and our media and Internet advertising programs will continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals.  
		
		

		
		 

		

			7

		

 

		

			 

		


		Acquire properties owned or operated by others in the U.S.: We seek to capitalize on the fragmentation of the self-storage business through acquiring attractively priced, well-located existing self-storage facilities.  We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities.  Data on the rental rates and occupancy levels of our existing facilities provide us an advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities.  The level of third-party acquisition opportunities available depends upon many factors, such as the motivation of potential sellers to liquidate their investments, as well as the financing available to self-storage owners.  We decide whether to pursue acquisition opportunities based upon many factors including our opinion as to the potential for future growth, the quality of construction and location, the cash flow we expect from the facility when operated on our platform and our yield expectations.   
		
		
			During 2013, we acquired 121 facilities from third parties for approximately $1.2 billion, primarily through large portfolio acquisitions.  This volume was higher than in the preceding six years combined.  We will continue to seek to acquire properties in 2014.  While there were more sellers of self-storage facilities in 2013 due at least in part, we believe, to higher values and robust cash flows of self-storage facilities, it is uncertain as to the level of third party acquisitions we will complete in 2014.
		
		
			Develop new self-storage space:  The development of new self-storage locations and the expansion of existing self-storage facilities has been an important source of growth.   Since the beginning of 2013, we have expanded our development efforts due in part to the significant increase in prices being paid for existing facilities, in many cases well above the cost of developing new facilities.  At December 31, 2013, we had a development pipeline of projects to expand existing self-storage facilities and develop new self-storage facilities, which will add approximately 1.8 million net rentable square feet of self-storage space.  The aggregate cost of these projects is estimated at $196 million, of which $52 million had been incurred at December 31, 2013, and the remaining costs will be incurred principally in 2014.  Some of these projects are subject to significant contingencies such as entitlement approval.  We expect to continue to seek additional development projects; however, due to the difficulty in finding projects that meet our risk-adjusted yield expectations, as well as the difficulty in obtaining building permits for self-storage activities in certain municipalities, it is uncertain as to how much additional development we will undertake in the future.     
		
		
			Participate in the growth of commercial facilities primarily through our ownership in PS Business Parks, Inc.:  Our investment in PSB provides us diversification into another asset type.  PSB is a stand-alone public company traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  During the year ended December 31, 2013, we increased our investment in PSB by acquiring 1,356,748 shares of PSB common stock in open-market transactions and directly from PSB, for an aggregate cost of $105.0 million.
		
		
			Over the past three years, PSB has been able to grow its portfolio through acquisitions.  In 2011 and 2012, PSB acquired an aggregate total of 6.8 million net rentable square feet of commercial space for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $605.0 million.  In 2013, PSB acquired 1.5 million net rentable square feet for an aggregate purchase price of $115.6 million.    As of December 31, 2013, PSB owned and operated approximately 29.7 million net rentable square feet of commercial space, and had an enterprise value of approximately $3.9 billion (based upon the trading price of PSB’s common stock combined with the liquidation value of its debt and preferred stock as of December 31, 2013).  
		
		
			Participate in the growth of European self-storage through ownership in Shurgard Europe:  We believe Shurgard Europe is the largest self-storage company in Western Europe.  It owns and operates 187 facilities with approximately 10 million net rentable square feet in:  France (principally Paris), Sweden (principally Stockholm), the United Kingdom (principally London), the Netherlands, Denmark (principally Copenhagen), Belgium and Germany.  We own 49% of Shurgard Europe, with the other 51% owned by a large U.S. institutional investor.  
		
		
			Customer awareness and availability of self-storage is significantly lower in Europe than in the U.S.  However, with more awareness and product supply, we believe there is potential for increased demand for storage space in Europe.  In the long run, we believe Shurgard Europe could capitalize on 
		
		 

		

			8

		

 

		

			 

		


		potential increased demand through the development of new facilities or, to a lesser extent, acquiring existing facilities.  
		
		
			Financing of the Company’s Growth Strategies
		
		
			Overview of financing strategy:  In order to grow our asset base, access to capital is important.  In general, we seek to finance our investment activities with retained cash flow and the issuance of preferred and common securities when market conditions are favorable, using bank debt as bridge financing when market conditions are not favorable.  
		
		
			Permanent capital:  We have generally been able to raise capital through the issuance of preferred securities at an attractive cost of capital relative to the issuance of our common shares and, as a result, issuances of common shares have been minimal over the past several years.  During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we issued approximately $725.0 million and $1.7 billion, respectively, of preferred securities.  Currently, market conditions are much less favorable, with market coupon rates for our most recently issued series of preferred securities trading at approximately 6.5% (as compared to 5.2% for the preferred securities we issued in the first quarter of 2013).  We believe that market coupon rates for a new issuance of our preferred securities would need to be in the area of 6.5% and the amount of capital we could raise would most likely be much lower than what we raised in the first quarter of 2013.  
		
		
			Bridge financing:  We have in the past used our $300 million revolving line of credit as temporary “bridge” financing and repaid such borrowings with permanent capital.  At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $50.1 million outstanding on our line of credit (none as of February 25, 2014).  On December 2, 2013, we borrowed $700 million from Wells Fargo pursuant to a term loan due in one year, in order to fund our acquisitions of self-storage facilities in the fourth quarter of 2013.  See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information.  
		
		
			Borrowing through mortgage loans or senior debt:  Even though preferred securities have a higher coupon rate than long-term debt, we have generally not issued conventional debt due to refinancing risk associated with debt and other benefits of preferred securities described in more detail in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.”  
		
		
			We have broad powers to borrow in furtherance of our objectives without a vote of our shareholders.  These powers are subject to a limitation on unsecured borrowings in our Bylaws described in “Limitations on Debt” below.  Our senior debt has an “A” credit rating by Standard and Poor’s.  Notwithstanding our desire to continue to meet our capital needs with permanent capital, we believe this high rating, combined with our low level of debt, could allow us to issue a significant amount of unsecured debt at lower interest rates than the coupon on preferred securities if we chose to.  
		
		
			Assumption of Debt: Substantially all of our mortgage debt outstanding was assumed in connection with real estate acquisitions.   When we have assumed debt in the past, we did so because the nature of the loan terms did not allow prepayment, or a prepayment penalty made it economically disadvantageous to prepay.       
		
		
			Issuance of securities in exchange for property: We have issued both our common and preferred securities in exchange for real estate and other investments in the past.  Future issuances will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market conditions at the time, including the market prices of our equity securities.
		
		
			Joint Venture financing: We have used joint ventures with institutional investors and we may form additional joint ventures in the future.
		
		

		
		 

		

			9

		

 

		

			 

		


		Disposition of properties:  Generally, we have disposed of self-storage facilities only when compelled to do so through condemnation proceedings.  We do not presently intend to sell any significant number of self-storage facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not.
		
		
			Investments in Real Estate and Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities
		
		
			Investment Policies and Practices with respect to our investments: Following are our investment practices and policies which, though we do not anticipate any significant alteration, can be changed by our Board of Trustees without a shareholder vote:
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Our investments primarily consist of direct ownership of self-storage facilities (the nature of our self-storage facilities is described in Item 2, “Properties”), as well as partial interests in entities that own self-storage facilities. 
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Our partial ownership interests primarily reflect general and limited partnership interests in entities that own self-storage facilities that are managed by us under the “Public Storage” brand name in the U.S., as well as storage facilities managed in Europe under the “Shurgard” brand name which are owned by Shurgard Europe.
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of properties from third parties) will include common equity interests in entities in which we already have an interest.
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			To a lesser extent, we have interests in existing commercial properties (described in Item 2, “Properties”), containing commercial and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.
		
			Facilities Owned by Subsidiaries
		
		
			In addition to our direct ownership of 2,172 self-storage facilities in the U.S. and one self-storage facility in London, England at December 31, 2013, we have controlling indirect interests in entities that own 14 self-storage facilities in the U.S.  Due to our controlling interest in each of these entities, we consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these entities in our financial statements.
		
		
			Facilities Owned by Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities
		
		
			At December 31, 2013, we also had ownership interests in entities that we do not control or consolidate.  These entities include PSB, Shurgard Europe (discussed above), and various limited partnerships that own an aggregate of 14 self-storage facilities.  These entities are referred to collectively as the “Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities.” 
		
		
			PSB, which files financial statements with the SEC, and Shurgard Europe, have debt and other obligations that we do not consolidate in our financial statements.  None of the other Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities have significant amounts of debt or other obligations.  See Note 4 to our December 31, 2013 financial statements for further disclosure regarding the assets, liabilities and operating results of the Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities.
		
		
			Limitations on Debt 
		
		
			Without the consent of holders of the various series of Senior Preferred Shares, we may not take any action that would result in our “Debt Ratio” exceeding 50%.  “Debt Ratio”, as defined in the related governing documents, represents generally the ratio of debt to total assets before accumulated depreciation and amortization on our balance sheet, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  As of December 31, 2013, the Debt Ratio was approximately 6%.  
		
		

		
		 

		

			10

		

 

		

			 

		


		Our bank and senior unsecured debt agreements contain various customary financial covenants, including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of default.  We believe we were in compliance with each of these covenants as of December 31, 2013.  
		
		
			Employees
		
		
			We have approximately 5,200 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2013 which are engaged primarily in property operations.  
		
		
			Seasonality
		
		
			We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the demand for self-storage space, with demand and rates generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months.  We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months.
		
		
			Insurance
		
		
			We have historically carried customary property, earthquake, general liability, employee medical insurance and workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance carriers, subject to customary levels of deductibles.  The aggregate limits on these policies of approximately $75 million for property losses and $102 million for general liability losses are higher than estimates of maximum probable losses that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exhausted.  
		
		
			We reinsure a program that provides insurance to our customers from an independent third-party insurer.  This program covers tenant claims for losses to goods stored at our facilities as a result of specific named perils (earthquakes are not covered by this program), up to a maximum limit of $5,000 per storage unit.  We reinsure all risks in this program, but purchase insurance from an independent third party insurance company for aggregate claims between $5.0 million and $15.0 million per occurrence.  We are subject to licensing requirements and regulations in several states.  At December  31, 2013, there were approximately 759,000 certificates held by our self-storage customers, representing aggregate coverage of approximately $1.7 billion.
		
		

		
		 

		

			11

		

 

		

			 

		


		
		
		
			ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors
		
		
			In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the Company.  This section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of Item 1.
		
		
			We have significant exposure to real estate risk. 
		
		
			Since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition.  These risks include the following:  
		
		
			Natural disasters or terrorist attacks could cause damage to our facilities, resulting in increased costs and reduced revenues.  Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist attacks could cause significant damage and require significant repair costs, and make facilities temporarily uninhabitable, reducing our revenues.  Damage and business interruption losses could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage.  In addition, because we self-insure a portion of our risks, losses below a certain level may not be covered by insurance.   See Note 13 to our December 31, 2013 financial statements for a description of the risks of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts.  We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack, or such insurance may not be maintained, available or cost-effective.  In addition, significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks, or resulting wider armed conflicts could have negative impacts on the U.S. economy, reducing storage demand and impairing our operating results.  
		
		
			Operating costs could increase.  We could be subject to increases in insurance premiums, increased or new property tax assessments or other taxes, repair and maintenance costs, payroll, utility costs, workers compensation, and other operating expenses due to various factors such as inflation, labor shortages, commodity and energy price increases.  
		
		
			The acquisition of existing properties is subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results.    We have acquired material amounts of self-storage facilities from third parties in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.    We face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors.  As a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased.    Failures or unexpected circumstances in integrating newly acquired properties into our operations or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, such as environmental matters, needed repairs or deferred maintenance, or the effects of increased property tax following reassessment of a newly-acquired property, as well as the general risks of real estate investment, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings from an acquisition.  
		
		
			Development of self-storage facilities can subject us to risks.  At December 31, 2013, we have a pipeline of development projects totaling $196 million (subject to contingencies), and we expect to continue to seek additional development projects.  There are significant risks involved in developing self-storage facilities, such as delays or cost increases due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, weather issues, unforeseen site conditions, or personnel problems.  Self-storage space is generally not pre-leased, and rent-up of newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors.  
		
		
			There is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives.  Most of our properties are self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013.  Competition in the local market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses.  If development of self-storage facilities by other operators were to increase, due to increases in availability of funds for investment or other reasons, competition with our facilities could intensify. 
		
		

		
		 

		

			12

		

 

		

			 

		


		We may incur significant liabilities from environmental contamination or moisture infiltration.   Existing or future laws impose or may impose liability on us to clean up environmental contamination on or around properties that we currently or previously owned or operated, even if we were not responsible for or aware of the environmental contamination or even if such environmental contamination occurred prior to our involvement with the property.  We have conducted preliminary environmental assessments on most of our properties, which have not identified material liabilities.  These assessments, commonly referred to as “Phase 1 Environmental Assessments,” include an investigation (excluding soil or groundwater sampling or analysis) and a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other nearby properties.    
		
		
			We are also subject to potential liability relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other damage to our or our customers’ property, as well as potential health concerns.  When we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our customers to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims.  
		
		
			We are not aware of any environmental contamination or moisture infiltration related liabilities that could be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operation.  However, we may not have detected all material liabilities, we could acquire properties with material undetected liabilities, or new conditions could arise or develop in the future.   Settling any such liabilities could negatively impact our earnings and cash available for distribution to shareholders, and could also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities. 
		
		
			We incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims.  From time to time we have to make monetary settlements or defend actions or arbitration (including class actions) to resolve tenant or employment-related claims and disputes.
		
		
			Economic conditions can adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital.
		
		
			Our revenues and operating cash flow can be negatively impacted by reductions in employment and population levels, household and disposable income, and other general economic factors that lead to a reduction in demand for rental space in each of the markets in which we operate our properties.    
		
		
			Our ability to issue preferred shares or access other sources of capital, such as borrowing, has been in the past, and may in the future be, adversely affected by challenging market conditions.  The issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business.  If we were unable to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates, prospective earnings growth through expanding our asset base could be limited.  
		
		
			We have exposure to European operations through our ownership in Shurgard Europe. 
		
		
			As a result of our ownership of 49% of the equity in Shurgard Europe’s equity with a book value of $424.1 million at December 31, 2013, and our loan to Shurgard Europe totaling $428.1 million at December 31, 2013, we are exposed to additional risks related to the ownership and operation of international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results, including the following: 
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Currency risks:  Currency fluctuations can impact the fair value of our equity investment in, and loan to Shurgard Europe, as well as the related income we receive as well as future repatriation of cash.
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Legislative, tax, and regulatory risks:  We are subject to complex foreign laws and regulations related to permitting and land use, the environment, labor, and other areas, as well as income, property, sales, value added and employment tax laws.  These laws can be difficult to apply or 
		
		 

		

			13

		

 

		

			 

		


		interpret and can vary in each country or locality, and are subject to unexpected changes in their form and application due to regional, national, or local political uncertainty and other factors.  Such changes, or Shurgard’s failure to comply with these laws, could subject it to penalties or other sanctions, adverse changes in business processes, as well as potentially adverse income tax, property tax, or other tax burdens.  
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Impediments to capital repatriation could negatively impact the realization of our investment in Shurgard Europe:  Laws in Europe and the U.S. may create, impede or increase our cost to repatriate capital or earnings from Shurgard Europe.  
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Risks of collective bargaining and intellectual property:  Collective bargaining, which is prevalent in certain areas in Europe, could negatively impact Shurgard Europe’s labor costs or operations.  
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Potential operating and individual country risks:  Economic slowdowns or extraordinary political or social change in the countries in which it operates have posed, and could continue to pose, challenges or result in future reductions of Shurgard Europe’s operating cash flows.   
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Impediments of Shurgard Europe’s joint venture structure:  Shurgard Europe’s significant decisions, involving activities such as borrowing money, capital contributions, raising capital from third parties, as well as selling or acquiring significant assets, require the consent of our joint venture partner.  As a result, Shurgard Europe may be precluded from taking advantage of opportunities that we would find attractive.  In addition, we could be unable to separately pursue such opportunities due to certain market exclusivity provisions of the Shurgard Europe joint venture agreement, and our 49% equity investment may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by potential lenders to Public Storage due to the joint venture structure.   
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Risks related to Shurgard Europe’s Debt:  Shurgard Europe has a term loan from a bank (the “Bank Loan”) with a balance of approximately €107.5 million ($148.0 million) at December 31, 2013 maturing in November 2014 and a loan due to us (the “Shareholder Loan”) totaling €311.0 million ($428.1 million) at December 31, 2013.  On January 28, 2014, our joint venture partner in Shurgard Europe acquired 51% of the Shareholder Loan at face value, using the proceeds from a bank loan (the “JV Partner Loan”), and the maturity date of the Shareholder Loan was extended to April 2019.  The JV Partner Loan matures in two years and is collateralized with our joint venture partner’s interests in the Shareholder Loan and their interest in Shurgard Europe.  Shurgard Europe will seek to refinance the Bank Loan.  If Shurgard Europe is not able to refinance its debt due to a constrained credit market, negative operating trends or other reasons, our equity investment in Shurgard Europe could be negatively impacted.  
		
			The Hughes Family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders.  
		
		
			At December 31, 2013, B. Wayne Hughes, our former Chairman, and his family, which includes two members of the board of trustees (the “Hughes Family”) owned approximately 15.8% of our aggregate outstanding common shares.  Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to own up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares while it generally restricts the ownership by other persons and entities to 3% of our outstanding common shares.  Consequently, the Hughes Family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, resulting in an outcome that may not be favorable to other shareholders. 
		
		
			Takeover attempts or changes in control could be thwarted, even if beneficial to shareholders.
		
		

		
		 

		

			14

		

 

		

			 

		


		In certain circumstances, shareholders might desire a change of control or acquisition of us, in order to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares or for other reasons.  However, the following could prevent, deter, or delay such a transaction:   
		
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Provisions of Maryland law may impose limitations that may make it more difficult for a third party to negotiate or effect a business combination transaction or control share acquisition with Public Storage.  Currently, the Board has opted not to subject the Company to these provisions of Maryland law, but it could choose to do so in the future without shareholder approval.    
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			To protect against the loss of our REIT status due to concentration of ownership levels, our declaration of trust generally limits the ability of a person, other than the Hughes Family or “designated investment entities” (each as defined in our declaration of trust), to own, actually or constructively, more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in either case unless a specific exemption is granted by our board of trustees.  These limits could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees. 
		
			
				 ·
			
		
			
			Similarly, current provisions of our declaration of trust and powers of our Board of Trustees could have the same effect, including (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares on terms approved by the Board without obtaining shareholder approval, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the Board’s ability under Maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control.
		
			If we failed to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay substantial income taxes.
		
		
			REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements.  A qualifying REIT does not generally incur federal income tax on its net income that is distributed to its shareholders.  Our REIT status is also dependent upon the ongoing REIT qualification of our affiliate, PSB, as a REIT, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. We believe that we are organized and have operated as a REIT and we intend to continue to operate to maintain our REIT status. 
		
		
			There can be no assurance that we qualify or will continue to qualify as a REIT.  The highly technical nature of the REIT rules, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, the possibility of unidentified issues in prior periods or changes in our circumstances, all could adversely affect our ability to comply.  For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and statutory relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular federal corporate rates on all of our taxable income and we also could be subject to penalties and interest.  We would generally not be eligible to seek REIT status again until the fifth taxable year after the first year of our failure to qualify. Any taxes, interest and penalties incurred would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect.   
		
		
			We may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders.
		
		
			Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property.  Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the Company have elected to be treated as “taxable REIT subsidiaries” for federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions.  If tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable REIT subsidiaries to us are greater than what would be paid under similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject 
		
		 

		

			15

		

 

		

			 

		


		to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments.  To the extent the Company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes due to existing laws or changes thereto, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. 
		
		
			We are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the Internet to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business and security breaches or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could adversely impact our business and customer relationships. 
		
		
			We are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and Internet commerce, with approximately half of our new customers coming from the telephone or over the Internet, and the nature of our business involves the receipt and retention of personal information about our customers.  We centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services.  These systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events.
		
		
			As a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other circumstance that resulted in a significant outage at our systems or those of our third party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures.  Further, viruses and other related risks could negatively impact our information technology processes.  Our or our customers’ confidential information could be compromised or misappropriated, due to a breach of our network security.  Such data security breaches as well as system disruptions and shutdowns could result in additional costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems and possible legal liability, including government enforcement actions and private litigation.  In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasing our self-storage facilities.  Such events could lead to lost future revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. 
		
		
			We have no ownership interest in Canadian self-storage facilities owned or operated by the Hughes Family. 
		
		
			At December 31, 2013, the Hughes Family had ownership interests in, and operated, 54 self-storage facilities in Canada (the “Canadian Self-Storage Facilities”).  These facilities are operated under the “Public Storage” tradename, which we license to the Hughes Family for use in Canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis.  We have a right of first refusal, subject to limitations, to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the Canadian Self-Storage Facilities if the Hughes Family or the corporation agrees to sell them.  However, we do not benefit from profits or potential appreciation in value of the Canadian Self-Storage Facilities because we have no ownership interest in these facilities.  We do not operate in the Canadian self-storage market, and have no plans to do so.  However, if we choose to do so without acquiring the Hughes Family interests in the Canadian Self-Storage Facilities, we may have to share the use of the “Public Storage” name in Canada with the Hughes Family, unless we are able to terminate the license agreement.  
		
		
			Through our subsidiaries, we reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by customers in the Canadian Self-Storage Facilities.  During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we received $0.5 million, $0.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the Canadian Self-Storage Facilities.  Because our right to earn these premiums may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. 
		
		

		
		 

		

			16

		

 

		

			 

		


		
		
		
			We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that require us to incur compliance costs affecting our operating results and financial condition.
		
		
			Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, restatement of our financial statements and could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities.
		
		
			The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as well as other healthcare reform legislation recently passed or being considered by Congress and state legislatures (collectively, the “Healthcare Legislation”) are expected to impact our business beginning in 2014.  Based on its current form, we believe that the Healthcare Legislation will at least moderately increase our costs; however, there could be a significant further negative impact to our costs and business depending upon how the various governmental agencies design and implement the specific regulations to implement the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the nature of further legislation that may be passed at the national and local level, and other factors.
		
		
			In response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations could be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as legislation that could facilitate union activity or that would otherwise increase operating costs.
		
		
			All our properties must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with related regulations and similar state law requirements, as well as various real estate and zoning laws and regulations, which are subject to change and could become more costly to comply with in the future.  Compliance with these requirements can require us to incur significant expenditures, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders.  A failure to comply with these laws could lead to fines or possible awards of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance.  Failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. 
		
		
			Our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth.
		
		
			We hold Limited Lines Self-Service Storage Insurance Agent licenses from a number of individual state Departments of Insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision.  Our continued ability to maintain these Limited Lines Self-Service Storage Insurance Agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations.  The regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents.  As a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our reinsurance activities, or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment.  For the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded a total of $67.8 million in net income from our tenant reinsurance activities. 
		
		
			ITEM 1B