Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and
in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ("SEC"). These
risks include, among others, the following:

     o    general  risks  associated  with the  ownership  and operation of real
          estate   including   changes  in  demand,   potential   liability  for
          environmental  contamination,  adverse changes in tax, real estate and
          zoning laws and regulations, and the impact of natural disasters;

     o    risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies in
          the markets in which we operate;

     o    the risk that Public  Storage may for any reason be unable to finalize
          negotiations  and  completion  of  a  possible  transaction  involving
          Shurgard  Europe;

     o    the  impact of  competition  from new and  existing  self-storage  and
          commercial facilities and other storage alternatives;

     o    difficulties  in  our  ability  to  successfully  evaluate,   finance,
          integrate  into  our  existing  operations  and  manage  acquired  and
          developed properties;

     o    risks related to our participation in joint ventures;

     o    risks  associated with  international  operations  including,  but not
          limited to, unfavorable  foreign currency rate fluctuations that could
          adversely affect our earnings and cash flows;

     o    the impact of the regulatory  environment as well as national,  state,
          and local laws and regulations  including,  without limitation,  those
          governing real estate investment trusts ("REITs");

     o    risks  associated  with a possible  failure by us to qualify as a REIT
          under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;

     o    disruptions or shutdowns of our automated processes and systems;

                                       3



     o    difficulties in raising capital at a reasonable cost;

     o    delays in the development process; and

     o    economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism.

     The  risks  included  here are not  exhaustive  as it is not  possible  for
management  to predict all  possible  risk factors that may exist or emerge from
time to time.  Investors should refer to our quarterly  reports on Form 10-Q for
future periods and current reports on Form 8-K and other  information filed from
time to time with the SEC Commission for additional information.

GENERAL
- -------

     Public  Storage was organized in 1980.  Effective  June 1, 2007,  following
approval by our shareholders,  we reorganized  Public Storage,  Inc. into Public
Storage,  a Maryland real estate  investment  trust  (referred to herein as "the
Company",  "the  Trust",  "we",  "us",  or  "our").  We are a fully  integrated,
self-administered  and  self-managed  REIT whose principal  business  activities
include the  acquisition,  development,  ownership and operation of self-storage
facilities  which offer storage spaces for lease,  generally on a month-to-month
basis,  for personal and business  use. We are the largest owner and operator of
self-storage  facilities in the United States ("U.S."),  and we have an interest
in what we believe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage  facilities
in Europe.  We significantly  increased the scope and scale of our operations on
August 22, 2006, when we merged with Shurgard Storage Centers,  Inc. ("Shurgard"
and the  merger  referred  to as the  "Shurgard  Merger"),  a REIT  which had an
interest in 487 self-storage  facilities  located in the U.S. and an interest in
the self-storage business in seven Western European countries.

     At December 31, 2007, we had direct and indirect equity  interests in 2,012
self-storage facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the
"Public Storage" name containing  approximately  126 million net rentable square
feet of space, and 174 self-storage facilities located in seven Western European
countries  which operate under the "Shurgard  Storage  Centers" name  containing
approximately  nine  million net  rentable  square  feet of space.  We also have
direct and indirect equity  interests in  approximately  21 million net rentable
square feet of commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S.  operated under
the "PS Business Parks" and Public Storage brands.

     We  currently  operate  within  three  reportable  segments:  (i)  Domestic
self-storage  operations,   (ii)  European  self-storage  operations  and  (iii)
domestic ancillary operations. These segments are organized generally based upon
their operating characteristics. The Domestic self-storage segment comprises the
direct  ownership,   development,  and  operation  of  traditional  self-storage
facilities in the U.S.,  and the ownership of equity  interests in entities that
own  self-storage  properties  in the U.S.  The  European  self-storage  segment
comprises  the direct or  indirect  ownership,  development,  and  operation  of
self-storage  facilities in Europe that we acquired in the Shurgard Merger.  The
domestic  ancillary   operations  segment  includes  the  following  sources  of
operating  income:   (i)  containerized   storage,   (ii)  commercial   property
operations,  which  reflects  our  interest  in the  ownership,  operation,  and
management of commercial  properties,  (iii) the reinsurance of policies against
losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage  facilities,  (iv) sale of
merchandise  at  our   self-storage   facilities,   (v)  truck  rentals  at  our
self-storage  facilities and (vi) management of facilities  owned by third-party
owners and  facilities  owned by entities in which we have an interest,  but are
not consolidated.  The vast majority of the commercial  property  operations are
conducted through PS Business Parks,  Inc. ("PSB"),  and to a much lesser extent
the Company and certain of its unconsolidated  subsidiaries which own commercial
space. We have a 45% ownership  interest in PSB, which, as of December 31, 2007,
owned and operated commercial properties  containing  approximately 19.6 million
net rentable  square feet of  commercial  space.  PSB is a publicly  traded REIT
whose common stock trades on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol "PSB."

     For all  taxable  years  subsequent  to 1980,  we  qualified  and intend to
continue to qualify as a REIT, as defined in Section 856 of the Internal Revenue
Code.  As a REIT,  we do not incur  federal or  significant  state taxes on that
portion of our taxable income which is distributed to our shareholders, provided
that we meet certain tests. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT,
we will not be subject to tax, with certain limited  exceptions,  on the taxable
income that is distributed to our shareholders.

                                       4



     We have reported annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial
statements  certified by independent public  accountants.  We have also reported
quarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited financial statements
with such filings. We expect to continue such reporting.

     Our website is www.publicstorage.com,  and we make available free of charge
on our website our Annual Report on Forms 10-K,  quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
and current  reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed
with or furnished to the SEC.

MANAGEMENT
- ----------

     Ronald L. Havner, Jr. (50) has been Vice Chairman,  Chief Executive Officer
and a trustee of the Company since November 7, 2002 and President  since July 1,
2005.  Mr.  Havner  joined  Public  Storage  in 1986 and has held a  variety  of
positions,  including  Chairman  of the  Board of  Directors  for the  Company's
affiliate, PSB.

     B. Wayne  Hughes (74) is Chairman of the Board of  Trustees,  a position he
has held since 1991. Mr. Hughes founded the Public Storage organization in 1972.

     Our  executive  management  team and  their  years of  experience  with the
Company are as follows: John Reyes (47), Senior Vice President - Chief Financial
Officer,  17 years;  John S. Baumann (47),  Senior Vice  President - Chief Legal
Officer,  four years;  John E. Graul (56),  Senior Vice President and President,
Self-Storage Operations, four years; Candace N. Krol (46), Senior Vice President
of Human Resources,  two years and David F. Doll (49), Senior Vice President and
President, Real Estate Group, three years.

     Our senior management has a significant  ownership  position in the Company
with  executive  officers,  trustees and their  families,  including  the Hughes
Family,  owning  approximately 43.5 million shares or 25.5% of the common shares
as of February 28, 2008.

INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE
- --------------------

     Our primary  objective  is to increase the  intrinsic  value of the Company
through  internal  growth (by increasing net income,  funds from  operations and
cash available for  distribution)  and  acquisitions  of additional  real estate
investments  and  development  of real estate  facilities.  We believe  that our
access  to  capital,   geographic  diversification  and  operating  efficiencies
resulting from our size will enhance our ability to achieve this objective.

COMPETITION
- -----------

     Competition  in the market  areas in which we operate  is  significant  and
affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses
of our facilities.  Development of new  self-storage  facilities has intensified
the  competition  among  storage  operators  in many  market  areas  in which we
operate.

     In seeking investments,  we compete with a wide variety of institutions and
other  investors.  The increase in the amount of funds available for real estate
investments has increased  competition for ownership interests in facilities and
may reduce yields on acquisitions.

     We believe that the significant  operating and financial  experience of our
management team,  combined with the Company's  conservative  capital  structure,
national  investment  scope,  geographic  diversity,  economies of scale and the
"Public Storage" brand name, should enable us to compete  effectively with other
entities.

     The self-storage industry remains fragmented in the U.S. We believe that we
own approximately 8% of the aggregate  self-storage  square footage in the U.S.,
and that the five largest self-storage operators in the U.S. own only 17% of the
aggregate  self-storage  space in the  U.S.,  with the  remaining  83%  owned by
numerous  private  regional  and local  operators.  We believe  that this market
fragmentation  enhances the advantage of our economies of scale  relative to our
other operators, and could result in potential growth in our platform through

                                       5



acquisitions  over the long term.  We think that we are well  positioned to
capitalize  on this  potential  due to our  demonstrated  access to capital  and
national presence.

     The  self-storage  industry in Europe is relatively  new as compared to the
U.S,  with  customer  awareness of the product lower than in the U.S. We believe
there are approximately  1,090  self-storage  facilities  throughout  Europe, as
compared to approximately 40,000 self-storage facilities throughout the U.S. See
also "Capitalize on the Potential for Growth in Europe" below. While competition
is  increasing,  we believe  that we are the  largest  self-storage  operator in
Western Europe at December 31, 2007.

BUSINESS ATTRIBUTES
- -------------------

     We believe that we possess several primary business  attributes that permit
us to compete effectively:

     CENTRALIZED INFORMATION NETWORKS: Our facilities in the U.S. and Europe are
part of  comprehensive  centralized  reporting and  information  networks  which
enable our U.S.  and  European  management  teams to  identify  changing  market
conditions  and operating  trends as well as analyze  customer data, and quickly
change our properties' pricing and promotional mix on an automated basis.

     NATIONAL  TELEPHONE   RESERVATION   CENTER:  In  the  U.S.,  we  operate  a
centralized  telephone reservation system, which provides added customer service
and helps to maximize  utilization of available  self-storage  space.  Customers
calling either the toll-free  telephone  referral system,  (800) 44-STORE,  or a
storage  facility,   are  directed  to  the  national   reservation   system.  A
representative  discusses  with  the  customer  space  requirements,  price  and
location  preferences  and also  informs  the  customer  of other  products  and
services  provided  by the  Company and its  subsidiaries.  We believe  that the
centralized  telephone reservation system enhances our ability to market storage
space in the United  States  relative  to  handling  these  calls at  individual
properties,  because  it allows us to more  effectively  offer all spaces at all
facilities  in the  vicinity  of a customer  and we can  provide  higher-quality
selling  efforts  through  dedicated  sales  specialists  trained  in a  central
location. We also provide customers the opportunity to review space availability
and make reservations online through our website, www.publicstorage.com.

     ECONOMIES OF SCALE: We are the largest  provider of  self-storage  space in
the U.S.  and Europe.  As of  December  31,  2007,  we  operated  2,186  storage
facilities  in which we had an interest and managed 31  self-storage  facilities
for third parties.  These facilities are in markets within 38 states in the U.S.
and  seven  Western  European  countries.  At  December  31,  2007,  we had over
1,095,000  self-storage spaces rented. The size and scope of our operations have
enabled us to achieve high operating  margins and a low level of  administrative
costs relative to revenues,  through the  centralization  of many functions with
specialists,  such as facility  maintenance,  employee compensation and benefits
programs,  pricing of our product,  as well as the development and documentation
of  standardized  operating  procedures.  We also  believe that our major market
concentration  provides  managerial  efficiencies  stemming  from having a large
number of facilities in close proximity to each other.

     BRAND NAME RECOGNITION:  Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the
"Public  Storage"  brand  name,  which we  believe  is the most  recognized  and
established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S. Our storage operations
within the U.S. are conducted in 38 states,  giving us national  recognition and
prominence.  Our facilities  tend to be in highly visible and heavily  populated
areas,  improving  the local  awareness  of our  brand.  Customer  awareness  of
self-storage  in  Europe  is  emerging.  All of our  facilities  in  Europe  are
operating under the "Shurgard Storage Centers" brand name. We believe we are the
single largest self-storage operator in Western Europe as of December 31, 2007.

     MAJOR MARKET  CONCENTRATION  IN THE U.S.:  We focus our  operations  in the
major markets in the U.S., which we believe  enhances our marketing  efficiency.
We can economically purchase large, prominent,  well-placed yellow page ads that
allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller  operators.  We are
also able to purchase and bid aggressively for  multiple-keyword  advertising on
national Internet search engines. In addition, we are able to market efficiently
using television as a media source.  We believe that our competitors  cannot use
television  advertising,  because their limited concentration of facilities does
not  provide a  sufficient  potential  customer  base to offset the high cost of
television advertising.

                                       6



     In addition,  we believe that in recent years,  zoning requirements in some
of the  major  metropolitan  markets  in  which  we  operate  in the  U.S.  have
increased, resulting in more barriers to new competition. While this has limited
our  new  development  opportunities,  it has  minimized  supply  increases  and
competition with certain of our properties.

     RETAIL OPERATIONS:  Through a taxable REIT subsidiary, we sell retail items
associated  with the  storage  business  and  rent  trucks  at our  self-storage
facilities  in order to  supplement  and  strengthen  the existing  self-storage
business by further meeting the needs of storage customers.

     Each of our self-storage  locations' rental offices sell locks,  boxes, and
packing materials,  while certain of the facilities in the U.S. also rent trucks
primarily  to storage  customers or operate as an agent of  long-distance  truck
rental companies.  These rental offices which conduct these activities  include,
in some cases, larger retail-oriented locations.

     TENANT INSURANCE PROGRAM:  Through taxable REIT  subsidiaries,  we reinsure
policies  issued to our tenants  against lost or damaged goods stored by tenants
in our storage facilities.  These subsidiaries receive the premiums and bear the
risks  associated with the  re-insurance.  We believe that our tenant  insurance
operations further supplement and strengthen the existing  self-storage business
and provide an additional source of earnings for the Company.

GROWTH AND INVESTMENT STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------

     Our growth strategies  consist of: (i) improving the operating  performance
of our existing  self-storage  properties,  (ii) acquiring  properties  that are
owned or  operated  by others  in the  U.S.,  (iii)  expanding  and  repackaging
existing  U.S.  real  estate  facilities,  (iv)  participating  in the growth of
commercial  facilities  owned  primarily  by PSB  and  (v)  capitalizing  on the
potential  growth in the European  market.  These  strategies  are  described as
follows:

     IMPROVE  THE  OPERATING  PERFORMANCE  OF  EXISTING  PROPERTIES:  We seek to
increase the net cash flow generated by our existing self-storage  properties by
a)  regularly   evaluating   our  call   volume,   reservation   activity,   and
move-in/move-out  rates for each of our  properties  relative  to our  marketing
activities, b) evaluating market supply and demand factors and, based upon these
analyses,  adjusting our marketing activities and rental rates, c) attempting to
maximize revenues through evaluating the appropriate  balance between occupancy,
rental rates, and promotional  discounting and d) controlling expense levels. We
believe that our property  management  personnel and systems,  combined with the
national  telephone  reservation  system  and media  advertising  programs  will
continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals.

     ACQUIRE  PROPERTIES OWNED OR OPERATED BY OTHERS IN THE U.S.: We believe our
presence in and knowledge of substantially  all of the major markets in the U.S.
enhances  our  ability to  identify  attractive  acquisition  opportunities  and
capitalize on the overall  fragmentation in the self-storage  industry.  Data on
the rental  rates and  occupancy  levels of our existing  facilities,  which are
often located in proximity to potential  acquisition  candidates,  provide us an
advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities.

     EXPAND AND REPACKAGE EXISTING REAL ESTATE FACILITIES: We have a substantial
number of facilities in the U.S. that were developed and  constructed 20 or more
years ago based upon local  competitive and  demographic  conditions in place at
that time. Population densities and other such conditions may have changed since
then,  providing  opportunities  to expand and further  invest into our existing
self-storage locations, either by improving the quality of the existing units by
adding amenities such as climate control,  or by expanding these facilities at a
per square foot cost that is typically less than the cost incurred in developing
a new  location.  At December 31, 2007,  we have  identified 27 such projects to
expand or repackage our existing  facilities in the U.S.,  for an aggregate cost
of  approximately  $106.9 million,  which will add an aggregate of approximately
1,105,000 net rentable  square feet.  Completion of these projects is subject to
contingencies, including obtaining governmental agency approvals. We continue to
evaluate our existing real estate portfolio to identify additional expansion and
repackaging opportunities.

     In recent years, our rate of development of new self-storage  facilities in
the U.S. has declined due to increases in construction cost, increases in

                                       7



competition with retail,  condominium,  and apartment operators for quality
self-storage sites in urban locations,  and more difficult zoning and permitting
requirements.  We  will  continue  to  seek  favorable  sites  and  markets  for
development,  based upon current market conditions.  In the short-term we do not
expect any significant investment in new development locations in the U.S.

     PARTICIPATE IN THE GROWTH OF COMMERCIAL  FACILITIES  PRIMARILY  THROUGH OUR
OWNERSHIP IN PS BUSINESS PARKS,  INC.: At December 31, 2007, we had a 45% common
equity  interest  in PSB and  its  operating  partnership  which,  consisted  of
5,418,273 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited  partnership units in the
Operating  Partnership.  The limited  partnership  units are  convertible at our
option,  subject to certain  conditions,  on a one-for-one basis into PSB common
stock. At December 31, 2007, PSB owned and operated  approximately  19.6 million
net rentable  square feet of  commercial  space  located in the U.S.  located in
eight states.

     CAPITALIZE ON THE POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH IN EUROPE:  Our European  operations
are conducted  through Shurgard  Self-Storage SCA, a Belgian company referred to
hereinafter as "Shurgard Europe".

     The self-storage market in Europe is relatively new, making it difficult to
obtain reliable statistics regarding competition throughout Europe. We track and
maintain information regarding customers and competitors in the markets in which
we operate, and in markets where we are considering expansion.

     According to the most recent data  provided by the  Federation  of European
Self-Storage  Associations  ("FEDESSA"),   the  self-storage  market  in  Europe
(defined as Belgium, Czech Republic,  Denmark,  Finland, France, Germany, Italy,
The  Netherlands,  Norway,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland and the United Kingdom)
consisted of approximately  1,090 stores as of March 2007,  approximately 600 of
which are located in the United Kingdom.  We believe,  however,  that because of
the number of new entrants  into the market,  FEDESSA may  understate  the total
number of stores in many markets even as of the date reported.  Less  fragmented
than the U.S. market, the European self-storage market is dominated by a handful
of larger players and a few midsized operators, with the remainder of the market
consisting of smaller operators.  The top five operators of stores in Europe, of
which we believe we are the largest,  collectively have approximately 45% of the
aggregate  market share for  self-storage  space,  based on net rentable  square
footage, as of March 2007. Because of the number of new entrants into the market
and difficulties in collecting data, the information presented by FEDESSA at any
time may  understate  the total number of stores in many  markets.  However,  we
believe the  information  presented by FEDESSA is the best available  measure of
market size and competition.

     Although  many  European  consumers  are not yet aware of the  self-storage
concept,  they tend to live in more densely  populated  areas in smaller  living
spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe,  should make  self-storage an
attractive  option as product  knowledge and availability  grows. Most Europeans
are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary  service  provided
by moving companies.  The service provided by moving companies is typically full
service, prevents direct access by customers and may involve security issues for
the users  because  they have less  control  over  their  goods in  storage.  In
addition,  most of these moving  companies  require  advance  notice to retrieve
goods and charge  handling  fees and minimum  monthly  fees,  making the cost of
smaller storage requirements costly.

     As a result of this low  density  of  self-storage  in Europe  relative  to
population as compared to the U.S., we believe that there is significant  growth
potential  in Europe,  even if the  density of  self-storage  in Europe does not
ultimately approach the levels in the U.S. Capitalizing on this opportunity will
require a significant  amount of capital to develop new self-storage  facilities
in what  could be a process  extending  through  a few  decades  in time  frame,
similar to the trajectory of the U.S.  self-storage industry since its inception
in the mid 1960's.

     Notwithstanding  the potential of this  opportunity,  we believe that it is
not appropriate to invest significant amounts of our existing U.S. based capital
into Europe,  because of a) the lack of tax  efficiency  of operating in various
tax jurisdictions,  many of which subject these operations to income tax as well
as certain  taxes upon  repatriation  of funds to the U.S.,  b)  constraints  on
ownership or operations required in order to satisfy the statutory  requirements
of being a U.S.  REIT, as well as c) the differing  risk/return  profile of such
investments in European self-storage  operations relative to the expectations of
our existing  investor base.  Accordingly,  we believe that separate  sources of
capital obtained through a separate public European-based entity, best positions
our European  operations for long-term  growth. We attempted a share offering in
Europe in mid-2007 in order to  establish  such a public  entity;  however,  the
offering  was  abandoned  because  market  conditions  were and  continue  to be
unfavorable.

                                       8



     In January 2008, we announced that we reached an agreement in principle for
a prospective investor to acquire a 51% ownership interest in Shurgard Europe in
a  private  transaction  at a price  generally  consistent  with the  previously
disclosed proceeds we expected to receive for our equity interest in last year's
terminated  European share offering.  No binding  agreement has been signed with
the prospective investor and there is no assurance that a binding agreement will
be signed or that a transaction will be completed. We estimate the completion of
the  transaction  at the end of the first  quarter  of 2008  assuming  a binding
agreement is signed and the conditions related to the transaction are satisfied.

     Concurrent with the completion of the proposed transaction, we will seek to
obtain a waiver from the lenders of the Second  Shurgard credit facility for the
change in control acceleration clause contained in the credit facility. See Note
19 to our  December  31,  2007  financial  statements  for  further  information
regarding the proposed transaction involving Shurgard Europe.

     While we intend to reduce our  exposure  to Europe  for the  aforementioned
reasons,  we intend to  continue  to hold a  significant  minority  position  in
Shurgard Europe in order to participate in this entity's growth.

     POLICIES WITH RESPECT TO INVESTING  ACTIVITIES:  Following are our policies
with respect to certain other investing strategies, each of which may be entered
into without a vote of shareholders:

     o    MAKING LOANS TO OTHER ENTITIES:  We have made loans in connection with
          the sale of properties, have made short-term loans to PSB and Shurgard
          Europe in the last three years and may make loans to third  parties as
          part of our  investment  objectives.  However,  we do not expect  such
          items to be a significant part of our long-term investing activities.

     o    INVESTING  IN THE  SECURITIES  OF OTHER  ISSUERS  FOR THE  PURPOSE  OF
          EXERCISING CONTROL:  While we have not engaged in this activity in the
          last three years, we may engage in these activities in the future as a
          component  of our  real  estate  acquisition  strategy.  We  also  own
          partnership  interests  in  various  consolidated  and  unconsolidated
          partnerships.   See  "Investments  in  Real  Estate  and  Real  Estate
          Entities."

     o    UNDERWRITING  SECURITIES OF OTHER ISSUERS: We have not engaged in this
          activity in the last three years, and do not intend to in the future.

     o    SHORT-TERM  INVESTING:  We have not  engaged  in  investments  in real
          estate or real estate entities on a short-term basis in the last three
          years. Instead,  historically, we have acquired real estate assets and
          held them for an extended  period of time.  We do not  anticipate  any
          such short-term investments.

     o    REPURCHASING OR REACQUIRING OUR COMMON SHARES OR OTHER SECURITIES: Our
          Board of Trustees has authorized  the repurchase  from time to time of
          up to  25,000,000  of our  common  shares  on the  open  market  or in
          privately negotiated  transactions.  Cumulatively through February 28,
          2008, we  repurchased a total of 23,721,916 of our common shares under
          this  authorization.  Cumulatively  through February 28, 2008, we have
          called  for  redemption  or  repurchased  $2.3  billion  of our senior
          preferred shares and $165 million of our preferred  partnership  units
          for  cash,   representing  a  refinancing  of  these  securities  into
          lower-coupon  preferred  securities.  Any  future  repurchases  of our
          common  shares  will  depend  primarily  upon  the  attractiveness  of
          repurchases  compared  to our other  investment  alternatives.  Future
          redemptions  or repurchases  of our preferred  securities,  which will
          become available for redemption or repurchase on their respective call
          dates,  will be  largely  dependent  upon the  spread  between  market
          dividend  rates  for the newly  issued  preferred  securities  and the
          dividend rates of our existing preferred securities.

                                       9




FINANCING OF THE COMPANY'S GROWTH STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------------------

     OVERVIEW OF  FINANCING  STRATEGY:  Over the past three years we have funded
substantially all the cash portion of our acquisition and development activities
with permanent  capital  (predominantly  retained cash flow and the net proceeds
from the issuance of  preferred  securities).  We have elected to use  preferred
securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our
preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional
debt,  because of certain  benefits  described in  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity  and Capital
Resources." Our present  intention is to continue to finance  substantially  all
our growth with permanent capital.

     BORROWINGS:  We have in the past used our $300  million  revolving  line of
credit described below under "Borrowings" as temporary "bridge"  financing,  and
repaid those amounts with  permanent  capital.  Our debt  outstanding  currently
represents debt that was assumed either in connection with property acquisitions
or in connection with the Shurgard Merger. When we have assumed such debt in the
past, we have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of
the loan terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made
it  not  economically  advantageous  to  prepay.  While  it is not  our  present
intention to issue additional debt as a long-term  financing  strategy,  we have
broad powers to borrow in furtherance  of our  objectives  without a vote of our
shareholders.  These powers are subject to a limitation on unsecured  borrowings
in our Bylaws described in "Limitations on Borrowings" below.

     At December  31,  2007,  we had undrawn  standby  letters of credit,  which
reduce our  borrowing  capacity with respect to our line of credit by the amount
of the standby letters of credit, totaling $20.4 million.

     ISSUANCE OF SENIOR SECURITIES:  We have in the last three years issued, and
expect to  continue to issue,  additional  series of  preferred  shares that are
senior to our Common  Shares and Equity  Shares.  At December 31,  2007,  we had
approximately  $3.5  billion   (liquidation   preference)  of  preferred  shares
outstanding.  The preferred  shares,  which were issued in series,  have general
preference  rights with respect to liquidation and quarterly  distributions.  We
intend to continue to issue  preferred  securities  without a vote of our common
shareholders.

     ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES  IN EXCHANGE FOR  PROPERTY:  We have issued both our
common  and  preferred   securities  in  exchange  for  real  estate  and  other
investments  in the last three years,  most  notably the issuance of  38,913,187
common shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger in 2006.  Future  issuances
will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market  conditions at the
time, including the market prices of our equity securities.

     JOINT  VENTURE  FINANCING:   We  have  historically  formed  and  may  form
additional  joint ventures to facilitate the funding of future  developments  or
acquisitions.  Through the Shurgard  Merger in 2006,  we acquired an interest in
two joint venture  entities:  First Shurgard SPRL ("First  Shurgard")  formed in
January 2003 and Second Shurgard SPRL ("Second Shurgard") formed in May 2004.

     In  January  2004,  we entered  into a joint  venture  partnership  with an
institutional  investor  for the purpose of  acquiring  up to $125.0  million of
existing   self-storage   properties   in  the  U.S.  from  third  parties  (the
"Acquisition  Joint  Venture").  The  venture  is funded  entirely  with  equity
consisting of 30% from the Company and 70% from the institutional  investor. For
a six-month  period  beginning 54 months after  formation,  we have the right to
acquire our joint venture partner's  interest based upon the market value of the
properties.  If we do not exercise  our option,  our joint  venture  partner can
elect to purchase  our  interest  in the  properties  during a six-month  period
commencing upon expiration of our six-month option period.  If our joint venture
partner fails to exercise its option, the partnership will be liquidated and the
proceeds  will be  distributed  to the partners  according to the joint  venture
agreement.  As of  December  31,  2007,  the  Acquisition  Joint  Venture  owned
interests  in a  total  of  12  self-storage  facilities.  See  Note  8  to  our
consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2007 for further discussion of
the  accounting  for  the  Acquisition  Joint  Venture.  We do  not  expect  the
Acquisition Joint Venture to acquire any additional facilities.

     In addition, as previously disclosed,  we reached an agreement in principle
for a  prospective  investor to acquire a 51%  interest in Shurgard  Europe in a
private  transaction  at  a  price  generally  consistent  with  the  previously

                                       10


disclosed proceeds Public Storage expected to receive for its equity interest in
last year's  terminated  European share offering.  No binding agreement has been
signed with the  prospective  investor and there is no assurance  that a binding
agreement will be signed or that the transaction will be completed.  We estimate
completion of the transaction at the end of the first quarter of 2008 assuming a
binding  agreement is signed and the conditions  related to the  transaction are
satisfied.

     Concurrent with the completion of the proposed transaction, we will seek to
obtain a waiver from the lenders of the Second  Shurgard credit facility for the
change in control acceleration clause contained in the credit facility. See Note
19 to our  December  31,  2007  financial  statements  for  further  information
regarding the proposed transaction involving Shurgard Europe.

     DISPOSITION OF PROPERTIES:  We  historically  have disposed of self-storage
facilities only because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell. We
do  not  presently  intend  to  sell  any  significant  number  of  self-storage
facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not.

INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE ENTITIES
- ---------------------------------------------------

     INVESTMENT   POLICIES  AND  PRACTICES  WITH  RESPECT  TO  OUR  INVESTMENTS:
Following  are our  investment  practices and policies  which,  though we do not
anticipate any significant  alteration,  can be changed by our board of trustees
without a shareholder vote:

     o    Our investments  primarily consist of direct ownership of self-storage
          properties (the nature of our self-storage  properties is described in
          Item 2,  "Properties"),  as well as partial interests in entities that
          own self-storage properties, which are primarily located in the U.S.

     o    Our investments are acquired both for income and for capital gain.

     o    Our partial ownership  interests primarily reflect general and limited
          partnership  interests in entities  that own  self-storage  facilities
          that are managed by us under the "Public  Storage" brand name and to a
          lesser  extent,   storage  facilities  managed  in  Europe  under  the
          "Shurgard Storage Centers" brand name.

     o    Additional   acquired   interests  in  real  estate  (other  than  the
          acquisition  properties from third parties) will include common equity
          interests in entities in which we already have an interest.

     o    To  a  lesser  extent,  we  have  interests  in  existing   commercial
          properties (described in Item 2, "Properties"),  containing commercial
          and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.

     The  following  table  outlines  our  ownership  interest  in  self-storage
facilities in the U.S. at December 31, 2007:




                                                                                Net Rentable Square
                                                                                    Footage of
                                                Number of Self-Storage          Self-Storage Space
                                                     Facilities                   (in thousands)
                                                ----------------------          -------------------
Consolidated self-storage facilities:
                                                                                  
   Wholly-owned by the Company...............          1,504                            96,454
   Owned by consolidated entities............            480                            28,374
                                                   ------------                     -----------
                                                       1,984                           124,828
                                                   ------------                     -----------
 Facilities owned by unconsolidated entities.             28                             1,646
 Total self-storage facilities in which the        ------------                     -----------
   Company has an ownership interest.........          2,012                           126,474
                                                   ============                     ===========


                                       11





     The  following  table  outlines  our  ownership  interest  in  self-storage
facilities in Europe at December 31, 2007:




                                                                                Net Rentable Square
                                                                                    Footage of
                                                Number of Self-Storage          Self-Storage Space
                                                   Facilities                      (in thousands)
                                                ----------------------          -------------------

Consolidated self-storage facilities:
                                                                                   
   Wholly-owned by the Company...............            104                             5,664
   Owned by consolidated entities............             70                             3,451
 Total self-storage facilities in which the          -----------                    -----------
   Company has an ownership interest.........            174                             9,115
                                                     ===========                    ===========



     In addition to our interest in  self-storage  facilities  noted  above,  we
consolidate  1,455,000 net rentable  square feet of commercial  space we have an
interest in which is primarily  located  adjacent to certain of our self-storage
facilities.  We also have a 45% common  interest in PSB,  which at December  31,
2007 owned and operated  approximately  19.6 million net rentable square feet of
commercial space.

FACILITIES OWNED BY CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
- -----------------------------------------

     In addition to our direct ownership of 1,504 self-storage facilities in the
U.S.  and 104  self-storage  facilities  in  Europe at  December  31,  2007,  we
consolidate 45 entities that in aggregate own 480 self-storage facilities in the
U.S.  and 70  self-storage  facilities  in Europe.  Because  of our  controlling
interest in each of these entities, we consolidate the assets, liabilities,  and
results of operations of these entities in our financial statements.

     Through  the  Shurgard  Merger  in 2006,  we  acquired  two  joint  venture
entities: First Shurgard and Second Shurgard. These joint ventures were expected
to develop or acquire up to approximately 75 self-storage  facilities in Europe.
Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in each of these ventures. We have determined
that First Shurgard and Second Shurgard are each Variable Interest Entities, and
that we are the primary  beneficiary.  Accordingly,  First  Shurgard  and Second
Shurgard have been consolidated in our consolidated  financial  statements since
the acquisition of Shurgard.  See Notes 2 and 10 to our  consolidated  financial
statements included elsewhere in this report for further discussion of the joint
ventures acquired in the merger with Shurgard.

     On September 5, 2006, we informed our joint  venture  partner in both First
Shurgard and Second  Shurgard of our  intention to purchase its interest in both
First  Shurgard and Second  Shurgard,  pursuant to an "exit  procedure"  that we
believe is provided for in the respective agreements.  Our joint venture partner
currently contests whether we have the right to purchase its interest under this
procedure  and,  accordingly,  it is uncertain as to whether we will acquire its
interest  pursuant  to  these  provisions.  On  January  17,  2007,  we filed an
arbitration  request  to  compel  arbitration  of the  matter.  The  arbitration
proceedings are currently scheduled to begin on June 30, 2008.

FACILITIES OWNED BY UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
- -------------------------------------------

     At December 31, 2007, we had ownership interests in PSB and certain limited
partnerships (collectively the "Unconsolidated Entities") owning an aggregate of
28  self-storage  facilities.  We do not have a  controlling  interest  in these
entities,  and as a result we do not  consolidate the accounts of these entities
for financial  reporting  purposes and we account for such investments using the
equity method. PSB, which files financial  statements with the SEC, has debt and
other   obligations  that  are  not  included  in  our  consolidated   financial
statements.  The limited partnerships owning the 28 self-storage facilities have
no  significant  amounts  of  debt  or  other  obligations.  See  Note  5 to our
consolidated  financial  statements  for the year ended  December  31,  2007 for
further  disclosure  regarding the assets,  liabilities and operating results of
the Unconsolidated Entities.

                                       12


     The following  chart sets forth,  as of December 31, 2007,  the entities in
which  we have a  controlling  interest  and the  entities  in  which  we have a
minority interest:




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subsidiaries (Consolidated Entities)            Entities in which we have
         of the Company                             a Minority Interest (Unconsolidated Entities)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    
Capital Hill Partners, A Limited Partnership            Public Storage Alameda, Ltd.  (5)
Carson Storage Partners, Ltd.                           Public Storage Glendale Freeway, Ltd. (10)
Carson Storage Ventures                                 Metropublic Storage Fund (11)
Connecticut Storage Fund                                PS Business Parks, Inc.  (12)
Del Amo Storage Partners, Ltd.                          Public Storage Crescent Fund, Ltd. (13)
Downey Storage Partners, Ltd.  (1)                      PSAF Acquisition Partners, Ltd.
Huntington Beach Storage Partners, Ltd.                 Shurgard-Freeman Franklin/Rivergate JV
Monterey Park Properties, Ltd.  (2)                     Shurgard-Freeman Hermitage JV
PS Orangeco Partnerships, Inc.                          Shurgard-Freeman Hickory Hollow JV
PS Partners, Ltd.                                       Shurgard-Freeman Medical Center JV
PS Partners VIII, Ltd.                                  Shurgard-Freeman Stones River JV
PS Texas Holdings, II, Ltd.
Public Storage Properties IV, Ltd. (3)
Public Storage Properties V, Ltd. (4)
PSA Institutional Partners, L.P.
PS HKBF, LLC
Public Storage Euro Fund III, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage Euro Fund IV, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage Euro Fund V, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage Euro Fund VI, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage Euro Fund VII, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage Euro Fund VIII, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage Euro Fund IX, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage Euro Fund X, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage Euro Fund XI, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage Euro Fund XII, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage Euro Fund XIII, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage German Fund II, Ltd. (5)
Public Storage Institutional Fund
Public Storage Institutional Fund III
Public Storage Partners, Ltd. (6)
Public Storage Partners II, Ltd. (7)
Public Storage Properties, Ltd. (8)
Secure Mini-Storage
Shurgard/Canyon Park Self Storage, Ltd.
Shurgard Resco LLC
Shurgard Resco II, LLC
Shurgard Resco III, LLC
Shurgard TRC Self Storage Development LLC
STOR-Re Mutual Insurance Company, Inc.
Storage Trust Properties, L.P.
Van Nuys Storage Partners, Ltd.  (9)
Whittier Storage Partners, Ltd.
First Shurgard SPRL
Second Shurgard SPRL




     (1)  B. Wayne  Hughes owns  approximately  2.8% of the limited  partnership
          interest of this entity.
     (2)  B. Wayne  Hughes owns  approximately  4.4% of the limited  partnership
          interest of this entity.
     (3)  The Hughes Family owns 20% of the general partner  interests and 15.5%
          of the limited partnership interests of this entity.
     (4)  The Hughes Family owns 20% of the general partner  interests and 11.4%
          of the limited partnership interests of this entity.
     (5)  B. Wayne Hughes owns approximately 20% of the general partner interest
          of these entities.

                                       13



     (6)  The Hughes Family owns approximately  24.3% of the limited partnership
          interest of this entity.
     (7)  The Hughes Family owns approximately  11.9% of the limited partnership
          interest of this entity.
     (8)  The Hughes Family owns 20% of the general partner  interests and 30.5%
          of the limited partnership interests of this entity.
     (9)  B. Wayne Hughes owns  approximately  17.4% of the limited  partnership
          interest of this entity.
     (10) B. Wayne  Hughes is a general  partner in this entity and owns a 0.02%
          equity interest.
     (11) B.  Wayne  Hughes  is a general  partner  of this  entity,  and has no
          economic interest.
     (12) B. Wayne  Hughes owns  approximately  0.5% of the common  shares of PS
          Business Parks, Inc.
     (13) B. Wayne Hughes owns  approximately  17.9% of the general  partnership
          interest of this entity.

PROHIBITED INVESTMENTS AND ACTIVITIES
- -------------------------------------

     Our Bylaws  prohibit us from  purchasing  properties in which the Company's
officers  or trustees  have an  interest,  or from  selling  properties  to such
persons,  unless the  transactions are approved by a majority of the independent
trustees and are fair to the Company  based on an  independent  appraisal.  This
Bylaw provision may be changed with  shareholder  approval.  See "Limitations on
Debt" below for other restrictions in the Bylaws.

BORROWINGS
- ----------

     We have a revolving  credit  agreement  (the  "Credit  Agreement")  with an
aggregate  limit  with  respect  to  borrowings  and  letters  of credit of $300
million,  with a maturity  date of March 27, 2012.  Amounts  drawn on the Credit
Agreement bear an annual interest rate ranging from the London Interbank Offered
Rate  ("LIBOR")  plus 0.35% to LIBOR plus 1.00%  depending on our credit ratings
(LIBOR plus 0.35% at December 31, 2007).  In addition,  we are required to pay a
quarterly facility fee ranging from 0.10% per annum to 0.25% per annum depending
on our  credit  ratings  (0.10%  per  annum at  December  31,  2007).  We had no
outstanding  borrowings  on our Credit  Agreement  at  December  31,  2007 or at
February 28, 2008.

     The Credit Agreement  includes various  covenants,  the more significant of
which require us to (i) maintain a leverage  ratio (as defined  therein) of less
than 0.55 to 1.00,  (ii)  maintain  certain  fixed charge and interest  coverage
ratios  (as  defined  therein)  of not  less  than  1.5 to 1.0 and  1.75 to 1.0,
respectively,  and (iii)  maintain  a minimum  total  shareholders'  equity  (as
defined  therein).  We were in  compliance  with  all  covenants  of the  Credit
Agreement at December 31, 2007.

     At December 31, 2007, we had (i) $410.9 million of domestic unsecured notes
payable, (ii) $236.9 million of domestic mortgage notes secured by facilities in
the U.S., (iii) $376.7 million of notes payable secured by facilities located in
Europe and (iv) capital lease liabilities totaling $7.3 million.

     The $376.7 million in notes payable secured by facilities located in Europe
cannot be prepaid at this time because they are held by two joint  ventures that
require our joint venture partner's (same partner in each joint venture) consent
to  prepay.  We are  currently  unwilling  to  prepay  the other  notes  payable
outstanding because of significant  prepayment  penalties that would be required
at this time.

     Approximately  $189.1 million in debt owed by First Shurgard was originally
scheduled to mature in May 2008.  However,  in February 2008, under the terms of
the related credit agreement we have requested a one-year  extension of the loan
until May 2009.  Assuming  we have met our loan  covenants,  which we believe we
have met,  the lender is  required  to grant our  request.  Notwithstanding  our
expectation of receiving the requested one-year  extension,  if the extension is
not granted,  we and our joint venture  partner are required to  contribute  our
pro-rata  share of funds  necessary to repay the debt. We believe that our joint
venture partner has the intention and ability to contribute  their potential 80%
share towards repayment of this debt if it is necessary.

     Concurrent   with  the  completion  of  the  proposed   transaction  for  a
prospective  investor to acquire a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe, we will seek
to obtain a waiver from the lenders of the Second  Shurgard  credit facility for
the change in control acceleration clause contained in the credit facility.  See
Note 19 to our December 31, 2007 financial  statements  for further  information
regarding the proposed transaction involving Shurgard Europe.

     Subject to a limitation on unsecured  borrowings  in our Bylaws  (described
below),  we have broad  powers to borrow in support of our  objectives.  We have
incurred in the past, and may incur in the future, both short-term and long-term
indebtedness  to increase our funds  available  for  investment  in real estate,
capital expenditures and distributions.

                                       14




LIMITATIONS ON DEBT
- -------------------

     The Bylaws provide that the Board of Trustees shall not authorize or permit
the  incurrence of any  obligation by the Company,  which would cause our "Asset
Coverage" of our unsecured indebtedness to become less than 300%. Asset Coverage
is defined in the Bylaws as the ratio  (expressed as a percentage)  by which the
value of the total  assets (as defined in the  Bylaws) of the  Company  less the
Company's liabilities (except liabilities for unsecured borrowings) bears to the
aggregate  amount  of all  unsecured  borrowings  of  the  Company.  This  Bylaw
provision may be changed only upon a shareholder vote.

     Our Bylaws  prohibit us from issuing debt  securities in a public  offering
unless our "cash flow"  (which for this purpose  means net income,  exclusive of
extraordinary  items, plus depreciation) for the most recent 12 months for which
financial  statements are available,  adjusted to give effect to the anticipated
use of the  proceeds  from  the  proposed  sale of  debt  securities,  would  be
sufficient to pay the interest on such  securities.  This Bylaw provision may be
changed only upon a shareholder vote.

     Without the consent of holders of the  various  series of Senior  Preferred
Shares,  we may not take any action  that  would  result in a ratio of "Debt" to
"Assets" (the "Debt Ratio") in excess of 50%. As of December 31, 2007,  the Debt
Ratio was approximately  8.4%. "Debt" means the liabilities (other than "accrued
and other liabilities" and "minority  interest") that should, in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,  be reflected on our consolidated
balance  sheet at the time of  determination.  "Assets"  means our total  assets
before a reduction for accumulated depreciation and amortization that should, in
accordance with generally accepted  accounting  principles,  be reflected on the
consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination.

     Our bank and senior  unsecured debt agreements  contain  various  financial
covenants,  including  limitations on the level of indebtedness at less than 55%
of gross  asset  value  (as  defined)  and the  prohibition  of the  payment  of
dividends upon the occurrence of an event of default (as defined).

EMPLOYEES
- ---------

     We have  approximately  5,700  employees in the U.S. and Europe at December
31,  2007 who render  services  on behalf of the  Company,  primarily  personnel
engaged in property operations. None of our employees in the U.S. are covered by
a  collective  bargaining  agreement.  Two  countries  in Europe have  employees
represented through an internal  collective  bargaining council. We believe that
our relations with our employees are generally amicable.

FEDERAL INCOME TAX
- ------------------

     We believe  that we have  operated,  and intend to continue to operate,  in
such a manner as to qualify as a REIT under the  Internal  Revenue Code of 1986,
but no  assurance  can be given  that we will at all  times so  qualify.  To the
extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed, with certain
limited exceptions, on the REIT taxable income (including gains from the sale of
securities and properties) that we distribute to our shareholders.

     For federal tax purposes, our distributions to our shareholders are treated
by the  shareholders as ordinary income,  capital gains,  return of capital or a
combination  thereof.  Ordinary income  dividends to our  shareholders  will not
generally be eligible for the lower tax rates that apply to "qualified  dividend
income."

     Our  taxable  REIT  subsidiaries  will be taxed on  their  taxable  income.
Additionally,  our  subsidiaries  in Europe  are  subject  to income  tax in the
various jurisdictions in which they operate. In general,  current taxable income
in Europe has been offset by net operating loss carryforwards.

                                       15




INSURANCE
- ---------

     We believe our  properties  are adequately  insured.  Our  facilities  have
historically carried comprehensive  insurance,  including property,  earthquake,
general  liability  and  workers  compensation,  through  nationally  recognized
insurance carriers and through our captive insurance programs (described below).
Our captive insurance programs also insure affiliates of the Company.

     For  losses  incurred  prior  to  April  1,  2004,  our  captive  insurance
activities  were  conducted  through  STOR-Re  Mutual  Insurance  Company,  Inc.
("STOR-Re"),  an association captive insurance company owned by the Company, the
Consolidated  Entities,  and the  Unconsolidated  Entities.  For losses incurred
after March 31, 2004,  these  activities are conducted by an entity wholly owned
by the Company, PS Insurance Company Hawaii, Ltd. ("PSIC-H").

     The Company,  STOR-Re,  PSIC-H and its affiliates' maximum aggregate annual
exposure for losses that are below the  deductibles set forth in the third-party
insurance   contracts,   assuming   multiple   significant   events  occur,   is
approximately  $37  million.  In  addition,  if losses  exhaust the  third-party
insurers'  limit of  coverage of $75 million  for  property  coverage  including
earthquake  coverage  ((euro)25 million for Europe) and $102 million for general
liability, our exposure could be greater. These limits are higher than estimates
of maximum probable losses that could occur from individual  catastrophic events
(i.e. earthquake and wind damage) determined in recent engineering and actuarial
studies.

     Our tenant insurance program  reinsures  policies against claims for losses
to goods stored by tenants at our self-storage  facilities.  We have third-party
insurance  coverage  for claims paid  exceeding  $1,500,000  resulting  from any
individual  event,  to a limit of  $9,000,000.  At  December  31,  2007,  we had
approximately  490,000  reinsured  policies  throughout  our 2,000  self-storage
locations in the U.S.  representing  aggregate  coverage of  approximately  $1.2
billion. Our exposure to tenant insurance losses are minimal with respect to our
European operations due to third-party insurance coverage.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
         ------------

     In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you
should  consider  the risks  described  below that we believe may be material to
investors in  evaluating  the Company.  This  section  contains  forward-looking
statements,  and in  considering  these  statements,  you  should  refer  to the
qualifications  and  limitations  on our  forward-looking  statements  that  are
described in Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of Item 1.

SINCE OUR BUSINESS CONSISTS PRIMARILY OF ACQUIRING AND OPERATING REAL ESTATE, WE
ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF REAL ESTATE.

     The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate
ownership.  Since we derive  substantially  all of our income  from real  estate
operations,  we are subject to the general  risks of owning real  estate-related
assets, including:

     o    lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale;

     o    changes in general economic or local conditions;

     o    natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods;

     o    potential terrorist attacks;

     o    changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing  facilities in
          an area;

     o    the impact of environmental protection laws;

                                       16




     o    changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds
          which may  render the sale of a  nonstrategic  property  difficult  or
          unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit
          markets;

     o    increases in insurance  premiums,  property tax  assessments and other
          operating and maintenance expenses;

     o    adverse  changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and  regulations;
          and

     o    tenant and employment-related claims.

     In addition,  we self-insure certain of our property loss,  liability,  and
workers  compensation  risks for  which  other  real  estate  companies  may use
third-party  insurers.  This  results  in a higher  risk of losses  that are not
covered  by  third-party  insurance  contracts,  as  described  in Note 16 under
"Insurance  and Loss  Exposure"  to our  consolidated  financial  statements  at
December 31, 2007.

     THERE IS SIGNIFICANT  COMPETITION  AMONG  SELF-STORAGE  FACILITIES AND FROM
OTHER STORAGE ALTERNATIVES.  Most of our properties are self-storage facilities,
which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007.  Local
market  conditions will play a significant  part in how competition  will affect
us.  Competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located
from other self-storage facilities and other storage alternatives is significant
and has affected the occupancy  levels,  rental rates and operating  expenses of
some of our properties.  Any increase in availability of funds for investment in
real estate may accelerate  competition.  Further  development  of  self-storage
facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage  facilities
in the market areas in which we operate.

     WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT  ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS AND LIABILITIES.  As an owner
and  operator  of real  properties,  under  various  federal,  state  and  local
environmental  laws,  we are  required  to clean up spills or other  releases of
hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties.  Certain  environmental
laws impose liability  whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for,
the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances.  In some cases, liability may
not be limited to the value of the property.  The presence of these  substances,
or the failure to properly remediate any resulting  contamination,  whether from
environmental  or microbial  issues,  also may  adversely  affect the owner's or
operator's ability to sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its
property as collateral.

     We have  conducted  preliminary  environmental  assessments  of most of our
properties (and intend to conduct these  assessments in connection with property
acquisitions)  to  evaluate  the  environmental   condition  of,  and  potential
environmental  liabilities  associated with, our properties.  These  assessments
generally  consist  of an  investigation  of  environmental  conditions  at  the
property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis),  as well as a
review of available  information  regarding the site and publicly available data
regarding  conditions at other sites in the vicinity.  In connection  with these
property assessments,  our operations and recent property acquisitions,  we have
become aware that prior  operations  or  activities  at some  facilities or from
nearby  locations  have or may have  resulted  in  contamination  to the soil or
groundwater at these facilities.  In this regard,  some of our facilities are or
may be the subject of federal or state environmental  investigations or remedial
actions. We have obtained,  with respect to recent  acquisitions,  and intend to
obtain  with  respect to pending or future  acquisitions,  appropriate  purchase
price  adjustments or  indemnifications  that we believe are sufficient to cover
any related potential liability. Although we cannot provide any assurance, based
on the preliminary environmental assessments, we believe we have funds available
to  cover  any  liability   from   environmental   contamination   or  potential
contamination  and we are not aware of any  environmental  contamination  of our
facilities  material to our overall business,  financial condition or results of
operations.

     There has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners
and managers of rental properties relating to moisture  infiltration,  which can
result in mold or other property damage. When we receive a complaint  concerning
moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an
air quality concern exists, we implement  corrective measures in accordance with
guidelines  and  protocols  we have  developed  with the  assistance  of outside
experts.  We seek to work  proactively  with our  tenants  to  resolve  moisture
infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual  limitations on

                                       17



liability for such claims. However, we can give no assurance that material legal
claims  relating to moisture  infiltration  and the presence of, or exposure to,
mold will not arise in the future.

     DELAYS IN  DEVELOPMENT  AND  FILL-UP  OF OUR  PROPERTIES  WOULD  REDUCE OUR
PROFITABILITY.  From January 1, 2003,  through December 31, 2007, we have opened
34 newly  developed  self-storage  facilities in the U.S. and,  since August 22,
2006, 15 newly  developed  facilities in Europe.  In addition,  our  development
"pipeline"  in the United  States and Europe at December  31, 2007 consist of 43
projects  with  total  estimated  costs  of  $251  million.  We  anticipate  the
development  of these  43  projects  to be  completed  in the  next  two  years.
Construction  delays  due to  weather,  unforeseen  site  conditions,  personnel
problems,  and other factors,  as well as cost overruns,  would adversely affect
our  profitability.  Delays in the rent-up of newly developed storage space as a
result  of  competition  or  other  factors  would  also  adversely  impact  our
profitability.

     PROPERTY  TAXES CAN INCREASE AND CAUSE A DECLINE IN YIELDS ON  INVESTMENTS.
Each of our  properties is subject to real property  taxes.  These real property
taxes may  increase  in the  future as  property  tax  rates  change  and as our
properties are assessed or reassessed by tax  authorities.  Such increases could
adversely impact our profitability.

     WE MUST COMPLY WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT AND FIRE AND SAFETY
REGULATIONS, WHICH CAN REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT EXPENDITURES. All our properties must
comply with the Americans  with  Disabilities  Act and with related  regulations
(the  "ADA").  The  ADA  has  separate   compliance   requirements  for  "public
accommodations"  and  "commercial   facilities,"  but  generally  requires  that
buildings be made  accessible to persons with  disabilities.  Various state laws
impose similar  requirements.  A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state
laws could result in  government  imposed fines on us and could award damages to
individuals affected by the failure. In addition, we must operate our properties
in compliance with numerous local fire and safety  regulations,  building codes,
and other land use regulations.  Compliance with these  requirements can require
us to spend  substantial  amounts of money,  which would  reduce cash  otherwise
available  for  distribution  to  shareholders.  Failure  to comply  with  these
requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities.

     WE INCUR LIABILITY FROM TENANT AND EMPLOYMENT-RELATED  CLAIMS. From time to
time we must resolve  tenant claims and  employment-related  claims by corporate
level and field personnel.

WE GROW OUR BUSINESS PRIMARILY THROUGH  ACQUISITIONS OF EXISTING  PROPERTIES AND
ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS.

     We grow our  business  in large part  through the  acquisition  of existing
properties,   including  acquisitions  of  businesses  owned  by  other  storage
operators.  In addition to the general  risks  related to real estate  described
above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties,  we are
also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and
the integration of acquired properties into our operations.

     ANY FAILURE BY US TO MANAGE ACQUISITIONS AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS
SUCCESSFULLY  COULD NEGATIVELY  IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL  RESULTS.  As an increasing
part of our business, we acquire other self-storage facilities. We also evaluate
from time to time other  significant  transactions.  If these facilities are not
properly integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer.

     ANY FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE ACQUIRED OPERATIONS WITH OUR EXISTING
BUSINESS COULD  NEGATIVELY  IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL  RESULTS.  To fully realize any
anticipated  benefits from an  acquisition,  we must  successfully  complete the
combination  of the  businesses of Public  Storage and acquired  properties in a
manner  that  permits  cost  savings to be  realized.  It is  possible  that the
integration  process could result in a decline in occupancy and/or rental rates,
the  disruption  of each  company's  ongoing  businesses or  inconsistencies  in
standards,   controls,   procedures,   practices,   policies  and   compensation
arrangements  that adversely affect our ability to maintain  relationships  with
tenants and  employees or to achieve  anticipated  benefits,  particularly  with
large acquisitions.

     AS A RESULT OF OUR ACQUISITION OF THE INTERNATIONAL  OPERATIONS OF SHURGARD
IN  EUROPE,  WE  ARE  EXPOSED  TO  ADDITIONAL  RISKS  RELATED  TO  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESSES.  We have  limited  experience  in  European  operations,  which  may
adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in Europe. In addition, these
operations  have specific  inherent  risks,  including  without  limitation  the
following:

     o    currency risks,  including currency  fluctuations and risks related to
          foreign currency hedging activities;

                                       18



     o    unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements;

     o    potentially adverse tax burdens;

     o    burdens   of   complying   with   different   permitting    standards,
          environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws;

     o    obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash;

     o    regional, national and local political uncertainty;

     o    economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets;

     o    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;

     o    reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; and

     o    inability to effectively  control less than wholly-owned  partnerships
          and joint ventures.

     SOME ACQUIRED PROPERTIES ARE SUBJECT TO PROPERTY TAX REAPPRAISALS WHICH MAY
INCREASE OUR PROPERTY TAX  EXPENSE.  Some of the  facilities  we acquired in the
Shurgard  Merger have been,  and will  continue to be,  subject to property  tax
reappraisal  that could increase  property tax expense and adversely  affect our
profitability.  Up to 17% of the domestic  properties  we acquired in the merger
are located in jurisdictions  that may provide for property tax reappraisal upon
a change of ownership and so may face further reassessment.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE THE CONTEMPLATED INVESTMENT BY A THIRD
PARTY TO ACQUIRE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF SHURGARD EUROPE.

     We have announced that we have entered into an agreement in principle for a
prospective  investor to acquire a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe.  However, no
binding agreement has been signed with the prospective  investor and there is no
assurance that a binding  agreement will be signed or that the transaction  will
be  completed.  We may be unable for any  reason to  finalize  negotiations  and
completion of a possible transaction involving Shurgard Europe, and there can be
no guarantee  that any  transaction  involving the  acquisition by a prospective
purchaser of an interest in Shurgard Europe will occur.

WE ARE  SUBJECT TO RISKS  RELATED TO OUR  OWNERSHIP  OF ASSETS IN JOINT  VENTURE
STRUCTURES.

     In connection with our 2006 acquisition of Shurgard,  we acquired interests
in several joint ventures that owned properties.  Joint ventures have additional
risks, including without limitation, the following:

     o    Risks related to the financial  strength,  common  business  goals and
          strategies and cooperation of the venture partner.

     o    The  inability to take some actions with respect to the joint  venture
          activities  that we may believe are  favorable,  if our joint  venture
          partner does not agree.

     o    The risk that we could lose our REIT status  based upon actions of the
          joint ventures if we are unable to effectively  control these indirect
          investments.

     o    The risk that we may not  control  the legal  entity that has title to
          the real estate.

     o    The risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold
          or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders,  or that lenders may
          view joint ventured assets as less favorable as collateral.

     o    The risk that the joint  ventures could take actions that we could not
          prevent,  which could result in negative  rating agency impacts to our
          preferred stock and debt.

     o    The risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own
          that we would otherwise deem favorable,  due to noncompete  clauses in
          our joint venture arrangements.

                                       19



     o    The risk  that we will be unable to  resolve  disputes  with our joint
          venture  partners.  We are  currently  engaged  in  legal  proceedings
          including  arbitration  and  litigation  with  certain  joint  venture
          partners in the United States and Europe.

THE  HUGHES  FAMILY  COULD  CONTROL  US  AND  TAKE  ACTIONS   ADVERSE  TO  OTHER
SHAREHOLDERS.

     At December 31, 2007,  B. Wayne  Hughes,  Chairman of the Board of Trustees
and his family (the "Hughes Family") owned  approximately 25.3% of our aggregate
outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to
own up to 47.66% of our  outstanding  common  shares.  Consequently,  the Hughes
family may or could  control  matters  submitted to a vote of our  shareholders,
including electing trustees,  amending our organizational documents,  dissolving
and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even
though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders.

CERTAIN  PROVISIONS OF MARYLAND LAW AND IN OUR  DECLARATION  OF TRUST AND BYLAWS
MAY  PREVENT  CHANGES IN  CONTROL  OR  OTHERWISE  DISCOURAGE  TAKEOVER  ATTEMPTS
BENEFICIAL TO STOCKHOLDERS.

     Maryland law limits certain business combinations and changes of control of
the  Company  unless  the Board  affirmatively  elects  not to be covered by the
statutory  provisions.  Currently,  the Board  has  opted  out of the  statutory
limitations of both statutes.  However,  the Board may in the future elect to be
covered  under  the  business  combination  provisions  and  the  control  share
acquisitions  provisions of Maryland law. The business combination provisions of
Maryland  law (in the event our Board opts to make them  applicable  to us), the
control  share  acquisition  provisions  of  Maryland  law  (if  the  applicable
provision in our bylaws is rescinded), limitations on removal of trustees in our
declaration  of  trust,  restrictions  on  the  acquisition  of  our  shares  of
beneficial  interest,  the power to issue  additional  common shares,  preferred
shares or equity  shares and the advance  notice  provisions of our bylaws could
have the effect of delaying,  deterring or preventing a transaction  or a change
in control that might  involve a premium  price for holders of the common shares
or might otherwise be in their best interest. Certain provisions of Maryland law
permit our board of trustees,  without  shareholder  approval and  regardless of
what is provided in our  declaration of trust or bylaws,  to implement  takeover
defenses that we may not yet have and to take,  or refrain from taking,  certain
other actions without those  decisions being subject to any heightened  standard
of conduct or  standard  of review as such  decisions  may be subject in certain
other jurisdictions.

     To preserve our status as a REIT under the Code,  our  declaration of trust
contains  limitations  on the number and value of shares of beneficial  interest
that any person may own. These ownership limitations generally limit the ability
of a person,  other than the Hughes  Family (as  defined in our  declaration  of
trust)  and other  than  "designated  investment  entities"  (as  defined in our
declaration of trust),  to own more than 3% of our outstanding  common shares or
9.9% of the  outstanding  shares of any class or series of  preferred  or equity
shares,  in  each  case,  in  value  or  number  of  shares,  whichever  is more
restrictive,  unless an  exemption  is granted by our board of  trustees.  These
limitations could discourage,  delay or prevent a transaction involving a change
in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees.

IF WE FAILED TO QUALIFY  AS A REIT,  WE WOULD BE TAXED AS A  CORPORATION,  WHICH
WOULD SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS.

     Investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a REIT.  REITs
are subject to a range of complex  organizational and operational  requirements.
As a REIT, we must distribute with respect to each year at least 90% of our REIT
taxable  income  to our  shareholders  (which  may  take  into  account  certain
dividends paid in the subsequent year).  Other  restrictions apply to our income
and assets. Our REIT status is also dependent upon the ongoing  qualification of
our affiliate, PSB, as a REIT, as a result of our substantial ownership interest
in that company.

     For any  taxable  year that we fail to  qualify as a REIT and are unable to
avail ourselves of certain savings provisions set forth in the Code, we would be
subject  to  federal  income tax at the  regular  corporate  rates on all of our
taxable income,  whether or not we make any  distributions to our  shareholders.
Those taxes would reduce the amount of cash  available for  distribution  to our

                                       20



shareholders or for reinvestment  and would adversely affect our earnings.  As a
result,  our failure to qualify as a REIT  during any taxable  year could have a
material  adverse  effect  upon us and  our  shareholders.  Furthermore,  unless
certain relief  provisions  apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status
again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we
fail to qualify.

     We have also assumed, based on public filings, that Shurgard qualified as a
REIT.  However, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we generally would have
succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities  (including the significant
tax  liability  that  would  have  resulted  from the  deemed  sale of assets by
Shurgard pursuant to the merger).

WE MAY PAY SOME TAXES, REDUCING CASH AVAILABLE FOR SHAREHOLDERS.

     Even if we  qualify  as a REIT for  federal  income  tax  purposes,  we are
required to pay some federal,  foreign,  state and local taxes on our income and
property.  Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate  subsidiaries of the Company
(including certain subsidiaries acquired in connection with the Shurgard merger)
have  elected to be treated as "taxable  REIT  subsidiaries"  of the Company for
federal income tax purposes.  A taxable REIT  subsidiary is taxable as a regular
corporation and is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us
in excess of a certain  amount.  In  addition,  if we receive or accrue  certain
amounts  and  the  underlying  economic  arrangements  among  our  taxable  REIT
subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar  arrangements  among unrelated
parties, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of
amounts deemed  reasonable  between  unrelated  parties.  To the extent that the
Company or any taxable  REIT  subsidiary  is required to pay  federal,  foreign,
state or local  taxes,  we will have less cash  available  for  distribution  to
shareholders.

WE HAVE BECOME INCREASINGLY  DEPENDENT UPON AUTOMATED PROCESSES AND THE INTERNET
AND ARE FACED WITH SECURITY SYSTEM RISKS.

     We have  become  increasingly  centralized  and  dependent  upon  automated
information technology processes.  As a result, we could be severely impacted by
a catastrophic occurrence,  such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack. In
addition,  a portion of our business operations are conducted over the Internet,
increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system  failures and disruptions
of operations.  Experienced  computer  programmers  may be able to penetrate our
network security and misappropriate our confidential information,  create system
disruptions or cause shutdowns.

WE HAVE NO  INTEREST  IN CANADIAN  SELF-STORAGE  FACILITIES  OWNED BY THE HUGHES
FAMILY.

     The Hughes Family has ownership interests in, and operates, 48 self-storage
facilities  in Canada under the name  "Public  Storage." We currently do not own
any interests in these  facilities  nor do we own any  facilities in Canada.  We
have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the  corporation
engaged in the operation of the self-storage  facilities in Canada if the Hughes
family or the  corporation  agrees to sell them.  However,  we have no ownership
interest in the operations of this  corporation,  have no right to acquire their
stock or assets unless the Hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit
from the profits and increases in value of the Canadian self-storage facilities.

     Prior  to  December  31,  2003,  Company  personnel  were  engaged  in  the
supervision  and  the  operation  of  these   properties  and  provided  certain
administrative  services for the Canadian  owners,  and certain other  services,
primarily tax services,  with respect to certain other Hughes Family  interests.
The  Hughes  Family  and the  Canadian  owners  reimbursed  us at cost for these
services in the amount of $542,499 with respect to the Canadian  operations  and
$151,063 for other services during 2003 (in U.S. dollars).  There were conflicts
of interest in allocating time of our personnel between Company properties,  the
Canadian properties,  and certain other Hughes Family interests.  The sharing of
Company  personnel with the Canadian  entities was  substantially  eliminated by
December 31, 2003.

     Through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of
goods stored by tenants in the  self-storage  facilities in Canada.  We acquired
the tenant insurance business on December 31, 2001 through our acquisition of PS
Insurance  Company,  or PSICH.  For the years ended  December 31, 2007 and 2006,
PSICH received  $906,000 and $989,000,  respectively,  in  reinsurance  premiums
attributable to the Canadian  Facilities.  Since PSICH's right to provide tenant
reinsurance to the Canadian  Facilities may be qualified,  there is no assurance
that these premiums will continue.

                                       21



INCREASES IN INTEREST RATES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK.

     One of the factors that influence the market price of our common shares and
our other  securities  is the annual  rate of  distributions  that we pay on the
securities,  as compared with interest  rates. An increase in interest rates may
lead purchasers of REIT shares to demand higher annual distribution rates, which
could  adversely  affect  the  market  price  of our  common  shares  and  other
securities.

TERRORIST  ATTACKS  AND THE  POSSIBILITY  OF WIDER  ARMED  CONFLICT  MAY HAVE AN
ADVERSE  IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS  AND  OPERATING  RESULTS AND COULD  DECREASE THE
VALUE OF OUR ASSETS.

     Terrorist  attacks and other acts of  violence  or war,  such as those that
took place on September 11, 2001,  could have a material  adverse  impact on our
business and operating results. There can be no assurance that there will not be
further  terrorist  attacks against the U.S., the European  Community,  or their
businesses or interests.  Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or
more of our properties could  significantly  affect our ability to operate those
properties and thereby impair our operating  results.  Further,  we may not have
insurance  coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack.  Such insurance may
not be available,  or if it is available and we decide to obtain such  terrorist
coverage,  the cost for the insurance may be significant in  relationship to the
risk  overall.  In  addition,  the adverse  effects  that such  violent acts and
threats of future attacks could have on the U.S.  economy could similarly have a
material  adverse  effect on our  business and results of  operations.  Finally,
further  terrorist  acts  could  cause  the  U.S.  to enter  into a wider  armed
conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results.

DEVELOPMENTS IN CALIFORNIA MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS.

     We are headquartered  in, and approximately  one-fifth of our properties in
the U.S. are located in  California.  California is facing  budgetary  problems.
Action that may be taken in response to these  problems,  such as an increase in
property taxes on commercial properties, could adversely impact our business and
results of operations. In addition, we could be adversely impacted by efforts to
reenact  legislation  mandating  medical  insurance  for employees of California
businesses and members of their families.

ITEM 1B