Item 1A, "Risk  Factors" and in our other  filings  with the  Securities  and
Exchange Commission. ("SEC").

GENERAL
- -------

     Public  Storage  was  organized  in  1980.   Effective  June  1,  2007,  we
reorganized  Public Storage,  Inc. into Public  Storage,  a Maryland real estate
investment trust (referred to herein as "the Company",  "the Trust", "we", "us",
or  "our").   Our  principal   business   activities  include  the  acquisition,
development,  ownership and  operation of  self-storage  facilities  which offer
storage spaces for lease,  generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and
business use. We are the largest owner and operator of  self-storage  facilities
in the United States ("U.S."), and we have an equity interest in what we believe
is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Europe.

     We currently  operate within three reportable  segments:  (i) self-storage,
(ii) Shurgard Europe and (iii) ancillary. These segments are organized generally
based upon their operating  characteristics.  The self-storage segment comprises
the direct and indirect  ownership,  development,  and operation of  traditional
storage  facilities in the U.S. Our Shurgard Europe segment comprises our equity
interest in the  self-storage  and associated  activities in seven  countries in
Western  Europe owned by Shurgard  Europe,  consisting of 180 facilities and 9.5
million net rentable  square feet. Our ancillary  segment  represents all of our
other activities, which are reported as a group, including our (i) containerized
storage operations,  (ii) commercial property  operations,  directly and through
our 46% ownership interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. ("PSB"), a publicly traded
REIT whose common stock trades on the New York Stock  Exchange  under the symbol
"PSB" (as of December 31, 2008, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million net rentable
square feet of  commercial  space),  (iii) tenant  reinsurance  operations  (the
reinsurance  of  policies  against  losses  to goods  stored by  tenants  in our
self-storage  facilities),  (iv) retail operations conducted at our self-storage
facilities including  merchandise sales and truck rentals, and (v) management of
self-storage  facilities  owned by  third-party  owners and domestic  facilities
owned by the  Unconsolidated  Entities.  See Note 11 to our  December  31,  2008
consolidated  financial  statements for further  discussion  with respect to our
segments.

                                       3


     We significantly  increased the scope and scale of our operations on August
22, 2006, when we merged with Shurgard Storage Centers, Inc. ("Shurgard" and the
merger  referred to as the "Shurgard  Merger"),  a REIT which had an interest in
487  self-storage  facilities  located in the U.S.  and an  interest in Shurgard
Europe's 160 facilities.  On March 31, 2008, we entered into a transaction  with
an  institutional   investor  (the  transaction   referred  to  as  the  "Europe
Transaction")  whereby  the  investor  acquired  a 51%  equity  interest  in our
European operations ("Shurgard Europe").  Shurgard Europe held substantially all
of our  operations  in Europe.  Since March 31, 2008,  we own the  remaining 49%
interest and are the managing  member of Shurgard  European  Holdings LLC, a new
joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe's operations.

     At December 31, 2008, we had direct and indirect equity  interests in 2,012
self-storage facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the
"Public  Storage" brand name containing  approximately  127 million net rentable
square feet of space,  and 181 self-storage  facilities  located in Europe which
operate under the "Shurgard Storage Centers" brand name containing approximately
ten million net rentable  square feet of space. We also have direct and indirect
equity  interests  in  approximately  21 million  net  rentable  square  feet of
commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S.  primarily  operated under the
"PS Business Parks" brand name.

     For all  taxable  years  subsequent  to 1980,  we  qualified  and intend to
continue to qualify as a real estate  investment  trust ("REIT"),  as defined in
Section 856 of the Internal  Revenue Code. As a REIT, we do not incur federal or
significant state tax on that portion of our taxable income which is distributed
to our shareholders,  provided that we meet certain tests. To the extent that we
continue  to qualify as a REIT,  we will not be  subject  to tax,  with  certain
limited   exceptions,   on  the  taxable  income  that  is  distributed  to  our
shareholders.

     We have reported annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial
statements certified by our independent  registered public accountants.  We have
also  reported  quarterly  to the SEC on Form  10-Q,  which  includes  unaudited
financial statements with such filings. We expect to continue such reporting.

     Our website is located at  www.publicstorage.com,  where we make available,
free of charge our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,  quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
and current  reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed
with or furnished to the SEC.

THE IMPACT OF CURRENT ECONOMIC FACTORS
- --------------------------------------

     The recession being experienced in the U.S. and Europe is having a negative
impact  upon our  business,  and we have  responded  with  what we  believe  are
short-term revisions to our long-term growth strategies.

     Operationally, our occupancies and rental rates have come under pressure as
demand for self-storage space has softened. We have responded by reducing rental
rates, increasing promotional discounts, and increasing our marketing activities
to stimulate additional demand for storage.

     We have essentially shut down our development activities,  both in the U.S.
and Europe due to the risk inherent in  development,  uncertain  consumer demand
for when such facilities open for operation,  and to preserve  capital.  We have
increased our yield  requirements  with respect to the  acquisition  of existing
self-storage  facilities,  in the  expectation  that more  distressed  sales may
become  available.  We have taken advantage of capital market  dislocations with
respect to our own securities through the repurchase of our own preferred shares
and our unsecured debt. Although capital markets are constrained and in flux, we
believe that we are well-positioned with significant cash balances on hand, have
an expectation of continued  internally generated cash flow that can be used for
reinvestment,  and  relatively  modest debt  maturities  as described in Item 7.
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." Current capital market conditions
have essentially precluded us from issuing preferred securities since late 2007,
which has been our traditional source of external capital for growth.

                                       4


     While we believe  that these  actions are the  appropriate  response to the
existing  economic  environment,  and that they will  best  position  us to take
advantage  of the  current  environment  in the  short-term  and then resume our
traditional  growth  strategy in the future,  there can be no assurance  that we
will be able to do so.

     See "GROWTH AND  INVESTMENT  STRATEGIES"  and  "FINANCING  OF THE COMPANY'S
GROWTH  STRATEGIES"  below  for  more  information   regarding  our  traditional
long-term strategy to grow the cash flows and equity values of the Company.

COMPETITION
- -----------

     Self-storage  generally  draws  customers from residents  within a three to
five mile radius.  Many of our facilities  operate within three to five miles of
well-located and  well-managed  competitors and seek the same group of customers
through  many of the same  marketing  channels  we use,  including  yellow  page
advertising,  Internet advertising, as well as signage and banners. As a result,
competition  is  significant  and affects the  occupancy  levels,  rental rates,
rental income and operating expenses of our facilities.

     While  competition  is  significant,   the  self-storage  industry  remains
fragmented in the U.S. We believe that we own  approximately 6% of the aggregate
self-storage square footage in the U.S., and that the five largest  self-storage
operators in the U.S. own only 11% of the  aggregate  self-storage  space in the
U.S.,  with the  remaining  89% owned by  numerous  private  regional  and local
operators.  This market fragmentation enhances the advantage of our economies of
scale  relative to other  operators  (see  "Business  Attributes  - Economies of
Scale"  below),  and could  result in potential  growth in our platform  through
acquisitions over the long term.

     In seeking investments,  we compete with a wide variety of institutions and
other  investors.  The amount of funds  available  for real  estate  investments
greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by
extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments.

BUSINESS ATTRIBUTES
- -------------------

     We believe that we possess several primary business  attributes that permit
us to compete effectively:

     CENTRALIZED  INFORMATION NETWORKS: Our facilities are part of comprehensive
centralized  reporting and information networks which enable the management team
to identify  changing market  conditions and operating trends as well as analyze
customer data, and quickly change our properties' pricing and promotional mix on
an automated basis.

     NATIONAL TELEPHONE  RESERVATION CENTER: We operate a centralized  telephone
reservation system,  which provides added customer service and helps to maximize
utilization  of  available  self-storage  space.  Customers  calling  either the
toll-free telephone referral system, (800) 44-STORE, or a storage facility,  are
directed to the national reservation system. A representative discusses with the
customer space requirements, price and location preferences and also informs the
customer  of  other  products  and  services  provided  by the  Company  and its
subsidiaries.  We believe  that the  centralized  telephone  reservation  system
enhances our ability to market  storage  space in the U.S.  relative to handling
these calls at individual  properties,  because it allows us to more effectively
offer all spaces at all  facilities in the vicinity of a customer and to provide
higher-quality  selling efforts through dedicated sales specialists trained in a
central  location.  We also provide  customers the  opportunity  to review space
availability    and   make    reservations    online    through   our   website,
www.publicstorage.com.

     ECONOMIES OF SCALE: We are the largest  provider of  self-storage  space in
the U.S. As of December 31, 2008, we operated 2,012  self-storage  facilities in
which we had an  interest  and  managed  32  self-storage  facilities  for third
parties.  These  facilities  are generally  located in major  markets  within 38
states in the U.S. At December  31, 2008,  we had over one million  self-storage
spaces rented.  The size and scope of our operations  have enabled us to achieve
high  operating  margins  and a low level of  administrative  costs  relative to
revenues, through the centralization of many functions with specialists, such as
facility maintenance,  employee  compensation and benefits programs,  pricing of
our  product,  as well as the  development  and  documentation  of  standardized

                                       5


operating  procedures.  We also  believe  that our  major  market  concentration
provides  managerial  efficiencies  stemming  from  having  a  large  number  of
facilities in close proximity to each other.

     We can economically purchase large, prominent,  well-placed yellow page ads
that allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller operators.  We
are also able to purchase and bid aggressively for multiple-keyword  advertising
on  national  Internet  search  engines.  In  addition,  we are  able to  market
efficiently  using television as a media source. We believe that our competitors
cannot use television  advertising,  and cannot spend as  aggressively on yellow
page ads and internet search strategies,  because their limited concentration of
facilities does not provide a sufficient  potential customer base to justify the
high cost of such efforts.

     BRAND NAME RECOGNITION:  Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the
"Public  Storage"  brand  name,  which we  believe  is the most  recognized  and
established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S. Our storage operations
within the U.S. are conducted in major markets in 38 states,  giving us national
recognition  and  prominence.  Our  facilities  tend to be in highly visible and
heavily populated areas, improving the local awareness of our brand.

     COMPLEMENTARY ANCILLARY OPERATIONS:  Through a taxable REIT subsidiary,  we
sell  retail  items  associated  with the storage  business,  rent trucks at our
self-storage  facilities,  and reinsure  policies  issued to our tenants against
lost or damaged  goods stored by tenants in our storage  facilities.  We believe
these activities supplement and strengthen our existing self-storage business by
further meeting the needs of storage customers.

GROWTH AND INVESTMENT STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------

     As described more  specifically in "THE IMPACT OF CURRENT ECONOMIC FACTORS"
above,  our growth  strategies  have been revised in the short-run to respond to
current market conditions.

     Over the long run, our growth  strategies  have consisted of: (i) improving
the  operating  performance  of  our  existing  self-storage  properties,   (ii)
acquiring  properties  that are owned or operated  by others in the U.S.,  (iii)
developing  existing  U.S. real estate  facilities,  (iv)  participating  in the
growth of commercial  facilities owned primarily by PSB, and (v) capitalizing on
the potential growth in the European market. In addition to certain revisions to
these strategies described below, our strategy has been revised in the short-run
to take advantage of dislocation in current capital markets.

     IMPROVE THE OPERATING  PERFORMANCE  OF EXISTING  PROPERTIES:  As previously
noted,  demand for our self-storage  facilities has been negatively  impacted by
the current recession in the short run, and revenue and net operating income are
under  pressure.  Over  the  long  run we seek to  increase  the net  cash  flow
generated by our existing self-storage properties by a) regularly evaluating our
call volume,  reservation activity,  and move-in/move-out  rates for each of our
properties relative to our marketing activities, b) evaluating market supply and
demand  factors  and,  based  upon  these  analyses,   adjusting  our  marketing
activities  and  rental  rates,  c)  attempting  to  maximize  revenues  through
evaluating  the  appropriate  balance  between  occupancy,   rental  rates,  and
promotional  discounting and d) controlling  expense levels. We believe that our
property management personnel and systems,  combined with our national telephone
reservation  system and media advertising  programs will continue to enhance our
ability to meet these goals.  See  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis" below
for further information  regarding our expectation in the short-run with respect
to our operating results.

     ACQUIRE PROPERTIES OWNED OR OPERATED BY OTHERS IN THE U.S.: We believe that
recent  dislocations in the financial markets may provide more opportunities for
the acquisition of facilities from distressed sellers who cannot refinance their
existing  debt as it comes due,  and who face  reduced cash flows as a result of
the current difficult operating  environment and reduced self-storage demand. We
believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially  all of the major markets
in  the  U.S.   enhances   our  ability  to  identify   attractive   acquisition
opportunities  and capitalize on the overall  fragmentation  in the self-storage
industry.  Data  on the  rental  rates  and  occupancy  levels  of our  existing
facilities,  which are often  located  in  proximity  to  potential  acquisition
candidates,  provide us an advantage in evaluating  the potential of acquisition
opportunities.

                                       6


     DEVELOPMENT  OF  REAL  ESTATE  FACILITIES:  Notwithstanding  the  long-term
opportunity  in the  development  of new  facilities  and the  expansion  of our
existing facilities,  we have substantially  reduced our development pipeline at
December  31,  2008  in  light  of  current  capital  market  conditions  and in
evaluating  demand for new  self-storage  space,  to five  projects to expand or
repackage  our  existing  facilities  in the  U.S.,  for an  aggregate  cost  of
approximately  $27.1  million,  which  will add an  aggregate  of  approximately
189,000  net  rentable  square  feet.  In the  short-term  we do not  expect any
significant new investment in such development  activities.  Shurgard Europe has
similarly  reduced its development  activities (see "Capitalize on the Potential
for Growth in Europe" below).

     We have a substantial  number of facilities in the U.S. that were developed
and  constructed  20  or  more  years  ago  based  upon  local  competitive  and
demographic  conditions  in place at that time.  Population  densities and other
such conditions may have changed since then,  providing  opportunities to expand
and further invest into our existing self-storage locations, either by improving
the quality of the existing units by adding  amenities such as climate  control,
or by  expanding  these  facilities  at a per square foot cost that is typically
less than the cost incurred in developing a new location.  Historically, we have
also allocated a material  portion of our  investment to the  development of new
self-storage locations.

     PARTICIPATE IN THE GROWTH OF COMMERCIAL  FACILITIES  PRIMARILY  THROUGH OUR
OWNERSHIP IN PS BUSINESS PARKS,  INC.: At December 31, 2008, we had a 46% common
equity  interest  in PSB  and  its  operating  partnership  which  consisted  of
5,418,273 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited  partnership units in the
Operating  Partnership.  The limited  partnership  units are  convertible at our
option,  subject to certain  conditions,  on a one-for-one basis into PSB common
stock. At December 31, 2008, PSB owned and operated  approximately  19.6 million
net rentable  square feet of  commercial  space  located in the U.S.  located in
eight states. During 2008, the recession in the U.S. impacted PSB resulting in a
decrease in new rental rates over expiring rents, as well as declining occupancy
levels in the last six months of 2008.  It is uncertain  what impact the current
recession will have on PSB's ability to maintain  current  occupancy  levels and
rental rents. PSB may continue to experience  downward pressure on its occupancy
levels and rental rates.

     CAPITALIZE  ON THE  POTENTIAL  FOR GROWTH IN EUROPE:  On March 31, 2008, we
entered into a  transaction  with an  institutional  investor  (the  transaction
referred to as the "Europe  Transaction")  whereby the  investor  acquired a 51%
interest in our European operations  ("Shurgard  Europe").  Shurgard Europe held
substantially all of our operations in Europe.  Since March 31, 2008, we own the
remaining 49% interest and are the managing member of Shurgard European Holdings
LLC, a new joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe's operations.

     Although  many  European  consumers  are not yet aware of the  self-storage
concept,  they tend to live in more densely  populated  areas in smaller  living
spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe,  should make  self-storage an
attractive  option as product  knowledge and availability  grows. Most Europeans
are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary  service  provided
by moving companies, and more consumer familiarity could result in a significant
increase in demand in the long-term.

     In the  longer  term,  as a result of the low  density of  self-storage  in
Europe  relative to population as compared to the U.S., we believe that there is
significant  growth potential in Europe,  even if the density of self-storage in
Europe does not ultimately  approach the levels in the U.S. However,  ultimately
capitalizing on this opportunity will require a significant amount of capital to
develop new self-storage facilities in what could be a process extending through
a few decades in time frame, similar to the trajectory of the U.S.  self-storage
industry since its inception in the mid 1960's.

     Shurgard Europe, and its ability and wherewithal to take advantage of these
opportunities,  has  been  impacted  by  the  same  economic  trends  that  have
negatively impacted our domestic self-storage operations and capital markets. In
addition to the  operating  uncertainties  that we face,  Shurgard  Europe faces
refinancing  risk,  as  approximately  (euro)250  million  of debt owed by joint
ventures matures in the first half of 2009 and approximately $552.4 million in a
loan payable to us becomes due in March 2010.  Accordingly,  Shurgard Europe has
taken  many of the same  steps  that we have  domestically,  by  curtailing  its
development  activities.  At such time that public  market  capital or bank debt
becomes available to Shurgard Europe to refinance its existing debt, development
and growth may recommence.

                                       7


     TAKE ADVANTAGE OF DISLOCATION IN CAPITAL MARKETS:  At December 31, 2008, we
have  cash  balances  on  hand  of  approximately  $680.7  million.  Due  to the
aforementioned turbulent credit and equity markets, we believe that there may be
opportunities  for  the  acquisition  of our own  outstanding  debt  and  equity
securities.  During  November and December 2008, we  repurchased  $103.2 million
(liquidation  value) of our  preferred  securities,  for an  aggregate  of $66.9
million,  and 367,000  shares of our Equity Shares,  Series A for  approximately
$7.7 million.  On February 12, 2009, in accordance  with an "any and all" tender
offer,  we acquired  $110.2 million (face amount) of our Senior  Unsecured Debt.
Any future such  transactions  will depend upon our  evaluation of the return of
such investments relative to our other investment alternatives.  There can be no
assurance that any future such transactions will occur.

FINANCING OF THE COMPANY'S GROWTH STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------------------

     IMPACT OF CURRENT  CAPITAL  MARKETS:  As described  above in "The Impact of
Current Economic Factors",  one of our traditional  sources of external capital,
the issuance of preferred securities,  has not been available to us for issuance
since  late  2007.  While we expect  this  source to be  available  to us in the
long-run,  there can be no  assurance  as to when such  source of  capital  will
become available to us again.

     OVERVIEW OF  FINANCING  STRATEGY:  Over the past three years we have funded
substantially all the cash portion of our acquisition and development activities
with permanent  capital  (predominantly  retained cash flow and the net proceeds
from the issuance of  preferred  securities).  We have elected to use  preferred
securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our
preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional
debt,  because of certain  benefits  described in  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity  and Capital
Resources." Our present  intention is to continue to finance  substantially  all
our growth with  permanent  capital.  Presently as a result of the disruption in
the capital markets, we believe our ability to raise additional capital,  either
through the issuance of preferred or common  securities,  has been significantly
impaired.   Accordingly,  until  such  time  that  the  capital  markets  become
favorable,  our strategy is to finance our activities with internally  generated
cash flows,  cash on-hand ($680.7 million at December 31, 2008) , and borrowings
on our revolving line of credit.

     BORROWING:  We have in the past  used our $300  million  revolving  line of
credit described below under "Borrowings" as temporary "bridge"  financing,  and
repaid those amounts with  permanent  capital.  Our debt  outstanding  currently
represents debt that was assumed either in connection with property acquisitions
or in connection with the Shurgard Merger. When we have assumed such debt in the
past, we have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of
the loan terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made
it economically disadvantageous to prepay. While it is not our present intention
to issue additional debt as a long-term financing strategy, we have broad powers
to borrow in furtherance of our objectives  without a vote of our  shareholders.
These powers are subject to a limitation  on unsecured  borrowings in our Bylaws
described in "Limitations on Borrowings" below.

     ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES  IN EXCHANGE FOR  PROPERTY:  We have issued both our
common  and  preferred   securities  in  exchange  for  real  estate  and  other
investments  in the last three years,  most  notably the issuance of  38,913,187
common shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger in 2006.  Future  issuances
will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market  conditions at the
time, including the market prices of our equity securities.

     JOINT  VENTURE  FINANCING:   We  have  historically  formed  and  may  form
additional  joint ventures to facilitate the funding of future  developments  or
acquisitions.

     DISPOSITION OF PROPERTIES:  We  historically  have disposed of self-storage
facilities only because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell. We
do  not  presently  intend  to  sell  any  significant  number  of  self-storage
facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not.

                                       8


INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE ENTITIES
- ---------------------------------------------------

     INVESTMENT   POLICIES  AND  PRACTICES  WITH  RESPECT  TO  OUR  INVESTMENTS:
Following  are our  investment  practices and policies  which,  though we do not
anticipate any significant  alteration,  can be changed by our Board of Trustees
without a shareholder vote:

o    Our  investments  primarily  consist of direct  ownership  of  self-storage
     properties (the nature of our self-storage  properties is described in Item
     2,  "Properties"),  as well as  partial  interests  in  entities  that  own
     self-storage properties.

o    Our  partial  ownership  interests  primarily  reflect  general and limited
     partnership interests in entities that own self-storage facilities that are
     managed by us under the "Public Storage" brand name in the U.S., as well as
     storage  facilities  managed in Europe under the "Shurgard Storage Centers"
     brand name which are owned by Shurgard Europe.

o    Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of
     properties  from third  parties) will include  common  equity  interests in
     entities in which we already have an interest.

o    To a lesser  extent,  we have interests in existing  commercial  properties
     (described in Item 2, "Properties"),  containing  commercial and industrial
     rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.

FACILITIES OWNED BY CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
- -----------------------------------------

     In addition to our direct ownership of 1,523 self-storage facilities in the
U.S. and one self-storage facility in London,  England at December 31, 2008 with
an  aggregate of  approximately  98 million net  rentable  square feet,  we have
controlling indirect interests in entities that own 470 self-storage  facilities
in the U.S. with  approximately 28 million net rentable square feet. In addition
to our self-storage  space, we own approximately 1.5 million net rentable square
feet of  commercial  space  located  adjacent  to  certain  of our  self-storage
facilities.  Because of our controlling  interest in each of these entities,  we
consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these entities
in our financial statements.

FACILITIES OWNED BY UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
- -------------------------------------------

     At December 31, 2008,  we had  ownership  interests in a) PSB,  which owned
approximately  19.6  million net  rentable  square feet of  commercial  space at
December 31, 2008,  b) Shurgard  Europe,  which had  ownership  interests in 180
facilities,  and c)  certain  limited  partnerships  owning an  aggregate  of 19
self-storage  facilities.  Collectively  these  entities  are referred to as the
"Unconsolidated Entities."

     PSB, which files financial  statements  with the SEC, and Shurgard  Europe,
have  debt and  other  obligations  that are not  included  in our  consolidated
financial  statements.  The  limited  partnerships  owning  the 19  self-storage
facilities have no significant amounts of debt or other obligations.  See Note 5
to  our  December  31,  2008  consolidated   financial  statements  for  further
disclosure  regarding  the  assets,  liabilities  and  operating  results of the
Unconsolidated Entities.

LIMITATIONS ON DEBT
- -------------------

     Without the consent of holders of the  various  series of Senior  Preferred
Shares,  we may not take any action  that  would  result in a ratio of "Debt" to
"Assets" (the "Debt Ratio") in excess of 50%. As of December 31, 2008,  the Debt
Ratio was approximately  5.2%. "Debt" means the liabilities (other than "accrued
and other liabilities" and "minority  interest") that should, in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,  be reflected on our consolidated
balance  sheet at the time of  determination.  "Assets"  means our total  assets
before a reduction for accumulated depreciation and amortization that should, in
accordance with generally accepted  accounting  principles,  be reflected on the
consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination.

                                       9


     Our bank and senior  unsecured debt agreements  contain  various  customary
financial covenants,  including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the
prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of
default.

EMPLOYEES
- ---------

     We have approximately  5,200 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2008 who
render  services  on behalf  of the  Company,  primarily  personnel  engaged  in
property  operations.  None  of our  employees  in the  U.S.  are  covered  by a
collective  bargaining  agreement.  We  believe  that  our  relations  with  our
employees are generally amicable.

INSURANCE
- ---------

     We  have  historically  carried  customary  property,  earthquake,  general
liability and workers compensation coverage through  internationally  recognized
insurance  carriers,  subject to customary levels of deductibles.  The aggregate
limits on these  policies of $75 million for property  coverage and $102 million
for general  liability are higher than  estimates of maximum  probable loss that
could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering
and actuarial studies;  however, in case of multiple  catastrophic events, these
limits could be exhausted.

     Our tenant insurance program reinsures a program that provides insurance to
certificate  holders  against  claims for property  losses due to specific named
perils  (earthquakes  and floods are not  covered  by these  policies)  to goods
stored by tenants at our self-storage  facilities for individual  limits up to a
maximum  of $5,000.  We have  third-party  insurance  coverage  for claims  paid
exceeding  $1,000,000  resulting  from any one individual  event,  to a limit of
$25,000,000.  At December 31, 2008, there were approximately 548,000 certificate
holders  participating  in  this  program  in the  U.S.  representing  aggregate
coverage of  approximately  $1.2  billion.  We rely on a  third-party  insurance
company to provide the insurance and are subject to licensing  requirements  and
regulations in several states.  No assurance can be given that this activity can
continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction.

ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS
           ------------

     In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you
should  consider  the risks  described  below that we believe may be material to
investors in  evaluating  the Company.  This  section  contains  forward-looking
statements,  and in  considering  these  statements,  you  should  refer  to the
qualifications  and  limitations  on our  forward-looking  statements  that  are
described in FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS at the beginning of Item 1.
             --------------------------

SINCE OUR BUSINESS CONSISTS PRIMARILY OF ACQUIRING AND OPERATING REAL ESTATE, WE
ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS  RELATED TO THE  OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF REAL ESTATE
THAT CAN ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

     The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate
ownership.  Since we derive  substantially  all of our income  from real  estate
operations,  we are subject to the general  risks of  acquiring  and owning real
estate-related assets, including:

o    lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale;

o    changes in general economic or local conditions;

o    natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods;

o    potential terrorist attacks;

o    changes in supply of or demand for similar or  competing  facilities  in an
     area;

                                       10


o    the impact of environmental protection laws;

o    changes in interest  rates and  availability  of permanent  mortgage  funds
     which  may  render  the  sale  of  a  nonstrategic  property  difficult  or
     unattractive  including  the  impact of the  current  turmoil in the credit
     markets;

o    increases  in  insurance  premiums,  property  tax  assessments  and  other
     operating and maintenance expenses;

o    transactional costs and liabilities, including transfer taxes;

o    adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and

o    tenant and employment-related claims.

     In addition,  we self-insure certain of our property loss,  liability,  and
workers  compensation  risks for  which  other  real  estate  companies  may use
third-party  insurers.  This  results  in a higher  risk of losses  that are not
covered  by  third-party  insurance  contracts,  as  described  in Note 13 under
"Insurance  and Loss  Exposure"  to our  consolidated  financial  statements  at
December 31, 2008.

     There is significant  competition  among  self-storage  facilities and from
other storage alternatives.  Most of our properties are self-storage facilities,
which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008.  Local
market  conditions will play a significant  part in how competition  will affect
us.  Competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located
from other self-storage facilities and other storage alternatives is significant
and has affected the occupancy  levels,  rental rates and operating  expenses of
some of our properties.  Any increase in availability of funds for investment in
real estate may accelerate  competition.  Further  development  of  self-storage
facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage  facilities
in the market areas in which we operate.

     We may incur significant  environmental costs and liabilities.  As an owner
and  operator  of real  properties,  under  various  federal,  state  and  local
environmental  laws,  we are  required  to clean up spills or other  releases of
hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties.  Certain  environmental
laws impose liability  whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for,
the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances.  In some cases, liability may
not be limited to the value of the property.  The presence of these  substances,
or the failure to properly remediate any resulting  contamination,  whether from
environmental  or microbial  issues,  also may  adversely  affect the owner's or
operator's ability to sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its
property as collateral.

     We have  conducted  preliminary  environmental  assessments  of most of our
properties (and intend to conduct these  assessments in connection with property
acquisitions)  to  evaluate  the  environmental   condition  of,  and  potential
environmental  liabilities  associated with, our properties.  These  assessments
generally  consist  of an  investigation  of  environmental  conditions  at  the
property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis),  as well as a
review of available  information  regarding the site and publicly available data
regarding  conditions at other sites in the vicinity.  In connection  with these
property assessments,  our operations and recent property acquisitions,  we have
become aware that prior  operations  or  activities  at some  facilities or from
nearby  locations  have or may have  resulted  in  contamination  to the soil or
groundwater at these facilities.  In this regard,  some of our facilities are or
may be the subject of federal or state environmental  investigations or remedial
actions. We have obtained,  with respect to recent  acquisitions,  and intend to
obtain  with  respect to pending or future  acquisitions,  appropriate  purchase
price  adjustments or  indemnifications  that we believe are sufficient to cover
any related potential liability. Although we cannot provide any assurance, based
on the preliminary environmental assessments, we believe we have funds available
to  cover  any  liability   from   environmental   contamination   or  potential
contamination  and we are not aware of any  environmental  contamination  of our
facilities  material to our overall business,  financial condition or results of
operations.

                                       11


     There has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners
and managers of rental properties relating to moisture  infiltration,  which can
result in mold or other property damage. When we receive a complaint  concerning
moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an
air quality concern exists, we implement  corrective measures in accordance with
guidelines  and  protocols  we have  developed  with the  assistance  of outside
experts.  We seek to work  proactively  with our  tenants  to  resolve  moisture
infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual  limitations on
liability for such claims. However, we can give no assurance that material legal
claims  relating to moisture  infiltration  and the presence of, or exposure to,
mold will not arise in the future.

     Delays in  development  and  fill-up  of our  properties  would  reduce our
profitability.  From January 1, 2004,  through  December 31, 2008,  we opened 22
newly developed  self-storage  facilities in the U.S. at a cost of $186 million.
In addition,  our  development  "pipeline" at December 31, 2008 consists of five
projects  with  total  estimated  costs  of $27  million.  Shurgard  Europe  has
developed  and  opened  52  facilities  since  January  1,  2004  at a  cost  of
approximately $417 million, and has nine development projects under construction
with total estimated costs of $82 million.  Construction  delays due to weather,
unforeseen site conditions,  personnel  problems,  and other factors, as well as
cost overruns,  would adversely affect our profitability.  Delays in the rent-up
of newly  developed  storage space as a result of  competition or other factors,
including  the slowdown in the general  economy  which has  negatively  impacted
storage demand, would also adversely impact our profitability.

     Property  taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on  investments.
Each of our  properties is subject to real property  taxes.  These real property
taxes may  increase  in the  future as  property  tax  rates  change  and as our
properties are assessed or reassessed by tax  authorities.  Such increases could
adversely impact our profitability.

     We must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire and safety
regulations, which can require significant expenditures. All our properties must
comply with the Americans  with  Disabilities  Act and with related  regulations
(the  "ADA").  The  ADA  has  separate   compliance   requirements  for  "public
accommodations"  and  "commercial   facilities,"  but  generally  requires  that
buildings be made  accessible to persons with  disabilities.  Various state laws
impose similar  requirements.  A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state
laws could result in  government  imposed fines on us and could award damages to
individuals affected by the failure. In addition, we must operate our properties
in compliance with numerous local fire and safety  regulations,  building codes,
and other land use regulations.  Compliance with these  requirements can require
us to spend  substantial  amounts of money,  which would  reduce cash  otherwise
available  for  distribution  to  shareholders.  Failure  to comply  with  these
requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities.

     We incur liability from tenant and employment-related  claims. From time to
time we must resolve  tenant claims and  employment-related  claims by corporate
level and field personnel.

THE GLOBAL  ECONOMIC  CRISIS  COULD  ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR  BUSINESS,  FINANCIAL
CONDITION, GROWTH AND ACCESS TO CAPITAL.

     By the end of 2008, the national  economy was in a recession and the global
financial crisis had broadened and intensified. Declining economic conditions in
the markets where we operate  facilities,  including higher  unemployment rates,
restrictions  on the  availability of credit,  volatile energy costs,  increased
governmental  needs for  revenue,  and other  events or factors  that  adversely
affect disposable  incomes,  have and are likely to continue to adversely affect
our business.

     As a further result of the current global financial crisis,  our ability to
issue preferred  shares or borrow at reasonable  rates has been and may continue
to be adversely  affected by illiquid credit markets.  The issuance of perpetual
preferred  securities  has been a  significant  source  of  capital  to grow our
business.  In the current market,  we are not able to issue perpetual  preferred
securities at yields we believe are attractive.  While we currently believe that
we have sufficient  working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and
our retained  cash flow from  operations  to continue to operate our business as
usual,  long-term continued turbulence in the credit markets and in the national

                                       12


economy may adversely affect our access to capital and adversely impact earnings
growth that might otherwise  result from the acquisition and development of real
estate facilities.

WE GROW OUR BUSINESS PRIMARILY THROUGH  ACQUISITIONS OF EXISTING  PROPERTIES AND
ARE  SUBJECT TO RISKS  RELATED TO  ACQUISITIONS  THAT MAY  ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR
GROWTH AND FINANCIAL RESULTS.

     We grow our  business  in large part  through the  acquisition  of existing
properties,   including  acquisitions  of  businesses  owned  by  other  storage
operators.  In addition to the general  risks  related to real estate  described
above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties,  we are
also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and
the integration of acquired properties into our operations.

     Any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions
successfully could negatively impact our financial results.  Our growth strategy
includes acquiring other self-storage facilities.  We also evaluate from time to
time  other  significant  transactions.  If these  facilities  are not  properly
integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer.

     Any failure to successfully integrate acquired operations with our existing
business could  negatively  impact our financial  results.  To fully realize any
anticipated  benefits from an  acquisition,  we must  successfully  complete the
combination  of the  businesses of Public  Storage and acquired  properties in a
manner  that  permits  cost  savings to be  realized.  It is  possible  that the
integration  process could result in a decline in occupancy and/or rental rates,
the  disruption  of each  company's  ongoing  businesses or  inconsistencies  in
standards,   controls,   procedures,   practices,   policies  and   compensation
arrangements  that adversely affect our ability to maintain  relationships  with
tenants and  employees or to achieve  anticipated  benefits,  particularly  with
large acquisitions.

     Some acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may
increase our property tax  expense.  Some of the  facilities  we acquired in the
Shurgard  Merger have been,  and will  continue to be,  subject to property  tax
reappraisal  that could increase  property tax expense and adversely  affect our
profitability.  Up to 17% of the domestic  properties  we acquired in the merger
are located in jurisdictions  that may provide for property tax reappraisal upon
a change of ownership and so may face further reassessment.

AS A RESULT OF OUR OWNERSHIP OF 49% OF THE INTERNATIONAL  OPERATIONS OF SHURGARD
EUROPE WITH A BOOK VALUE OF $264.1 MILLION AT DECEMBER 31, 2008, AND OUR LOAN TO
SHURGARD EUROPE  AGGREGATING $552.4 MILLION AT DECEMBER 31, 2008, WE ARE EXPOSED
TO  ADDITIONAL  RISKS  RELATED TO  INTERNATIONAL  BUSINESSES  THAT MAY ADVERSELY
IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS.

     We have limited  experience  in European  operations,  which may  adversely
impact our  ability to operate  profitably  in  Europe.  In  addition,  European
operations  have specific  inherent  risks,  including  without  limitation  the
following:

o    currency risks, including currency fluctuations,  which can impact the fair
     value of our  $264.1  million  book value  equity  investment  in  Shurgard
     Europe,  as well as the net proceeds to be received  upon  repayment of our
     loan to Shurgard Europe;

o    unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements;

o    potentially adverse tax burdens;

o    burdens of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and
     labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws;

o    obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash;

o    regional, national and local political uncertainty;

o    economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets;

                                       13


o    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;

o    reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; and

o    inability to effectively  control less than  wholly-owned  partnerships and
     joint ventures.

Based upon current  market  conditions  and recent  operating  result  trends of
Shurgard  Europe,  the  following  specific  risks  apply  with  respect  to our
investment in, and loan to, Shurgard Europe:

o    We have an  obligation  to loan up to an  additional  (euro)305  million to
     Shurgard  Europe.  Shurgard  Europe  exercised  their  option to extend our
     commitment  to  provide up to  (euro)305  million  of  additional  loans to
     Shurgard  Europe  through  March 2010,  either to fund the  acquisition  of
     Shurgard Europe's JV partner's  interest in the joint ventures and/or repay
     Shurgard  Europe's  pro-rata  share of the joint  venture  debt.  While the
     acquisition  of the joint  venture  partners'  interests are subject to our
     approval,  and  Shurgard  Europe's  pro rata share of the  aggregate  joint
     venture debt is approximately (euro)50 million, this commitment may require
     us to loan  additional  funds to Shurgard  Europe in amounts or under terms
     that we may not have otherwise agreed to.

o    Joint Ventures that Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in have  significant
     refinancing requirements. Shurgard Europe's two joint ventures collectively
     had  approximately  (euro)250  million ($355 million) of  outstanding  debt
     payable to third  parties at December 31, 2008,  which is  non-recourse  to
     Shurgard Europe.  One of the joint venture loans totaling (euro)120 million
     ($170  million) is due May 2009 and the other joint  venture loan  totaling
     (euro)130  million ($185 million) is due in June 2009.  Shurgard  Europe is
     currently  negotiating  terms  with the  respective  lenders  to extend the
     maturities out one to three years.  We expect  Shurgard  Europe to finalize
     these  extensions  within  the  next  90  days,  although  there  can be no
     assurance  that such  extensions  will  actually be  completed.

     If Shurgard  Europe were unable to extend the maturity  dates of the loans,
     it is our  expectation  that the loans  would be repaid  with each  partner
     contributing their pro rata share towards repayment.  Shurgard Europe's pro
     rata share, in the aggregate,  would be approximately (euro)50 million ($70
     million)  which  Shurgard  Europe could borrow from us pursuant to our loan
     commitment  described  above.  Further,  it is also  possible that Shurgard
     Europe's  joint venture  partner will be unable to contribute  its pro rata
     share to repay the loans and may  trigger,  through  its  rights  under the
     related partnership  documents,  the liquidation of the partnership,  which
     could  result  in  Shurgard  Europe's  acquisition  of  its  joint  venture
     partner's interest or the sale of the properties to third properties,  with
     potential loss or reduction to our investment if the  liquidation  proceeds
     were not  sufficient.  If Shurgard Europe were to acquire its joint venture
     partner's on such a  circumstance,  it could  borrow on the  aforementioned
     (euro)305  million loan commitment we have provided to fund the purchase of
     the joint venture partner's interest and repayment of the loans.

o    Shurgard  Europe's  ability to refinance  its $552.4  million loan from us,
     which  is  due  in  March  2010,  is  limited  based  upon  current  market
     conditions.  We have loaned  Shurgard  Europe  (euro)391.9  million ($552.4
     million at December 31,  2008),  and this loan is due in March 2010.  Given
     the current  capital  markets,  it is likely that Shurgard  Europe would be
     unable to refinance the entire loan. If Shurgard Europe is unable to obtain
     financing  to raise funds to repay our loan,  we may have to  negotiate  an
     equity  or debt  contribution  by our joint  venture  partner  to  Shurgard
     Europe,  extend the loan, or otherwise  take steps under our lender rights.
     Any of these steps could negatively impact our investment and the liquidity
     of Shurgard Europe.

o    Shurgard  Europe's   operating  trends  are  negative.   Shurgard  Europe's
     same-store  revenue is down 2.3% in the quarter ended  December 31, 2008 as
     compared to the same period in 2007 on a constant  exchange rate basis,  as
     compared to same-store  revenue growth in the U.S. of 1.6%. The outlook for
     2009  for  Shurgard  Europe  is  for  continued  reductions  in  same-store

                                       14


     revenues,  which will adversely impact Shurgard Europe's  operating results
     and its  interest  coverage  ratio and other  similar  metrics  upon  which
     potential lenders typically base their lending decisions.

WE ARE  SUBJECT TO RISKS  RELATED TO OUR  OWNERSHIP  OF ASSETS IN JOINT  VENTURE
STRUCTURES.

     In connection with our 2006  acquisition of Shurgard and the acquisition of
a 51%  interest in  Shurgard  Europe by an  institutional  investor on March 31,
2008, we hold  interests in several joint  ventures.  Joint ventures may present
additional risks, including without limitation, the following:

o    Risks  related  to  the  financial  strength,  common  business  goals  and
     strategies and cooperation of the venture partner.

o    The  inability  to take some  actions  with  respect  to the joint  venture
     activities that we may believe are favorable,  if our joint venture partner
     does not agree.

o    The risk that we could lose our REIT status based upon actions of the joint
     ventures  if  we  are  unable  to   effectively   control  these   indirect
     investments.

o    The risk that we may not  control  the legal  entity  that has title to the
     real estate.

o    The risk that our  investments  in these entities may not be easily sold or
     readily  accepted as  collateral  by our lenders,  or that lenders may view
     joint ventured assets as less favorable as collateral.

o    The risk that the  joint  ventures  could  take  actions  that we could not
     prevent,  which  could  result in  negative  rating  agency  impacts to our
     preferred shares and debt.

o    The risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that
     we would otherwise deem favorable,  due to noncompete  clauses in our joint
     venture arrangements.

o    The risk that we will be unable to resolve  disputes with our joint venture
     partners.   We  are  currently  engaged  in  legal  proceedings   including
     litigation with certain joint venture partners.

THE  HUGHES  FAMILY  COULD  CONTROL  US  AND  TAKE  ACTIONS   ADVERSE  TO  OTHER
SHAREHOLDERS.

     At December 31, 2008,  B. Wayne  Hughes,  Chairman of the Board of Trustees
and his family (the "Hughes Family") owned  approximately 21.0% of our aggregate
outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to
own up to 47.66% of our  outstanding  common  shares.  Consequently,  the Hughes
Family may or could  control  matters  submitted to a vote of our  shareholders,
including electing trustees,  amending our organizational documents,  dissolving
and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even
though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders.

CERTAIN  PROVISIONS OF MARYLAND LAW AND IN OUR  DECLARATION  OF TRUST AND BYLAWS
MAY  PREVENT  CHANGES IN  CONTROL  OR  OTHERWISE  DISCOURAGE  TAKEOVER  ATTEMPTS
BENEFICIAL TO SHAREHOLDERS.

     Maryland law limits certain business combinations and changes of control of
the  Company  unless  the Board  affirmatively  elects  not to be covered by the
statutory  provisions.  Currently,  the Board  has  opted  out of the  statutory
limitations of both statutes.  However,  the Board may in the future elect to be
covered  under  the  business  combination  provisions  and  the  control  share
acquisitions  provisions of Maryland law. The business combination provisions of
Maryland  law (in the event our Board opts to make them  applicable  to us), the
control  share  acquisition  provisions  of  Maryland  law  (if  the  applicable
provision in our bylaws is rescinded), limitations on removal of trustees in our
declaration  of  trust,  restrictions  on  the  acquisition  of  our  shares  of
beneficial  interest,  the power to issue  additional  common shares,  preferred
shares or equity  shares and the advance  notice  provisions of our bylaws could
have the effect of delaying,  deterring or preventing a transaction  or a change
in control that might  involve a premium  price for holders of the common shares
or might otherwise be in their best interest. Certain provisions of Maryland law

                                       15


permit our board of trustees,  without  shareholder  approval and  regardless of
what is provided in our  declaration of trust or bylaws,  to implement  takeover
defenses that we may not yet have and to take,  or refrain from taking,  certain
other actions without those  decisions being subject to any heightened  standard
of conduct or  standard  of review as such  decisions  may be subject in certain
other jurisdictions.

     To preserve our status as a REIT under the Code,  our  declaration of trust
contains  limitations  on the number and value of shares of beneficial  interest
that any person may own. These ownership limitations generally limit the ability
of a person,  other than the Hughes  Family (as  defined in our  declaration  of
trust)  and other  than  "designated  investment  entities"  (as  defined in our
declaration of trust),  to own more than 3% of our outstanding  common shares or
9.9% of the  outstanding  shares of any class or series of  preferred  or equity
shares,  in  each  case,  in  value  or  number  of  shares,  whichever  is more
restrictive,  unless an  exemption  is granted by our board of  trustees.  These
limitations could discourage,  delay or prevent a transaction involving a change
in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees.

IF WE FAILED TO QUALIFY AS A REIT FOR INCOME TAX PURPOSES,  WE WOULD BE TAXED AS
A CORPORATION,  WHICH WOULD SUBSTANTIALLY  REDUCE FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR PAYMENT OF
DIVIDENDS.

     Investors  are  subject  to the risk that we may not  qualify as a REIT for
income tax purposes.  REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and
operational  requirements.  As a REIT, we must  distribute  with respect to each
year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders (which may take
into account certain dividends paid in the subsequent year).  Other restrictions
apply to our income  and  assets.  Our REIT  status is also  dependent  upon the
ongoing  qualification  of our  affiliate,  PSB,  as a REIT,  as a result of our
substantial ownership interest in that company.

     For any  taxable  year that we fail to  qualify as a REIT and are unable to
avail ourselves of relief  provisions set forth in the Code, we would be subject
to  federal  income tax at the  regular  corporate  rates on all of our  taxable
income,  whether or not we make any  distributions  to our  shareholders.  Those
taxes  would  reduce  the  amount  of cash  available  for  distribution  to our
shareholders or for reinvestment  and would adversely affect our earnings.  As a
result,  our failure to qualify as a REIT  during any taxable  year could have a
material  adverse  effect  upon us and  our  shareholders.  Furthermore,  unless
certain relief  provisions  apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status
again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we
fail to qualify.

     We have also assumed,  based on public filings that Shurgard qualified as a
REIT.  However, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we generally would have
succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities  (including the significant
tax  liability  that  would  have  resulted  from the  deemed  sale of assets by
Shurgard to us pursuant to the Shurgard Merger).

WE MAY PAY SOME TAXES, REDUCING CASH AVAILABLE FOR SHAREHOLDERS.

     Even if we  qualify  as a REIT for  federal  income  tax  purposes,  we are
required to pay some federal,  foreign,  state and local taxes on our income and
property.  Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate  subsidiaries of the Company
(including certain subsidiaries acquired in connection with the Shurgard Merger)
have  elected to be treated as "taxable  REIT  subsidiaries"  of the Company for
federal income tax purposes.  A taxable REIT  subsidiary is taxable as a regular
corporation and is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us
in excess of a certain  amount.  In  addition,  if we receive or accrue  certain
amounts  and  the  underlying  economic  arrangements  among  our  taxable  REIT
subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar  arrangements  among unrelated
parties, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of
amounts deemed  reasonable  between  unrelated  parties.  To the extent that the
Company or any taxable  REIT  subsidiary  is required to pay  federal,  foreign,
state or local  taxes,  we will have less cash  available  for  distribution  to
shareholders.

WE   HAVE   BECOME    INCREASINGLY    DEPENDENT   UPON   AUTOMATED    PROCESSES,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS, AND THE INTERNET AND ARE FACED WITH SYSTEM SECURITY RISKS.

     We have  become  increasingly  centralized  and  dependent  upon  automated
information technology processes.  As a result, we could be severely impacted by
a catastrophic occurrence,  such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack. In

                                       16


addition,  a portion of our business operations are conducted over the Internet,
increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system  failures and disruptions
of operations.  Experienced  computer  programmers  may be able to penetrate our
network security and misappropriate our confidential information,  create system
disruptions  or cause  shutdowns.  Nearly half of our move-ins  comes from sales
channels dependent upon telecommunications (telephone or Internet).

WE HAVE NO  INTEREST  IN CANADIAN  SELF-STORAGE  FACILITIES  OWNED BY THE HUGHES
FAMILY.

     The Hughes Family has ownership interests in, and operates, 49 self-storage
facilities  in Canada under the name  "Public  Storage." We currently do not own
any interests in these  facilities  nor do we own any  facilities in Canada.  We
have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the  corporation
engaged in the operation of the self-storage  facilities in Canada if the Hughes
Family or the  corporation  agrees to sell them.  However,  we have no ownership
interest in the operations of this  corporation,  have no right to acquire their
stock or assets unless the Hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit
from the profits and increases in value of the Canadian self-storage facilities.

     Through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of
goods stored by tenants in the  self-storage  facilities in Canada.  We acquired
the tenant insurance business on December 31, 2001 through our acquisition of PS
Insurance  Company,  or PSICH.  For the years ended  December 31, 2008 and 2007,
PSICH received  $768,000 and $906,000,  respectively,  in  reinsurance  premiums
attributable to the Canadian  Facilities.  Since PSICH's right to provide tenant
reinsurance to the Canadian  Facilities may be qualified,  there is no assurance
that these premiums will continue.

OUR TENANT INSURANCE BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENTAL  REGULATION WHICH COULD
REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY OR LIMIT OUR GROWTH.

     We hold Limited Lines Self Storage  Insurance  Agent licenses from a number
of  individual  state   Departments  of  Insurance  and  are  subject  to  state
governmental  regulation and supervision.  This state  governmental  supervision
could reduce our  profitability  or limit our growth by increasing  the costs of
regulatory  compliance,  limiting  or  restricting  the  products or services we
provide or the methods by which we provide products and services,  or subjecting
our businesses to the  possibility  of regulatory  actions or  proceedings.  Our
continued  ability to maintain these Limited Lines Self Storage  Insurance Agent
licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance
with the rules and regulations  promulgated  from time to time by the regulatory
authorities  in  each  of  these  jurisdictions.  Furthermore,  state  insurance
departments  conduct periodic  examinations,  audits and  investigations  of the
affairs of insurance agents.

     In all  jurisdictions,  the applicable  laws and regulations are subject to
amendment  or  interpretation  by  regulatory   authorities.   Generally,   such
authorities  are vested with  relatively  broad  discretion to grant,  renew and
revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations.  Accordingly, we may
be  precluded  or  temporarily  suspended  from  carrying  on some or all of our
activities  or  otherwise  fined  or  penalized  in  a  given  jurisdiction.  No
assurances  can be given that our businesses can continue to be conducted in any
given  jurisdiction  as it has been conducted in the past. For each of the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, revenues from our tenant reinsurance  business
represented approximately 3% of our revenues.

FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH  APPLICABLE  LAWS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS  AND  FINANCIAL
RESULTS.

     We are  subject  to a wide  range of  federal,  state  and  local  laws and
regulations  including those imposed by the SEC, the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
and New York Stock Exchange,  as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have
policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations,
failure to comply with the various laws and  regulations may result in civil and
criminal  liability,  fines and  penalties,  increased  costs of compliance  and
restatement of our financial statements.

                                       17


TERRORIST  ATTACKS  AND THE  POSSIBILITY  OF WIDER  ARMED  CONFLICT  MAY HAVE AN
ADVERSE  IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS  AND  OPERATING  RESULTS AND COULD  DECREASE THE
VALUE OF OUR ASSETS.

     Terrorist  attacks  and other acts of violence or war could have a material
adverse impact on our business and operating results.  There can be no assurance
that there will not be further  terrorist attacks against the U.S., the European
Community,  or their  businesses or interests.  Attacks or armed  conflicts that
directly  impact one or more of our properties  could  significantly  affect our
ability to operate those  properties and thereby  impair our operating  results.
Further,  we may not have  insurance  coverage for losses  caused by a terrorist
attack. Such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide
to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant
in relationship to the risk overall. In addition,  the adverse effects that such
violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S.  economy could
similarly  have a  material  adverse  effect  on our  business  and  results  of
operations. Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the U.S. to enter into a
wider armed  conflict,  which could  further  impact our business and  operating
results.

DEVELOPMENTS  IN  CALIFORNIA  MAY HAVE AN  ADVERSE  IMPACT ON OUR  BUSINESS  AND
FINANCIAL RESULTS.

     We are headquartered  in, and approximately  one-fifth of our properties in
the U.S.  are  located in  California.  The state of  California  and many local
jurisdictions are facing severe budgetary problems.  Action that may be taken in
response to these  problems,  such as increases in property  taxes on commercial
properties,  changes  to  sales  taxes or other  governmental  efforts  to raise
revenues  could  adversely  impact our  business and results of  operations.  In
addition,  we could be  adversely  impacted  by efforts  to reenact  legislation
mandating medical  insurance for employees of California  businesses and members
of their families.

ITEM 1B