Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the following:

 





·  


general risks associated with the ownership and operation of real estate including changes in demand, potential liability for environmental contamination, adverse changes in tax, including property tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations, and the impact of natural disasters;




 





·  


risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies in the markets in which we operate, including risks related to current economic conditions and the economic health of our tenants;




 





·  


the impact of competition from new and existing self-storage and commercial facilities and other storage alternatives;




 





·  


difficulties in our ability to successfully evaluate, finance, integrate into our existing operations and manage acquired and developed properties;




 





·  


risks associated with international operations including, but not limited to, unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, that could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows;




 





·  


risks related to our participation in joint ventures;




 





·  


the impact of the regulatory environment as well as national, state, and local laws and regulations including, without limitation, those governing environmental, tax and tenant insurance matters and real estate investment trusts (“REITs”), and risks related to the impact of new laws and regulations;




 





·  


risks associated with a possible failure by us to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;




 





·  


disruptions or shutdowns of our automated processes and systems or breaches of our data security;




 





·  


difficulties in raising capital at a reasonable cost; and




 





·  


economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism. 




 



  



3







  



 

 

We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this document, except where required by law.  Accordingly, you should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements to anticipate future results.

 

General

 

Public Storage was organized in 1980.  Effective June 1, 2007, we reorganized Public Storage, Inc. into Public Storage (referred to herein as “the Company”, “the Trust”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”).  Our principal business activities include the acquisition, development, ownership and operation of self-storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease, generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business use.  We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in the United States (“U.S.”). We also have equity interests in Shurgard Europe, a private company that we believe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Western Europe
, and in PS Business Parks, Inc., a public company whose business activities primarily include the ownership and operations of commercial properties.

 

At December 31, 2010, we operate within three reportable segments:

 





(i)  


Domestic Self-Storage segment which includes our direct and indirect equity interests in 2,048 self-storage facilities (130 million net rentable square feet of space) located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the “Public Storage” brand name.




 





(ii)  


Europe Self-Storage segment which comprises (a) our 49% equity interest in Shurgard Europe which has direct and indirect equity interests in 188 self-storage facilities (10 million net rentable square feet of space) located in seven countries in Western Europe which operate under the “Shurgard” brand name and (b) one facility located in the United Kingdom that we wholly own.




 





(iii)  


Commercial segment which includes our direct and indirect equity interests in approximately 24 million net rentable square feet of commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S., including our 41% ownership interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”), a publicly traded REIT whose common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PSB”.  This commercial space is primarily operated under the “PS Business Parks” brand name.




 

See Note 11 to our December 31, 2010 consolidated financial statements for further discussion with respect to our reportable segments.

 

Certain other activities, due to their insignificant scale and dissimilarity in operating characteristics to our existing segments, are not allocated to any segment.  These activities include (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage facilities, (ii) the sale of merchandise at our self-storage facilities and (iii) management of self-storage facilities owned by third-party owners and entities that we have an ownership interest in but are not consolidated.

 

For all taxable years subsequent to 1980, we qualified and intend to continue to qualify as a REIT, as defined in Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code.  As a REIT, we do not incur federal or significant state tax on that portion of our taxable income which is distributed to our shareholders, provided that we meet certain tests.  To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be subject to tax, with certain limited exceptions, on the taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders.

 

We have reported annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial statements certified by our independent registered public accountants.  We have also reported quarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited financial statements with such filings.  We expect to continue such reporting.

 

On our website, www.publicstorage.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.

 



  



4







  



 

 

The Impact of Current Economic Factors

 

Our business has been negatively affected by the recessionary environment experienced in 2008 through 2010.  Occupancies, rental rates and overall rental income at our facilities came under pressure as demand for self-storage space softened.  We responded by reducing rental rates, increasing promotional discounts, and increasing our marketing activities to stimulate additional demand for our storage space and increase our market share.  Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities decreased from $1.468 billion in 2008 to $1.423 billion in 2009, representing a reduction of 3.1%.  Our operating metrics began to stabilize in the latter part of 2009 and started to improve as we moved into the second half of 2010.  Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities stabilized in 2010 at $1.
428 billion, flat as compared to 2009.

 

See “Growth and Investment Strategies” and “Financing of the Company’s Growth Strategies” below for more information regarding our long-term strategy to grow the cash flows and equity values of the Company.

 

Competition

 

Self-storage facilities generally draw customers who either reside or have their businesses located within a three to five mile radius.  Many of our facilities operate within three to five miles of well-located and well-managed competitors that seek the same group of customers. Many of our competitors utilize the same marketing channels we use, including yellow page advertising, Internet advertising, as well as signage and banners.  As a result, competition is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses of our facilities.

 

While competition is significant, the self-storage industry remains fragmented in the U.S.  We believe that we own approximately 5% of the aggregate self-storage square footage in the U.S., and that collectively the five largest self-storage operators in the U.S. own approximately 10% of the aggregate self-storage space in the U.S., with the remaining 90% owned by numerous private regional and local operators.  This market fragmentation enhances the advantage of our economies of scale and our brand relative to other operators (see “Business Attributes – Economies of Scale” below), and provides an opportunity for growth through acquisitions over the long term.

 

In seeking investments, we compete with a wide variety of institutions and other investors.  The amount of funds available for real estate investments greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments.

 

Business Attributes

 

We believe that we possess several primary business attributes that permit us to compete effectively:

 

Centralized information networks: Our facilities are part of comprehensive centralized reporting and information networks which enable the management team to identify changing market conditions and operating trends as well as analyze customer data, and quickly change our properties’ pricing and promotional mix on an automated basis.

 

National Telephone Reservation System:  We operate a centralized telephone reservation system, which provides added customer service and helps to maximize utilization of available self-storage space.  Customers calling either the toll-free telephone referral system, (800) 44-STORE, or a storage facility, are directed to the national reservation system.  A representative discusses with the customer space requirements, price and location preferences and also informs the customer of other products and services provided by the Company and its subsidiaries.  We believe that the centralized telephone reservation system enhances our ability to market storage space in the U
.S. relative to handling these calls at individual properties, because it allows us to more effectively offer all spaces at all facilities in the vicinity of a customer and to provide higher-quality selling efforts through dedicated sales specialists.

 



  



5







  



 

 

On-line reservation and marketing system: We also provide customers the ability to review space availability, pricing, and make reservations online through our website, www.publicstorage.com.  We invest extensively in advertising on the Internet, primarily through the use of search engines.

 

Economies of scale: We are the largest provider of self-storage space in the U.S.  As of December 31, 2010, we operated 2,048 self-storage facilities in which we had an interest with over one million self-storage spaces rented.   These facilities are generally located in major markets within 38 states in the U.S.  The size and scope of our operations have enabled us to achieve high operating margins and a low level of administrative costs relative to revenues through the centralization of many functions with specialists, such as facility maintenance, employee compensation and benefits programs, pricing of our product, as well as the development and documentation of standardized operating procedures.  We also believe
 that our major market concentration provides managerial efficiencies stemming from having a large number of facilities in close proximity to each other.

 

The concentration of most of our properties in major metropolitan centers makes various promotional and media programs, such as yellow pages, Internet keyword bidding, and television advertising, more economical for us than for our competitors.  We can economically purchase large, prominent, well-placed yellow page ads that allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller operators.  Our large market share relative to our competitors, along with our well-recognized brand name, increases the likelihood that our facilities will appear in response to queries in search engines such as Google, and allows us to bid aggressively and efficiently for multiple-keyword advertising.  In addition, we are able to market efficiently using television as a media source.

 

Brand name recognition: Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the “Public Storage” brand name, which we believe is the most recognized and established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S.  Our storage operations within the U.S. are conducted in major markets in 38 states, giving us national recognition and prominence.  Our facilities tend to be highly visible and located in heavily populated areas, improving the local awareness of our brand.  We believe that the “Shurgard” brand, used by Shurgard Europe, is a similarly established and valuable brand.

 

Complementary ancillary operations: We also sell retail items associated with the storage business (locks, cardboard boxes and packing supplies) and reinsure policies issued to our tenants against lost or damaged goods stored by our tenants.  We believe these activities supplement our existing self-storage business by further meeting the needs of our customers.

 

Growth and Investment Strategies

 

Our growth strategies consist of: (i) improving the operating performance of our existing self-storage facilities, (ii) acquiring facilities, (iii) developing or redeveloping existing real estate facilities, (iv) participating in the growth of commercial facilities, primarily through our investment in PSB, and (v) participate in the growth of Shurgard Europe.  While our long-term strategy includes each of these elements, in the short run the level of growth in our asset base in any period is dependent upon the cost and availability of capital, as well as the relative attractiveness of investment alternatives.

 

Improve the operating performance of existing facilities: We seek to increase the net cash flow generated by our existing self-storage facilities by a) regularly evaluating our call volume, reservation activity, and move-in/move-out rates for each of our facilities relative to our marketing activities, b) evaluating market supply and demand factors and, based upon these analyses, adjusting our marketing activities and rental rates, c) attempting to maximize revenues through evaluating the appropriate balance between occupancy, rental rates, and promotional discounting and d) controlling operating costs.  We believe that our property management personnel and systems, combined with our national telephone reservation system and media advertising program
s will continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals.  See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” below for further information regarding our expectation in the short-run with respect to our operating results.

 



  



6







  



 

 

Acquire properties owned or operated by others in the U.S.: We seek to expand our portfolio by acquiring well-located facilities, at generally attractive pricing.  We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities and capitalize on the overall fragmentation in the self-storage industry.  Data on the rental rates and occupancy levels of our existing facilities, which are often located in proximity to potential acquisition candidates, provide us an advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities. During 2008 and 2009, there were few acquisition opportunities.  We have increased our acquisitions of sel
f-storage facilities in 2010 as more opportunities became available.  During 2010, we acquired 42 facilities (2.7 million net rentable square feet) for approximately $239.6 million.  While there can be no assurance, we believe that additional acquisition opportunities may materialize in 2011.  In January 2011, we acquired five facilities (386,000 net rentable square feet) in Nevada for approximately $19.5 million.

 

Development of real estate facilities: We believe that in the long-run, development of new storage locations and expansion of our existing self-storage facilities represent an important part of our growth strategy.  New locations can be developed to meet customer needs and expand our geographic reach, generally within our existing markets.  In addition, existing facilities can be expanded or enhanced to provide additional amenities such as climate control, to better capitalize on increased population density in certain facilities’ local market area.    However, due to the challenging operating environment, we substantially curtailed our development activities beginning in 2008.  We continue to have a nomi
nal development pipeline at December 31, 2010.  Shurgard Europe has similarly reduced its development activities (see “Capitalize on the Potential for Growth in Europe” below).

 

Participate in the growth of commercial facilities primarily through our ownership in PS Business Parks, Inc.: At December 31, 2010, we had a 41% interest in PSB and its operating partnership which consisted of 5,801,606 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in the operating partnership.  The limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis into PSB common stock.  At December 31, 2010, PSB owned and operated approximately 21.8 million net rentable square feet of commercial space located in eight states in the U.S.  During 2008 through 2010, the recession in the U.S. impacted PSB, resu
lting in a decrease in rental income for PSB’s “same park” facilities.  It is uncertain what impact the current recessionary trends will have on PSB’s future occupancy levels and rental rents.  Due to capital market dislocations and other factors, PSB did not acquire any new commercial space in 2009 and 2008; however, in 2010, PSB acquired a total of 2.4 million net rentable square feet of commercial space for an aggregate cost of approximately $301.7 million.  On February 9, 2011, we loaned PSB $121 million which PSB used to re-pay borrowings against their credit facility and repurchase preferred stock.  The loan has a six-month term, no prepayment penalties, and bears interest at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 0.85%.

 

Capitalize on the potential for growth in Europe:  On March 31, 2008, we entered into a transaction with an institutional investor whereby the investor acquired a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe.  Shurgard Europe held substantially all of our operations in Europe.  Since March 31, 2008, we own the remaining 49% interest and are the managing member of Shurgard European Holdings LLC, a joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe’s operations.

 

We believe that Shurgard Europe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Western Europe.  At December 31, 2010, Shurgard Europe’s operations comprise 188 facilities with an aggregate of approximately 10 million net rentable square feet.  The portfolio consists of 116 wholly owned facilities and 72 facilities owned by two joint venture partnerships, in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity interest.

 

Shurgard Europe operates in seven markets in Western Europe:  the French market (principally Paris), the Swedish market (principally Stockholm), the United Kingdom market (principally London), the Dutch market, the Belgian market, the Danish market (principally Copenhagen) and the German market.

 

In contrast to the U.S., the European self-storage industry is relatively immature.  In each of the markets that Shurgard Europe operates, customer awareness of the product is relatively low and ownership of self-storage facilities remains fragmented.  Although many European consumers are not yet aware of the self-storage concept, they tend to live in more densely populated areas in smaller living spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe, should make self-storage an attractive option as product knowledge and availability of additional self-storage facilities grows.  Most Europeans are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary service provided by moving companies, and more consumer familiarity could result in a significant increase in demand in the long-term.

 



  



7







  



 

 

In the longer term, we believe that there is significant growth potential in Europe to expand the number of facilities owned either through development, acquisition, and consolidation, even if the density of self-storage in Europe does not ultimately approach the levels in the U.S.  Capitalizing on this opportunity will require a significant amount of capital and currently Shurgard Europe’s ability to raise capital at attractive rates from the European public debt and equity markets, as well as from banks, is constrained.  In addition, Shurgard Europe faces refinancing risk, as approximately $125.2 million (€94.5 million) and $147.5 million (€111.3 million) of debt owed by joint ventures matures in May 2011, with a right to extend one year, and July 2013, respectively, and approximately $495.2 mil
lion (€373.7 million) in a loan payable to us becomes due in March 2013.  Due to these capital constraints and refinancing risks, Shurgard Europe has interrupted its development and growth plans.  At such time that public market capital or bank debt becomes available to Shurgard Europe at attractive rates, and economic trends improve, development and growth may recommence; however, there can be no assurance that such development and growth will ultimately recommence and at what levels.

 

Financing of the Company’s Growth Strategies

 

Overview of financing strategy:  Over the past three years we funded the cash portion of our acquisition and development activities with permanent capital (predominantly retained cash flow and the net proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities).  We have elected to use preferred securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional debt, because of certain benefits described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.’’  Our present intention is to continue to finance substantially all our growth with cash a
nd marketable securities on hand ($558.5 million at December 31, 2010), internally generated cash flows and permanent capital.

 

Impact of Current Capital Markets: Our ability to raise additional capital by issuing our common or preferred securities is dependent upon capital market conditions.  Capital markets in the U.S. have improved from the severe stress experienced in late 2008 and early 2009, and we have recently issued preferred shares at favorable rates (in April and May, 2010, we issued cumulative preferred shares at a rate of 6.875% for gross proceeds of $145 million, and in October 2010 we issued cumulative preferred shares at a rate of 6.500% for gross proceeds of $125 million).  Despite our recent issuances of preferred equity, there can be no assurance that market conditions will continue to permit preferred security issuances at amounts and a
t rates that we will find attractive.

 

Borrowing: We have in the past used our $300 million revolving line of credit as temporary “bridge” financing, and repaid those amounts with permanent capital.  Our debt outstanding currently represents debt that was assumed either in connection with property acquisitions or in connection with the merger with Shurgard in 2006.  When we have assumed such debt in the past, we have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of the loan terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made it economically disadvantageous to prepay.  While it is not our present intention to issue additional debt as a long-term financing strategy, we have broad powers to borrow in furtherance of our obj
ectives without a vote of our shareholders.  These powers are subject to a limitation on unsecured borrowings in our Bylaws described in “Limitations on Debt” below.

 

Our senior debt was recently upgraded to an “A” credit rating by Standard and Poor’s.  Notwithstanding our desire is to continue to meet our capital needs with preferred and common equity, this high rating, combined with our low level of debt, could allow us to issue a significant amount of unsecured debt in the current markets if we were to choose to do so.

 

Issuance of securities in exchange for property: We have issued both our common and preferred securities in exchange for real estate and other investments in the past.  Future issuances will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market conditions at the time, including the market prices of our equity securities.

 

Joint Venture financing: We have formed and may form additional joint ventures to facilitate the funding of future developments or acquisitions.

 



  



8







  



 

 

Disposition of properties: Disposition of properties to raise capital has not been one of our strategies. Generally, we have disposed of self-storage facilities only because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell.  We do not presently intend to sell any significant number of self-storage facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not.

 

Investments in Real Estate and Real Estate Entities

 

Investment Policies and Practices with respect to our investments: Following are our investment practices and policies which, though we do not anticipate any significant alteration, can be changed by our Board of Trustees without a shareholder vote:

 





·  


Our investments primarily consist of direct ownership of self-storage facilities (the nature of our self-storage facilities is described in Item 2, “Properties”), as well as partial interests in entities that own self-storage facilities.




 





·  


Our partial ownership interests primarily reflect general and limited partnership interests in entities that own self-storage facilities that are managed by us under the “Public Storage” brand name in the U.S., as well as storage facilities managed in Europe under the “Shurgard” brand name which are owned by Shurgard Europe.




 





·  


Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of properties from third parties) will include common equity interests in entities in which we already have an interest.




 





·  


To a lesser extent, we have interests in existing commercial properties (described in Item 2, “Properties”), containing commercial and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.




 

Facilities Owned by Subsidiaries

 

In addition to our direct ownership of 1,922 self-storage facilities in the U.S. and one self-storage facility in London, England at December 31, 2010, we have controlling indirect interests in entities that own 107 self-storage facilities in the U.S. with approximately 6 million net rentable square feet.  Due to our controlling interest in each of these entities, we consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these entities in our financial statements.

 

Facilities Owned by Unconsolidated Entities

 

At December 31, 2010, we had ownership interests in (i) PSB, which owned approximately 21.8 million net rentable square feet of commercial space at December 31, 2010, (ii) Shurgard Europe, which had ownership interests in 188 facilities with approximately 10 million net rentable square feet of storage space, and (iii) various affiliated limited partnerships that own an aggregate of 19 self-storage facilities with approximately 1 million net rentable square feet of storage space.  Collectively these entities are referred to as the “Unconsolidated Entities.”

 

PSB, which files financial statements with the SEC, and Shurgard Europe, have debt and other obligations that are not included in our consolidated financial statements.  The limited partnerships have no significant amounts of debt or other obligations.  See Note 5 to our December 31, 2010 consolidated financial statements for further disclosure regarding the assets, liabilities and operating results of the Unconsolidated Entities.

 

Limitations on Debt

 

Without the consent of holders of the various series of Senior Preferred Shares, we may not take any action that would result in a ratio of ''Debt'' to ''Assets'' (the ''Debt Ratio'') in excess of 50%.  As of December 31, 2010, the Debt Ratio was approximately 4%.  ''Debt'' means the liabilities (other than ''accrued and other liabilities'' and “redeemable noncontrolling interests'') that should, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, be reflected on our consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination.  ''Assets'' means our total assets before a reduction for accumulated depreciation and amortization that should, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, be reflected on the consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination.</div
>

 



  



9







  



 

 

Our bank and senior unsecured debt agreements contain various customary financial covenants, including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of default.

 

Employees

 

We have approximately 4,900 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2010 who render services on behalf of the Company, primarily personnel engaged in property operations.

 

Seasonality

 

We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of self-storage facilities with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months.  We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months.

 

Insurance

 

We have historically carried customary property, earthquake, general liability and workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance carriers, subject to customary levels of deductibles.  The aggregate limits on these policies of $75 million for property coverage and $102 million for general liability are higher than estimates of maximum probable loss that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exhausted.

 

Our tenant insurance program reinsures a program that provides insurance to certificate holders against claims for property losses due to specific named perils (earthquakes and floods are not covered by these policies) to goods stored by tenants at our self-storage facilities for individual limits up to a maximum of $5,000.  We have third-party insurance coverage for claims paid exceeding $1,000,000 resulting from any one individual event, to a limit of $25,000,000.  At December 31, 2010, there were approximately 621,000 certificate holders held by our tenants participating in this program, representing aggregate coverage of approximately $1.4 billion.  Because each certificate represents insurance of goods held by a tenant at our self-storage facilities, the geographic concentration of this $1.4 billion 
in coverage is dispersed throughout all of our U.S. facilities.  We rely on a third-party insurance company to provide the insurance and are subject to licensing requirements and regulations in several states.

 




  



10







  



 

 

ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors

 

In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the Company.  This section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of Item 1.

 

Since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition.

 

The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate ownership.    Since we derive substantially all of our income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of acquiring and owning real estate-related assets, including:  

 





•  


lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale;  




 





•  


changes in general economic or local conditions;  




 





•  


natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods; which could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage; 




 





•  


potential terrorist attacks;  




 





•  


changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area;  




 





•  


the impact of environmental protection laws;  




 





•  


changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds which may render the sale of a nonstrategic property difficult or unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit markets;  




 





•  


increases in insurance premiums, property tax assessments and other operating and maintenance expenses;




 





•  


transactional costs and liabilities, including transfer taxes;




 





•  


adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and  




 





•  


tenant and employment-related claims.  




 

In addition, we self-insure certain of our property loss, liability, and workers compensation risks for which other real estate companies may use third-party insurers.  This results in a higher risk of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts, as described in Note 13 under “Insurance and Loss Exposure” to our December 31, 2010 consolidated financial statements.

 

There is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives.    Most of our properties are self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010.  Local market conditions play a significant part in how competition will affect us. Competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses.  Any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate may accelerate competition.  Further development of self-storage facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage facilities in the market areas in which we operate.</fon
t>

 



  



11







  



 

 

We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities.    As an owner and operator of real properties, under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we are required to clean up spills or other releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties.  Certain environmental laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances.  In some cases, liability may not be limited to the value of the property.  The presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any resulting contamination, whether from environmental or microbial issues, also may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to sell
, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its property as collateral.

 

We have conducted preliminary environmental assessments of most of our properties (and conduct these assessments in connection with property acquisitions) to evaluate the environmental condition of, and potential environmental liabilities associated with, our properties.  These assessments generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis), as well as a review of available information regarding the site and publicly available data regarding conditions at other sites in the vicinity.  In connection with these property assessments, our operations and recent property acquisitions, we have become aware that prior operations or activities at some facilities or from nearby locations have or may have resulted in contamination to the so
il or groundwater at these facilities.   In circumstances where our environmental assessments disclose potential or actual contamination, we may attempt to obtain purchase price adjustments or indemnifications and, in appropriate circumstances, we obtain limited environmental insurance in connection with the properties acquired, but we cannot assure you that such protections will be sufficient to cover actual future liabilities nor that our assessments have identified all such risks. Although we cannot provide any assurance, based on the preliminary environmental assessments, we are not aware of any environmental contamination of our facilities material to our overall business, financial condition or results of operations.

 

There has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners and managers of rental properties relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other property damage.  When we receive a complaint concerning moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures in accordance with guidelines and protocols we have developed with the assistance of outside experts.  We seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve moisture infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims.  However, we can give no assurance that material legal claims relating to moisture infiltration and the presence of, or exposure to, mold will not arise in the fut
ure.

 

Delays in development and fill-up of our properties would reduce our profitability.    From January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2010, we invested $106 million in development costs with respect to 11 new facilities.  Shurgard Europe has developed and opened 41 facilities since January 1, 2006 at a cost of approximately $317 million.  Development and fill-up of these storage facilities is subject to significant contingencies such as obtaining appropriate governmental approvals.  If we or Shurgard Europe were to commence significant development of facilities, construction delays due to weather, unforeseen site conditions, the need to obtain governmental approvals, personnel problems, and other factors, as well as cost ov
erruns, would adversely affect our profitability.  Delays in the rent-up of newly developed storage space as a result of competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors, would adversely affect our profitability.

 

Property taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on investments.    Each of our properties is subject to real property taxes.  These real property taxes may increase in the future as property tax rates change and as our properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities.  Recent local government shortfalls in tax revenue may cause pressure to increase tax rates or assessment levels or impose new taxes.  Such increases could adversely impact our profitability.

 

We must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire and safety regulations, which can require significant expenditures.    All our properties must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with related regulations (the “ADA”).  The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities.  Various state laws impose similar requirements.  A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state laws could lead to government imposed fines on us and/or litigation, which could also involve an award of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance.
60; In addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations.  Compliance with these requirements can require us to spend substantial amounts of money, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders.  Failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities.

 



  



12







  



 

 

We incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims.    From time to time we must resolve tenant claims and employment-related claims by corporate level and field personnel.

 

Global economic conditions adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital.

 

There continues to be global economic uncertainty, elevated levels of unemployment, reduced levels of economic activity, and it is uncertain as to when economic conditions will improve.  These negative economic conditions in the markets where we operate facilities, and other events or factors that adversely affect disposable incomes, have and are likely to continue to adversely affect our business.

 

Although conditions in financial and credit markets improved during 2010, our ability to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates has been in the past, and may in the future be adversely affected by challenging credit market conditions.  The issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business.  While we currently believe that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and our retained cash flow from operations to continue to operate our business as usual, turbulence in the credit markets and in the national economy could adversely affect our access to capital and adversely impact earnings growth that might otherwise result from the acquisition and development of real estate facilities.

 

The acquisition of existing properties is a significant component of our long-term growth strategy, and  acquisitions of existing properties are subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results.

 

We acquire existing properties, either in individual transactions or as part of the acquisition of other storage operators.  In addition to the general risks related to real estate described above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties, we are also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and the integration of acquired properties into our operations.

 

Any failure to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions and to successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing business could negatively impact our financial results.  If acquired facilities are not properly integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer.

 

To fully realize any anticipated benefits from an acquisition, we must successfully integrate the property into our operating platform that permits cost savings to be realized and targeted revenue levels to be achieved.  It is possible that failures or unexpected circumstances in the integration process could result in a decline in occupancy and/or rental rates at the acquired facilities or our existing properties.  In addition, the integration process generally results in changes to the processes, standards, procedures,  practices, policies and compensation arrangements in the facilities acquired, which can  adversely affect our ability to maintain the existing relationships with tenants and employees. These risks are more pronounced with larger acquisitions.

 

Acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may increase our property tax expense. Facilities that we acquire are subject to property tax reappraisal.   The reappraisal process is subject to judgment of governmental agencies regarding estimated real estate values and other factors, and as a result there is a significant degree of uncertainty in estimating the property tax expense of an acquired property.  Reappraisal can result in substantial increases to the ongoing property tax payments as compared to the amounts paid by the seller.  In future or recent acquisitions of properties, if actual property tax expenses following reappraisal exceed what we expected in making the acquisition decision, our operating results could
 be negatively impacted.

 



  



13







  



 

 

As a result of our ownership of 49% of the international operations of Shurgard Europe with a book value of $264.7 million at December 31, 2010, and our loan to Shurgard Europe aggregating $495.2 million at December 31, 2010, we are exposed to additional risks related to international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results.

 

We have limited experience in European operations, which may adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in Europe.  In addition, European operations have specific inherent risks, including without limitation the following:

 





·  


currency risks, including currency fluctuations, which can impact the fair value of our $264.7 million book value equity investment in Shurgard Europe, as well as interest payments and the net proceeds to be received upon repayment of our loan to Shurgard Europe; 




 





·  


unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements,  




 





·  


potentially adverse tax burdens;  




 





·  


burdens of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws;




 





·  


the potential impact of collective bargaining;




 





·  


obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash;  




 





·  


regional, national and local political uncertainty;  




 





·  


economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets;  




 





·  


difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;  




 





·  


reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries;  




 





·  


inability to effectively control less than wholly-owned partnerships and joint ventures; and




 





·  


the importance of local senior management and the potential negative ramifications of the departure of key executives.




 

      Based upon current market conditions and recent operating result trends of Shurgard Europe, the following specific risks apply with respect to our investment in, and loan to, Shurgard Europe:

 





·  


Joint ventures that Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in have significant refinancing requirements.  Shurgard Europe’s two joint ventures collectively had approximately €206 million ($273 million) of outstanding debt payable to third parties at December 31, 2010.  These loans are secured by the joint ventures’ respective facilities, and are not guaranteed by Public Storage, Shurgard Europe, or any third party.  One of the joint venture loans, totaling €95 million ($126 million), is due May 2011, with a right to extend one year, and the other joint venture loan, totaling €111 million ($147 million), is due in July 2013.




 

If Shurgard Europe’s joint ventures were unable to refinance or otherwise repay these loans when due, it is our expectation that the loans would be repaid with each joint venture partner contributing their pro rata share towards repayment.  Shurgard Europe’s pro rata share, in the aggregate, would be approximately €41 million ($55 million), which Shurgard Europe would be required to fund either from available cash on hand or equity contributions from Public Storage and our joint venture partner.  Further, it is also possible that Shurgard Europe’s joint venture partner would be unable to contribute its pro rata share to repay the loans and may trigger, through its rights under the related partnership documents, the liquidatio
n of the partnership, which could result in Shurgard Europe’s acquisition of its joint venture partner’s interest or the sale of the properties to third parties, with potential loss or reduction to our investment if the liquidation proceeds were not sufficient.

 



  



14







  



 

 





·  


Shurgard Europe’s ability to refinance its $495.2 million loan from us, which is due in March 2013, may be limited due to market conditions.  Shurgard Europe owes us €373.7 million ($495.2 million at December 31, 2010), and this loan is due in March 2013.  If Shurgard Europe is unable to obtain financing to raise funds to repay our loan due to a constrained equity or credit environment or other factors, we may have to negotiate an equity or debt contribution by our joint venture partner to Shurgard Europe, extend the loan, or otherwise exercise our lender rights.




 





·  


Shurgard Europe’s Same Store operating trends were recently negative.  While Shurgard Europe had a 1.7% increase in revenue in the year ended December 31, 2010, Shurgard Europe had negative revenue growth in 2009.  Shurgard Europe could have reductions in Same Store revenues in the future, which would adversely impact their operating results and, as a result, the value of our investment in Shurgard Europe.  Such reductions may negatively impact Shurgard Europe’s liquidity and ability to repay its debt, including the debt owed to Public Storage, due to declining interest coverage ratios and other similar metrics upon which potential lenders typically base their lending decisions.




 

We are subject to risks related to our ownership of assets in joint venture structures.

 

We have interests in several joint ventures that may present additional risks, including without limitation, the following:

 





·  


risks related to the financial strength, common business goals and strategies and cooperation of the venture partner;




 





·  


the inability to take some actions with respect to the joint venture activities that we may believe are favorable, if our joint venture partner does not agree;




 





·  


the risk that we could lose our REIT status based upon actions of the joint ventures if we are unable to effectively control these indirect investments;




 





·  


the risk that we may not control the legal entity that has title to the real estate;




 





·  


the risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders, or that lenders may view assets held in joint ventures as less favorable as collateral;




 





·  


the risk that the joint ventures could take actions which may negatively impact our preferred shares and debt ratings, to the extent that we could not prevent these actions;




 





·  


the risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that we would otherwise deem favorable, due to non-compete clauses in our joint venture arrangements; and




 





·  


the risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with our joint venture partners.




 




  



15







  







The Hughes Family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. 

 

At December 31, 2010, B. Wayne Hughes, Chairman of the Board of Trustees and his family (the “Hughes Family”) owned approximately 16.7% of our aggregate outstanding common shares.  Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to own up to 47.66% of our outstanding common shares and also allows for cumulative voting in the election of trustees.  Consequently, the Hughes Family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders.

 

Certain provisions of Maryland law and in our declaration of trust and bylaws may prevent changes in control or otherwise discourage takeover attempts beneficial to shareholders.

 

Certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares.  Currently, the Board has opted not to subject the Company to the statutory limitations of either the business combination provisions or the control share acquisitions provisions of Maryland law, but the Board may change this option as to either statute in the future.  If the Board chooses to make them applicable to us, these provisions could delay, deter or prevent a transaction or change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of common shares or might otherwise be in their bes
t interest.  Similarly, (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares, (4)  the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the Board’s ability under Maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions without those decisions being subject to any heightened standard of conduct or standard of review, could have the same effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of the common shares or might otherwise be in common shareholders’ best interest.

 

To preserve our status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), our declaration of trust contains limitations on the number and value of shares of beneficial interest that any person may own.  These ownership limitations generally limit the ability of a person, other than the Hughes Family (as defined in our declaration of trust) and other than “designated investment entities” (as defined in our declaration of trust), to own more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in each case, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, unless an exemption is granted by our board of trustees.  These limitations could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction invo
lving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees.

 

If we failed to qualify as a REIT for income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends.

 

Investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a REIT for income tax purposes. REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements.  As a REIT, we must distribute with respect to each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders (which may take into account certain dividends paid in the subsequent year).  Other restrictions apply to our income and assets.  Our REIT status is also dependent upon the ongoing qualification of our affiliate, PSB, as a REIT, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company.

 

For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and are unable to avail ourselves of relief provisions set forth in the Code, we would be subject to federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we make any distributions to our shareholders.  Those taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings.  As a result, our failure to qualify as a REIT during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our shareholders.  Furthermore, unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we fail to qualify.

 



  



16







  



 

 

We may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders.

 

Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property.  Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the Company have elected to be treated as “taxable REIT subsidiaries” of the Company for federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT subsidiary is taxable as a regular corporation and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us in excess of a certain amount.  In addition, if we receive or accrue certain amounts and the underlying economic arrangements among our taxable REIT subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of amounts the Internal Revenue Servic
e deems reasonable between unrelated parties.  To the extent that the Company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders.

 

We have become increasingly dependent upon automated processes, telecommunications, and the Internet and are faced with system security and system failure risks.

 

We have become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes, and certain critical components of our operating systems are dependent upon third party providers.  As a result, we could be severely impacted by a catastrophic occurrence, such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack, or a circumstance that disrupted operations at our third party providers.  Even though we believe we utilize appropriate duplication and back-up procedures, a significant outage in our third party providers could negatively impact our operations.  In addition, a portion of our business operations are conducted over the Internet, increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system failures and disruptions of operations.  Experienced computer programmers may be able to penet
rate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns.  Nearly half of our new tenants come from sales channels dependent upon telecommunications (telephone or Internet).

 

We have no ownership interest in Canadian self-storage facilities owned or operated by the Hughes Family.

 

At December 31, 2010, the Hughes Family had ownership interests in, and operated, 52 self-storage facilities in Canada under the name “Public Storage”, which name we license to the Hughes Family for use in Canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis.  We currently do not own any interests in these facilities nor do we own any facilities in Canada.  We have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the self-storage facilities in Canada if the Hughes Family or the corporation agrees to sell them.  However, we have no ownership interest in the operations of this corporation, have no right to acquire their stock or assets unless the Hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit from the profits and increases in value of the Can
adian self-storage facilities.  Although we have no current plans to enter the Canadian self-storage market, if we choose to do so without acquiring the Hughes Family interests in their Canadian self-storage properties, our right to use the Public Storage name in Canada may be shared with the Hughes Family unless we are able to terminate the license agreement.

 

Through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the self-storage facilities in Canada in which the Hughes Family has ownership interests.  We acquired the tenant insurance business on December 31, 2001 through our acquisition of PS Insurance Company, or PSICH.  During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we received $605,000, $642,000 and $768,000 (based upon historical exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Canadian Dollar in effect as the revenues were earned), respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the Canadian facilities.  Since PSICH’s right to provide tenant reinsurance to the Canadian Facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue.

 

We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition.

 

Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance and restatement of our financial statements.

 



  



17







  



 

 

There can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as recently adopted legislation that expands health care coverage costs or facilitates union activity or federal legislative proposals to otherwise increase operating costs.

 

Our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth.

 

We hold Limited Lines Self Storage Insurance Agent licenses from a number of individual state Departments of Insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision.  This state governmental supervision could reduce our profitability or limit our growth by increasing the costs of regulatory compliance, limiting or restricting the products or services we provide or the methods by which we provide products and services, or subjecting our businesses to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings.  Our continued ability to maintain these Limited Lines Self Storage Insurance Agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions.  
Furthermore, state insurance departments conduct periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents.

 

In all jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities.  Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations.  Accordingly, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction.  No assurances can be given that our businesses can continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as it has been conducted in the past.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, revenues from our tenant reinsurance business represented approximately 4% of our revenues.

 

Terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets.

 

Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results.  There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S., the European Community, or their businesses or interests.  Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating results.  Further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack.  Such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk overall.  In addition, the adverse effects that such violen
t acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the U.S. to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results.

 

Developments in California may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.

 

We are headquartered in, and approximately one-fifth of our properties in the U.S. are located in, California, which like many other state and local jurisdictions is facing severe budgetary problems and deficits.  Action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed “Business Net Receipts Tax” or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations.




  



18







  



 

 

ITEM 1B