ITEM 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties,
    including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties
    described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are
    not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may
    impair our business operations. If any of the following risks
    actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of
    operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our
    goals. This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations,
    projections, intentions, or beliefs about future events that are
    intended as “forward-looking statements” under the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be
    read in conjunction with the section entitled
    “Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and
    Information,” included in Item 7
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations.”


 


    Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to
    quarter.  We typically experience lower gross and
    operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for
    our services and more difficult operating conditions.
    Additionally, our quarterly results also may be materially and
    adversely affected by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the timing and volume of work under contract;



 


     
        • 

    
    regional or general economic conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    the budgetary spending patterns of customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    variations in the margins of projects performed during any
    particular quarter;



 


     
        • 

    
    a change in the demand for our services caused by severe weather
    conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    increases in construction and design costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    the termination of existing agreements;



 


     
        • 

    
    losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by
    insurance;



 


     
        • 

    
    a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business;



 


     
        • 

    
    payment risk associated with the financial condition of our
    customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in bonding and lien requirements applicable to existing
    and new agreements;



 


     
        • 

    
    costs we incur to support growth internally or through
    acquisitions or otherwise;



 


     
        • 

    
    the timing and integration of acquisitions; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the timing and magnitude of acquisition integration costs and
    potential goodwill impairments.





 


    Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may
    not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any
    other quarter or for the entire year.


 


    An economic downturn may lead to less demand for our
    services.  Because the vast majority of our
    revenue is derived from a few industries, a downturn in any of
    those industries would adversely affect our results of
    operations. The telecommunications and utility markets
    experienced substantial change during 2002 and 2003 as evidenced
    by an increased number of bankruptcies in the telecommunications
    market, continued devaluation of many of our customers’
    debt and equity securities and pricing pressures resulting from
    challenges faced by major industry participants. These factors
    contributed to the delay and cancellation of projects and
    reduction of capital spending, which impacted our operations and
    our ability to grow at historical levels. A number of other
    factors, including financing conditions and potential
    bankruptcies in the industries we serve, could adversely affect
    our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital
    expenditures in the future or pay for past services. In
    addition,



    
    12



Table of Contents




    consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the
    electric power, gas, telecommunications or cable television
    industries may result in reduced spending by, or the loss of,
    one or more of our customers.


 


    Our industry is highly competitive.  Our
    industry is served by numerous small, owner-operated private
    companies, a few public companies and several large regional
    companies. In addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry
    into some of our industries. As a result, any organization that
    has adequate financial resources and access to technical
    expertise may become one of our competitors. Competition in the
    industry depends on a number of factors, including price.
    Certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost
    structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services
    at lower rates than we are able to provide. In addition, some of
    our competitors may have greater resources than we do. We cannot
    be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise,
    experience and resources to provide services that are superior
    in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot
    be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our
    competitive position within our industry or maintain our
    customer base at current levels. We also may face competition
    from the in-house service organizations of our existing or
    prospective customers. Electric power, gas, telecommunications
    and cable television service providers usually employ personnel
    who perform some of the same types of services we do. We cannot
    be certain that our existing or prospective customers will
    continue to outsource services in the future.


 


    We may be unsuccessful at generating internal
    growth.  Our ability to generate internal growth
    will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    expand the range of services we offer to customers to address
    their evolving network needs;



 


     
        • 

    
    attract new customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    increase the number of projects performed for existing customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    hire and retain qualified employees; and



 


     
        • 

    
    open additional facilities.





 


    In addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of
    projects available to us due to their inability to obtain
    capital or pay for services provided. Many of the factors
    affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond
    our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will
    be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow
    sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal
    growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve
    internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business.


 


    The Energy Policy Act of 2005 may fail to result in increased
    spending on the electric power transmission
    infrastructure.  Implementation of the Energy
    Policy Act of 2005 is still subject to considerable fiscal and
    regulatory uncertainty. Many of the regulations implementing the
    components of the Act have not been promulgated and many others
    have only recently been finalized, and the effect of these
    regulations, once implemented, is uncertain. As a result, the
    legislation may not result in increased spending on the electric
    power transmission infrastructure.


 


    Factors beyond our control may affect our ability to
    successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an
    adverse impact on our growth strategy.  Our
    business strategy includes expanding our presence in the
    industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies
    that complement or enhance our business. We expect to face
    competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our
    competitors may have greater financial resources or access to
    financing on more favorable terms than us. This competition may
    limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow
    through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions
    and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us.
    Acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant
    cash expenditures, debt incurrence or the issuance of
    securities. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative
    impact on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    Our financial results are based upon estimates and
    assumptions that may differ from actual
    results.  In preparing our consolidated financial
    statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States, several estimates and assumptions
    are used by management in determining the reported amounts of
    assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during
    the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and
    liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial
    statements. These estimates and assumptions must



    
    13



Table of Contents




    be made because certain information that is used in the
    preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future
    events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision
    from data available or is not capable of being readily
    calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some
    cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine
    and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates are
    primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful
    accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of property and
    equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and
    long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims liabilities,
    forfeiture estimates relating to stock-based compensation,
    revenue recognition under
    percentage-of-completion
    accounting and provision for income taxes. Actual results for
    all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and
    assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 


    Our use of
    percentage-of-completion
    accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of
    previously reported profits.  As discussed in
    Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Critical Accounting Policies” and in the notes to our
    consolidated financial statements included in Item 8
    hereof, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized on a
    percentage-of-completion
    method of accounting, using the
    cost-to-cost
    method. This method is used because management considers
    expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on
    these contracts. This accounting method is standard for
    fixed-price contracts. The
    percentage-of-completion
    accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract
    revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in
    proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or
    losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates
    of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses
    are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit
    estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract
    profitability. Further, a substantial portion of our contracts
    contain various cost and performance incentives. Penalties are
    recorded when known or finalized, which generally is during the
    latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record cost
    recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the
    amounts can be reasonably estimated. Actual collection of claims
    could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a
    reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In
    certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments
    could be significant.


 


    Our dependence upon fixed price contracts could adversely
    affect our business.  We currently generate, and
    expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenues under
    fixed price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing
    a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. The
    actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the
    costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with
    other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may
    cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ
    from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced
    profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of
    a particular project, variations from the estimated contract
    costs could have a significant impact on our operating results
    for any fiscal quarter or year.


 


    We are self-insured against potential
    liabilities.  Although we maintain insurance
    policies with respect to automobile, general liability,
    workers’ compensation and employers’ liability, those
    policies are subject to deductibles of $1.0 million to
    $2.0 million per occurrence, and we are primarily
    self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the
    applicable deductible. In addition, beginning August 1,
    2006, we have been subject to an additional cumulative aggregate
    liability of up to $2.0 million on workers’
    compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per
    occurrence per policy year. We also have an employee health care
    benefit plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining
    agreements, which is subject to a deductible of
    $250,000 per claimant per year. Losses up to the deductible
    amounts are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate
    liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred
    but not yet reported, with assistance from a third-party
    actuary. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess
    and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of
    an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to
    other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the
    effectiveness of our safety program. If we were to experience
    insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our
    results of operations could be materially and adversely affected
    in a given period.


 


    Our casualty insurance carrier for prior periods is
    experiencing financial distress, which may require us to make
    payments for losses that otherwise would be
    insured.  Our casualty insurance carrier for the
    policy periods from August 1, 2000 to February 28,
    2003 is experiencing financial distress, but is currently paying
    valid claims. In the event that this insurer’s financial
    situation deteriorates, we may be required to pay certain
    obligations that



    
    14



Table of Contents




    otherwise would have been paid by this insurer. We estimate that
    the total future claim amount that this insurer is currently
    obligated to pay on our behalf for the above mentioned policy
    periods is approximately $6.2 million; however, our
    estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts is
    between $3.6 million and $8.5 million. The actual
    amounts ultimately paid by us related to these claims, if any,
    may vary materially from the above range and could be impacted
    by further claims development and the extent to which the
    insurer can not honor its obligations. In any event, we do not
    expect any failure by this insurer to honor its obligations to
    us to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition;
    however, the impact could be material to our results of
    operations or cash flow in a given period.


 


    We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact
    relating to occupational health and safety
    matters.  Our operations are subject to extensive
    laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe
    conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will
    continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational
    health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree
    of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will
    avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken
    what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered
    fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in
    the future. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for
    bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs
    and liabilities. In addition, if our safety record were to
    substantially deteriorate over time, our customers could cancel
    our contracts and not award us future business.


 


    Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a
    result of goodwill impairments.  When we acquire a
    business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal
    to the excess amount we pay for the business, including
    liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and
    intangible assets of the business we acquire. Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 provides that
    goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful
    lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually
    for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful
    lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives.
    SFAS No. 142 provides specific guidance for testing
    goodwill and other
    non-amortized
    intangible assets for impairment. SFAS No. 142
    requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions
    when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the
    fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities,
    including, among other things, an assessment of market
    conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of
    capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the
    reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair
    value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash
    flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation
    approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our
    impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. As part of
    our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill in the
    amount of $56.8 million was written off as a non-cash
    operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected
    future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which
    has historically served the cable television industry. Any
    future impairments would negatively impact our results of
    operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized.


 


    We may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that either
    we have acquired or that we may acquire in the
    future.  We cannot be sure that we will
    successfully integrate our acquired companies with our existing
    operations without substantial costs, delays or other
    operational or financial problems. If we do not implement proper
    overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy
    could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices
    at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could
    be adversely affected. Integrating our acquired companies
    involves a number of special risks which could have a negative
    impact on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect;



 


     
        • 

    
    diversion of our management’s attention from operational
    and other matters;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of
    acquired companies;



 


     
        • 

    
    inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies;



 


     
        • 

    
    risks associated with unanticipated events or
    liabilities; and



 


     
        • 

    
    potential disruptions of our business.






    
    15



Table of Contents



 


    If one of our acquired companies suffers customer
    dissatisfaction or performance problems, the reputation of our
    entire company could suffer.


 


    We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services,
    and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have,
    difficulty collecting receivables from major customers that have
    filed bankruptcy or are otherwise experiencing financial
    difficulties.  We grant credit, generally without
    collateral, to our customers, which include electric power and
    gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system
    operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and
    builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial
    properties located primarily in the United States. Consequently,
    we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in
    business and economic factors throughout the United States. In
    the past, our customers in the telecommunications business have
    experienced significant financial difficulties and in several
    instances have filed for bankruptcy. A number of our utility
    customers are also experiencing business challenges in the
    current business climate. If additional major customers file for
    bankruptcy or continue to experience financial difficulties, or
    if anticipated recoveries relating to receivables in existing
    bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize, we
    could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of
    current allowances provided. In addition, material changes in
    any of our customer’s revenues or cash flows could affect
    our ability to collect amounts due from them.


 


    The industries we serve are subject to rapid technological
    and structural changes that could reduce the demand for the
    services we provide.  The electric power, gas,
    telecommunications and cable television industries are
    undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances
    that could, in certain cases, reduce the demand for our services
    or otherwise negatively impact our business. New or developing
    technologies could displace the wireline systems used for voice,
    video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing
    technology may allow telecommunications and cable television
    companies to significantly improve their networks without
    physically upgrading them.


 


    A portion of our business depends on our ability to provide
    surety bonds. We may be unable to compete for or work on certain
    projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety
    bonds.  Surety market conditions currently are
    difficult as a result of significant losses incurred by many
    sureties in recent periods, both in the construction industry as
    well as in certain larger corporate bankruptcies. We have
    granted security interests in various of our assets to
    collateralize our obligations to the surety. Further, under
    standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue
    bonds on a
    project-by-project
    basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the
    posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or
    renewing any bonds.


 


    Current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our
    surety’s assessment of our operating and financial risk,
    could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew,
    or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and
    could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken
    on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or
    eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include
    seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more
    business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of
    collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or
    cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely
    manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were
    to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability
    of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on
    certain projects.


 


    Many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice, and we
    may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts if they are
    canceled or as they are completed or expire.  We
    could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and
    liquidity if any of the following occur:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our customers cancel a significant number of contracts;



 


     
        • 

    
    we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts
    upon re-bid;



 


     
        • 

    
    we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and
    cannot replace them with similar projects; or



 


     
        • 

    
    we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent
    with any decrease in our revenue.





 


    Many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice,
    typically
    30-90 days,
    even if we are not in default under the contract. Certain of our
    customers assign work to us on a
    project-by-project
    basis under master service agreements. Under these agreements,
    our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific
    amount of work to us. Our operations could decline significantly
    if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us. Many



    
    16



Table of Contents




    of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are
    opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. There can
    be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our
    existing contracts that come up for re-bid.


 


    The departure of key personnel could disrupt our
    business.  We depend on the continued efforts of
    our executive officers and on senior management of our operating
    units, including the businesses we acquire. Although we have
    entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three
    years with most of our executive officers and certain other key
    employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will
    continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The
    loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain
    qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to
    manage our business. We do not carry key-person life insurance
    on any of our employees.


 


    Our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations
    and our ability to complete future
    acquisitions.  As of December 31, 2006,
    approximately 50% of our employees were covered by collective
    bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these agreements
    prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that
    strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes
    or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with
    our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease
    our revenue. In addition, our ability to complete future
    acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union
    status for a variety of reasons. For instance, our union
    agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a
    business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to
    become affiliated with a union based company.


 


    Our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to
    attract and retain qualified employees.  Our
    ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be
    limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled
    personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We cannot be
    certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled
    labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our
    growth strategy. For instance, we may experience shortages of
    qualified journeyman linemen. In addition, we cannot be certain
    that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a
    shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. Labor
    shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to
    maintain our business or grow our revenues.


 


    Our business growth could outpace the capability of our
    corporate management infrastructure.  We cannot be
    certain that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our
    operations as they expand. Future growth also could impose
    significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior
    management, including the need to recruit and integrate new
    senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that
    we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers
    and executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our
    growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain
    additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand
    our operations or execute our business plan.


 


    Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in
    significant liabilities.  Our operations are
    subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including
    those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products,
    PCBs, fuel storage and air quality. We perform work in many
    different types of underground environments. If the field
    location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are
    present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location
    maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil,
    some of which may contain pollutants. In such cases, these
    objects may rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants.
    In such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages,
    and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties
    providing the incorrect information. In addition, we perform
    directional drilling operations below certain environmentally
    sensitive terrains and water bodies. Due to the inconsistent
    nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such
    directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in
    the release of subsurface materials. These subsurface materials
    may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law,
    potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. We also
    own and lease several facilities at which we store our
    equipment. Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks
    which are above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we
    could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as
    potential fines.


 


    In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of
    existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously
    unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new
    clean-up
    requirements could require us to incur significant costs or
    become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could
    harm our financial condition and results of operations. In
    certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants
    from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such
    cleanup and other obligations and liabilities that we believe
    are



    
    17



Table of Contents




    adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. However,
    such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of
    our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or
    future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse
    effect on our business operations or financial condition.
    Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify
    or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities
    relating to any acquired business.


 


    Risks associated with operating in international markets
    could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our
    business and prospects.  While only a small
    percentage of our revenue is currently derived from
    international markets, we hope to continue to expand the volume
    of services that we provide internationally. We presently
    conduct our international sales efforts in Canada, Mexico and
    selected countries overseas, but expect that the number of
    countries that we operate in could expand significantly over the
    next few years. Economic conditions, including those resulting
    from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts
    may adversely affect the global economy, our customers and their
    ability to pay for our services. In addition, there are numerous
    risks inherent in conducting our business internationally,
    including, but not limited to, potential instability in
    international markets, changes in regulatory requirements,
    currency fluctuations in foreign countries, and complex U.S. and
    foreign laws and treaties, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act. These risks could restrict our ability to provide
    services to international customers and could adversely affect
    our ability to operate our business profitably.


 


    Opportunities within the government arena could lead to
    increased governmental regulation applicable to us and
    unrecoverable start up costs.  Most government
    contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding
    process. As we pursue increased opportunities in the government
    arena, management’s focus associated with the start up and
    bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities.
    If we were to be successful in being awarded government
    contracts, a significant amount of costs could be required
    before any revenues were realized from these contracts. In
    addition, as a government contractor, we would be subject to a
    number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities,
    any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties
    or a loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and
    investigate government contractors. Government agencies may
    review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost
    structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and
    standards. If government agencies determine through these audits
    or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific
    contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those
    costs or may require the contractor to refund previously
    reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we
    engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and
    criminal penalties. In addition, if the government were to even
    allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm
    to our reputation. Many government contracts must be
    appropriated each year. If appropriations are not made in
    subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential
    revenues from any awarded contracts.


 


    We may not be successful in continuing to meet the
    requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002.  The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has
    introduced many requirements applicable to us regarding
    corporate governance and financial reporting, including the
    requirements for management to report on our internal controls
    over financial reporting and for our independent registered
    public accounting firm to attest to this report. During 2006, we
    continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these
    requirements. As of December 31, 2006, our internal control
    over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no
    assurance that our internal control over financial reporting
    will be effective in future years. Failure to maintain effective
    internal controls could result in a decrease in the market value
    of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities,
    the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers,
    penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements.


 


    We may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to
    finance desired growth.  If we cannot secure
    additional financing in the future on acceptable terms, we may
    be unable to support our growth strategy. We cannot readily
    predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past
    services or the timing, size and success of our acquisition
    efforts. Using cash for acquisitions limits our financial
    flexibility and makes us more likely to seek additional capital
    through future debt or equity financings. Our existing debt
    agreements contain significant restrictions on our operational
    and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur
    additional debt or conduct equity financings, and if we seek
    more debt we may have to agree to additional covenants that
    limit our operational and financial flexibility. When we seek
    additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that
    additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms
    acceptable to us or at all.



    
    18



Table of Contents



 


    Our 4.5% convertible subordinated notes are presently
    convertible.  As a result of our common stock
    satisfying the market price condition of the convertible
    subordinated notes during the fourth quarter of 2006, the notes
    are presently convertible at the option of each holder during
    the first quarter of 2007. We have the right to deliver shares
    of our common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of
    our common stock upon a conversion of the notes. The notes may
    be convertible during future fiscal quarters upon the
    satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions
    in future periods. The number of shares issuable upon a
    conversion of the notes will be determined based on a conversion
    rate of approximately $11.14 per share. In the event that
    all notes were converted for common stock, we would issue an
    aggregate of 24.2 million shares of our common stock. The
    conversion of some or all of our 4.5% convertible
    subordinated notes into our common stock could cause substantial
    dilution to existing stockholders. Any sales in the public
    market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could
    adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.
    In addition, the possibility that the notes may be converted may
    encourage short selling by market participants because the
    conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common
    stock.


 


    If we elect to satisfy the conversion obligation in cash, the
    amount of cash payable upon conversion of the notes will be
    determined by the product of (i) the number of shares
    issuable for the principal amount of the converted notes at a
    conversion rate of approximately $11.14 per share and
    (ii) the average closing price of our common stock during a
    20-day
    trading period following the holders unretracted election to
    convert the notes. To the extent that the average closing price
    of our common stock during this period exceeds $11.14 per
    share, we will be required to pay cash in excess of the
    principal amount of the notes being converted, which would
    result in the recording of a loss on early extinguishment of
    debt.


 


    Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could
    make an acquisition of our company more
    difficult.  The following provisions of our
    certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect,
    as well as our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law, could
    discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a
    change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be
    willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors
    to issue “blank check” preferred stock and to adopt
    amendments to our bylaws;



 


     
        • 

    
    our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of
    stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be
    considered at stockholder meetings;



 


     
        • 

    
    our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right
    of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to
    act by written consent;



 


     
        • 

    
    we are subject to provisions of Delaware law which prohibit us
    from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions
    with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three
    years following the date such stockholder became classified as
    an interested stockholder; and



 


     
        • 

    
    we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that could cause
    substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to
    acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors or
    permitted by the stockholder rights plan.





 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B