Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”Seasonality – Praxair’s business is generally not subject to seasonal fluctuations to any significant extent.Research and Development – Praxair’s research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases and the development of new markets and applications for these gases. This results in the development of new advanced air separation and hydrogen process technologies and the frequent introduction of new industrial gas applications. Research and development for industrial gases is principally conducted at Tonawanda, New York; Burr Ridge, Illinois; Shanghai, China; and Bangalore, India.4Table of ContentsPraxair conducts research and development for its surface technologies to improve the quality and durability of coatings and the use of specialty powders for new applications and industries. Surface technologies research is conducted at Indianapolis, Indiana.Patents and Trademarks – Praxair owns or licenses a large number of United States and foreign patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes. Praxair’s patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. While these patents and licenses are considered important to our individual businesses, Praxair does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any one particular patent, or patent license, or family of patents. Praxair also owns a large number of valuable trademarks. Only the "Praxair" trademark is important to our business as a whole.Raw Materials and Energy Costs – Energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. Most of Praxair’s energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution.The supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where the company conducts business. However, energy availability and price is unpredictable and may pose unforeseen future risks.For carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. Praxair has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions.Competition – Praxair operates within a highly competitive environment. Some of its competitors are larger in size and capital base than Praxair. Competition is based on price, product quality, delivery, reliability, technology and service to customers.Major competitors in the industrial gases industry both in the United States and worldwide include Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., Airgas Inc., L’Air Liquide S.A., and Linde AG. Principal competitors for the surface technologies  business are Chromalloy Gas Turbine Corporation, a subsidiary of Sequa Corporation, Bodycote, PLC, and OC Oerlikon Corp AG. There are other surface coating competitors that compete on a local geography basis.Employees and Labor Relations – As of December 31, 2015, Praxair had 26,657 employees worldwide. Of this number, 9,959 are employed in the United States. Praxair has collective bargaining agreements with unions at numerous locations throughout the world, which expire at various dates. Praxair considers relations with its employees to be good.Environment – Information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Environmental Matters” in Item 7 of this 10-K.Available Information – The company makes its periodic and current reports available, free of charge, on or through its website, www.praxair.com, as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Investors may also access from the company website other investor information such as press releases and presentations. Information on the company’s website is not incorporated by reference herein.In addition, the public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically.Executive Officers – The following Executive Officers have been elected by the Board of Directors and serve at the pleasure of the Board. It is expected that the Board will elect officers annually following each annual meeting of shareholders.Stephen F. Angel, 60, is Chief Executive Officer of Praxair, Inc. since January 1, 2007, and Chairman since May 1, 2007.  Before becoming the Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Angel served as President and Chief Operating Officer from March to December 2006, and as Executive Vice President from 2001 to March 2006.  Prior to joining Praxair in 2001, Mr. Angel spent 22 years in a variety of management positions with General Electric. Mr. Angel is a director of PPG Industries, Inc. where he serves on the Officers-Directors Compensation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Technology and Environment Committee. He is also a member of the executive committee of The Business Council, the U.S. - Brazil CEO Forum, a member of the Board of the U.S. - China Business Council, and is a former director of the American Chemistry Council. Guillermo Bichara, 41, was appointed Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Praxair, Inc. effective January 1, 2015.  Prior to this, from 2013-2014, he was Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. From 2011-2013, Mr. Bichara  served as Associate General Counsel with responsibility for Praxair Europe, Praxair Mexico and corporate transactions.  He was Vice President and General Counsel of Praxair Asia from 2007-2011, and joined Praxair in 5Table of Contents2006 as director of legal affairs at Praxair Mexico.  Prior to joining Praxair, Mr. Bichara served as corporate counsel at CEMEX, Mexico's global leader in the building materials industry, and was a foreign associate and counsel, respectively, at the law firms of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom and White & Case.Elizabeth T. Hirsch, 62, is Vice President and Controller of Praxair, Inc. since December 2010. Prior to becoming Controller, she served as Praxair’s Director of Investor Relations since 2002 and as Vice President of Investor Relations since October 2010. She joined Praxair in 1995 as Director of Corporate Finance and later served as Assistant Treasurer. Previously, she had fifteen years of experience in corporate banking, primarily at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company.Karen L. Keegans, 50, was appointed Vice President and Chief Human Resources officer in 2014.  Ms. Keegans joined Praxair in 2012 as vice president, HR, North America, from Monsanto where she had spent the previous six years.  While at Monsanto, Ms. Keegans had increasing HR leadership roles, gaining global exposure across all business areas and was most recently VP, HR, Global Manufacturing.Eduardo F. Menezes, 52, was promoted to Executive Vice President from Senior Vice President effective March 1, 2012.  He oversees Praxair’s businesses in Europe, Mexico, and South America, and Praxair’s U.S. and global hydrogen operations. From 2010 to March 2011, he was a Vice President of Praxair with responsibility for the North American Industrial Gases business.  From 2007 to 2010, he was President of Praxair Europe.  He served as Managing Director of Praxair’s business in Mexico from 2004 to 2007, as Vice President and General Manager for Praxair Distribution, Inc. from 2003 to 2004 and as Vice President, U.S. West Region, for North American Industrial Gases, from 2000 to 2003.Anne K. Roby, age 51, was named Senior Vice President on January 1, 2014, responsible for Global Supply Systems, R&D, Global Market Development, Global Operations Excellence, Global Procurement, Sustainability and Safety, Health and Environment. From 2011-2013, she served as President of Praxair Asia, responsible for Praxair’s industrial gases business in China, India, South Korea and Thailand as well as the electronics market globally. In 2010, Dr. Roby became President of Praxair Electronics, after having served as Vice President, Global Sales, for Praxair from 2009-2010. Prior to this, she was Vice President of the U.S. South Region from 2006-2009. Dr. Roby joined Praxair in 1991 as a development associate in the Company’s R&D organization and was promoted to other positions of increasing responsibility.  Scott E. Telesz, 48, was promoted to Executive Vice President from Senior Vice President, effective March 1, 2012. He is responsible for Praxair’s U.S. atmospheric gases businesses, and it’s business in Canada, Praxair Distribution, Praxair Surface Technologies, and Helium-Rare Gases. Before joining Praxair in 2010, he was a Vice President from 2007 to 2010 of SABIC Innovative Plastics, a major division of Riyadh-based Saudi Basic Industries Corporation, a global manufacturer of chemicals, fertilizers, plastics and metals. From 1998 to 2007, he held a variety of general management positions with General Electric, and from 1989 to 1998, Mr. Telesz held several positions, including Engagement Manager, in the United States and Australia, with McKinsey & Company.Matthew J. White, 43, was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective January 1, 2014.  Prior to this, Mr. White was President of Praxair Canada from 2011-2014.  Mr. White joined Praxair in 2004 as finance director of Praxair’s largest business unit, North American Industrial Gases.  In 2008, he became Vice President and Controller of Praxair, then was named Vice President and Treasurer in 2010.  Before joining Praxair, Mr. White was vice president, finance, at Fisher Scientific and before that he held various financial positions, including group controller, at GenTek, a manufacturing and performance chemicals company.ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORSDue to the size and geographic reach of the company’s operations, a wide range of factors, many of which are outside of the company’s control, could materially affect the company’s future operations and financial performance. Management believes the following risks may significantly impact the company:General Economic Conditions – Weakening economic conditions in markets in which the company does business may adversely impact the company’s financial results and/or cash flows.Praxair serves a diverse group of industries across more than 50 countries, which generally leads to financial stability through various business cycles. However, a broad decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by its customers could adversely affect the demand for Praxair’s products and impair the ability of our customers to satisfy their obligations to the company, resulting in uncollected receivables and/or unanticipated contract terminations or project delays. In addition, many of the company’s customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the chemicals, electronics, metals and energy industries. Downturns in these industries may adversely impact the company during these cycles. Additionally, such conditions could impact the utilization of the company’s manufacturing capacity 6Table of Contentswhich may require the company to recognize impairment losses on tangible assets such as property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets such as goodwill, customer relationships or intellectual property.Cost and Availability of Raw Materials and Energy – Increases in the cost of energy and raw materials and/or disruption in the supply of these materials could result in lost sales or reduced profitability.Energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. Most of Praxair’s energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. Praxair attempts to minimize the financial impact of variability in these costs through the management of customer contracts and reducing demand through operational productivity and energy efficiency. Large customer contracts typically have escalation and pass-through clauses to recover energy and feedstock costs. Such attempts may not successfully mitigate cost variability which could negatively impact its financial condition or results of operations. The supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where it conducts business. However, regional energy conditions are unpredictable and may pose future risk.For carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. Where feasible, Praxair sources several of these gases, including carbon dioxide, hydrogen and calcium carbide, as chemical or industrial byproducts. In addition, Praxair has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. A disruption in supply of such raw materials could impact the company’s ability to meet contractual supply commitments.International Events and Circumstances – The company’s international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad and international events and circumstances may adversely impact its business, financial condition or results of operations.Praxair has substantial international operations which are subject to risks including devaluations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, the imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, possible nationalization and/or expropriation of assets, domestic and international tax laws and compliance with governmental regulations. These events could have an adverse effect on the international operations in the future by reducing the demand for its products, decreasing the prices at which it can sell its products, reducing the U.S. dollar value of revenue from international operations or otherwise having an adverse effect on its business. Global Financial Markets Conditions – Macroeconomic factors may impact the company’s ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of obtaining financing which may adversely impact the company’s financial results and/or cash flows.Volatility and disruption in the U.S. and global credit and equity markets, from time to time, could make it more difficult for Praxair to obtain financing for its operations and/or could increase the cost of obtaining financing. In addition, the company’s borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on the company’s performance as measured by certain criteria such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these debt ratings could increase the cost of borrowing or make it more difficult to obtain financing. While the impact of volatility in the global credit markets cannot be predicted with certainty, the company believes that it has sufficient operating flexibility, cash reserves, and funding sources to maintain adequate amounts of liquidity to meet its business needs around the world.Competitor Actions – The inability to effectively compete could adversely impact results of operations.Praxair operates within a highly competitive environment worldwide. Competition is based on price, product quality, delivery, reliability, technology and service to customers. Competitors’ behavior related to these areas could potentially have significant impacts on the company’s financial results.Governmental Regulations – The company is subject to a variety of United States and foreign government regulations. Changes in these regulations could have an adverse impact on the business, financial position and results of operations.The company is subject to regulations in the following areas, among others:•Environmental protection including climate change;•Domestic and international tax laws and currency controls;•Safety;•Securities laws (e.g., SEC and generally accepted accounting principles in the United States);•Trade and import/ export restrictions;7Table of Contents•Antitrust matters;•Global anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;•Healthcare regulationsChanges in these or other regulatory areas may impact the company’s profitability, may require the company to spend additional resources to comply with the regulations, or may restrict the company’s ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations could result in penalties or sanctions that could have an adverse impact on the company’s financial results and/or reputation. Environmental protection is discussed further below.Praxair is subject to various environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the storage, handling and disposal of chemicals, hazardous substances and wastes, the remediation of contamination, the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, and other potential climate change initiatives. Violations of these laws could result in substantial penalties, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, or sanctions. The company may also be subject to liability for the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at properties that it owns or operates and at other properties where Praxair or its predecessors have operated or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes. Although management does not believe that any such liabilities will have a material adverse impact on its financial position and results of operations, management cannot provide assurance that such costs will not increase in the future or will not become material. See the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Environmental Matters” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.Catastrophic Events – Catastrophic events could disrupt the operations of the company and/or its customers and suppliers and may have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations.The occurrence of catastrophic events or natural disasters such as extreme weather, including hurricanes and floods;health epidemics; acts of war or terrorism; could disrupt or delay the company’s ability to produce and distribute its products to customers and could potentially expose the company to third-party liability claims. In addition, such events could impact the company’s customers and suppliers resulting in temporary or long-term outages and/or the limitation of supply of energy and other raw materials used in normal business operations. To mitigate these risks, Praxair evaluates the direct and indirect business risks,: consults with vendors, insurance providers and industry experts; makes investments in suitably resilient design and technology, and conducts regular reviews of the business risks with management. Despite these steps, however, these situations are outside the company’s control and may have a significant adverse impact on the company’s financial results.Retaining Qualified Personnel – The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may adversely impact the company’s business.If Praxair fails to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, the company may not be able to develop, market or sell its products or successfully manage its business. Praxair is dependent upon its highly skilled, experienced and efficient workforce to be successful. Much of Praxair’s competitive advantage is based on the expertise and experience of its key personnel regarding its marketing, technology, manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, systems and products. The inability to attract and hire qualified individuals or the loss of key employees in very skilled areas could have a negative effect on the company’s financial results.Technological Advances – If the company fails to keep pace with technological advances in the industry or if new technology initiatives do not become commercially accepted, customers may not continue to buy the company’s products and results of operations could be adversely affected.Praxair’s research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases and the development of new markets and applications for the use of these gases. This results in the frequent introduction of new industrial gas applications and the development of new advanced air separation process technologies. The company also conducts research and development for its surface technologies to improve the quality and durability of coatings and the use of specialty powders for new applications and industries. As a result of these efforts, the company develops new and proprietary technologies and employs necessary measures to protect such technologies within the global geographies in which the company operates. These technologies help Praxair to create a competitive advantage and to provide a platform for the company to grow its business. If Praxair’s research and development activities do not keep pace with competitors or if it does not create new technologies that benefit customers, future results of operations could be adversely affected.Litigation and Governmental Investigations – The outcomes of litigation and governmental investigations may affect the company’s financial results.8Table of ContentsPraxair is subject to various lawsuits and governmental investigations arising out of the normal course of business that may result in adverse outcomes. These actions are based upon alleged environmental, tax, antitrust and personal injury claims, among others. Adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect its ability to conduct business. While management currently believes that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on the company’s financial position or liquidity, the litigation and other claims Praxair faces are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on the company’s results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable.Tax Liabilities – Potential tax liabilities could adversely impact the company’s financial position and results of operations.Praxair is subject to income and other taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The determination of the company’s worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires judgment and is based on diverse legislative and regulatory structures that exist in the various jurisdictions where the company operates. Although management believes its estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect the company’s financial results for the period when such determination is made. See Notes 5 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements of this Form 10-K.Pension Liabilities – Risks related to our pension benefit plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.Pension benefits represent significant financial obligations that will be ultimately settled in the future with employees who meet eligibility requirements. Because of the uncertainties involved in estimating the timing and amount of future payments and asset returns, significant estimates are required to calculate pension expense and liabilities related to the company’s plans. The company utilizes the services of independent actuaries, whose models are used to facilitate these calculations. Several key assumptions are used in the actuarial models to calculate pension expense and liability amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, significant changes in actual investment returns on pension assets, discount rates, or legislative or regulatory changes could impact future results of operations and required pension contributions. For information regarding the potential impacts regarding significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense, including discount rates and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. See “Critical Accounting Policies – Pension Benefits” included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.Operational Risks – Operational risks may adversely impact the company’s business or results of operations.Praxair’s operating results are dependent on the continued operation of its production facilities and its ability to meet customer contract requirements and other needs. Insufficient or excess capacity threatens the company’s ability to generate competitive profit margins and may expose the company to liabilities related to contract commitments. Operating results are also dependent on the company’s ability to complete new construction projects on time, on budget and in accordance with performance requirements. Failure to do so may expose the business to loss of revenue, potential litigation and loss of business reputation.Also inherent in the management of the company’s production facilities and delivery systems, including storage, vehicle transportation and pipelines, are operational risks that require continuous training, oversight and control. Material operating failures at production, storage facilities or pipelines, including fire, toxic release and explosions, or the occurrence of vehicle transportation accidents could result in loss of life, damage to the environment, loss of production and/or extensive property damage, all of which may negatively impact the company’s financial results.Information Technology Systems – The Company may be subject to information technology system ("IT") failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security.Praxair relies on IT systems and networks for business and operational activities, and also stores and processes sensitive business and proprietary information in these systems and networks. These systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, break-ins and similar events, or breaches of security. Management has taken steps to address these risks and concerns by implementing advanced security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency and recovery process. Despite these steps, however, operational failures and breaches of security from increasingly sophisticated cyber threats could lead to the loss or disclosure of confidential information, result in regulatory actions and have a material adverse impact on Praxair's operations, reputation and financial results.Acquisitions and Joint Ventures – The inability to effectively integrate acquisitions or collaborate with joint venture partners could adversely impact the company’s financial position and results of operations.9Table of ContentsPraxair has evaluated, and expects to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. Many of these transactions, if consummated, could be material to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or group of assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Although historically the company has been successful with its acquisition strategy and execution, the areas where the company may face risks include:•The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies;•Diversion of management time and focus from operating existing business to acquisition integration challenges;•Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the existing organization;•The need to integrate each company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management;•Difficulty with the assimilation of acquired operations and products;•Failure to achieve targeted synergies; and•Inability to retain key employees and business relationships of acquired companies.Foreign acquisitions and joint ventures involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Also, the anticipated benefit of the company’s acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or impairments of goodwill, any of which could adversely impact the company’s financial results.ITEM 1B