Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”Seasonality – Praxair’s business is generally not subject to seasonal fluctuations to any significant extent.Research and Development – Praxair’s research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases and the development of new markets and applications for these gases. This results in the development of new advanced air separation and hydrogen process technologies and the frequent introduction of new industrial gas applications. Research and development for industrial gases is principally conducted at Tonawanda, New York; Burr Ridge, Illinois; Shanghai, China; and Bangalore, India.Praxair conducts research and development for its surface technologies to improve the quality and durability of coatings and the use of specialty powders for new applications and industries. Surface technologies research is conducted at Indianapolis, Indiana.Patents and Trademarks – Praxair owns or licenses a large number of United States and foreign patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes. Praxair’s patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. While these patents and licenses are considered important to our individual businesses, Praxair does not consider its business as a whole to be 4Table of Contentsmaterially dependent upon any one particular patent, or patent license, or family of patents. Praxair also owns a large number of valuable trademarks. Only the "Praxair" trademark is important to our business as a whole.Raw Materials and Energy Costs – Energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. Most of Praxair’s energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution.The supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where the company conducts business. However, energy availability and price is unpredictable and may pose unforeseen future risks.For carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. Praxair has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions.Competition – Praxair operates within a highly competitive environment. Some of its competitors are larger in size and capital base than Praxair. Competition is based on price, product quality, delivery, reliability, technology and service to customers.Major competitors in the industrial gases industry both in the United States and worldwide include Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., Airgas Inc., L’Air Liquide S.A., and Linde AG. Principal competitors for the surface technologies businesses are Chromalloy Gas Turbine Corporation, a subsidiary of Sequa Corporation, Bodycote, PLC, and Sulzer Ltd. Other competitors in surface coating technologies vary by geographic region.Employees and Labor Relations – As of December 31, 2012, Praxair had 26,539 employees worldwide. Of this number, 9,693 are employed in the United States. Praxair has collective bargaining agreements with unions at numerous locations throughout the world, which expire at various dates. Praxair considers relations with its employees to be good.Environment – Information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Environmental Matters” in Item 7 of this 10-K.Available Information – The company makes its periodic and current reports available, free of charge, on or through its website, www.praxair.com, as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Investors may also access from the company website other investor information such as press releases and presentations. Information on the company’s website is not incorporated by reference herein.In addition, the public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically.Executive Officers – The following Executive Officers have been elected by the Board of Directors and serve at the pleasure of the Board. It is expected that the Board will elect officers annually following each annual meeting of shareholders.Stephen F. Angel, 57, is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Praxair, Inc. since 2007. Before this, Mr. Angel served as President & Chief Operating Officer from March to December 2006, and as Executive Vice President from 2001 to March 2006. Prior to joining Praxair in 2001, Mr. Angel was General Manager for the General Electric Company Industrial Systems Power Equipment business from 1999 to 2001, and was General Manager, Marketing and Sales, for General Electric’s Transportation Systems business from 1996 to 1999. Mr. Angel is a director of PPG Industries, Inc., a member of the Board of the U.S.-China Business Council, a member of the U.S.-Brazil CEO Forum, a member of The Business Council, and a member of the Board of the Business Roundtable.James T. Breedlove, 65, is Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Praxair, Inc. and served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 2004 to 2006. Prior to joining Praxair in 2004, Mr. Breedlove was Senior Vice President and General Counsel at GE Equipment Services from 2002, and from 1992 to 2002 he served as a Senior Vice President of a division of General Electric Capital Corp.Domingos H. G. Bulus, 51, is a Senior Vice President of Praxair, Inc. overseeing Praxair’s businesses in South America, and served as a Vice President from 2003 to 2011. He is also President of White Martins Gases Industriais Ltda. (“White Martins”), Praxair’s Brazilian subsidiary, since 2003. He served as President of Praxair Asia from 2001 to 2003. Mr. Bulus also served as Executive Director of the Andean Treaty region for White Martins from 1996 to 2001.Elizabeth T. Hirsch, 59, is Vice President and Controller of Praxair, Inc. since December 2010. Prior to becoming Controller, she served as Praxair’s Director of Investor Relations since 2002 and as Vice President of Investor Relations since October 2010. She joined Praxair in 1995 as Director of Corporate Finance and later served as Assistant Treasurer. Previously, she had fifteen years of experience in corporate banking, primarily at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company.Eduardo F. Menezes, 49, was promoted to Executive Vice President from Senior Vice President effective March 1, 2012. He oversees Praxair’s North American Industrial Gases and Mexico businesses and Praxair Distribution, Inc. (the packaged gases 5Table of Contentsbusiness). From 2010 to March 2011, he was a Vice President of Praxair with responsibility for the North American Industrial Gases business. From 2007 to 2010, he was President of Praxair Europe. He served as Managing Director of Praxair’s business in Mexico from 2004 to 2007, as Vice President and General Manager for Praxair Distribution, Inc. from 2003 to 2004 and as Vice President, U.S. West Region, for North American Industrial Gases, from 2000 to 2003.Raymond P. Roberge, 62, was promoted to Senior Vice President from Vice President, effective April 24, 2012, and has been the Chief Technology Officer since 2008. He is also responsible for Praxair's Global Supply Systems, Global Operations Excellence and Sustainable Development. Mr. Roberge joined Praxair in 1973 in research and development and subsequently held positions in applications technology, business management, marketing and Accelerated Quality Implementation. In 1996, he became director of business development for advanced air separation, and added ceramic membrane development to his portfolio two years later. Mr. Roberge moved to Global Supply Systems in 1993 as director of product line development. He became vice president of Praxair/MRC in 1999, and in 2002 was named vice president, Sales and Business Development, for Praxair Electronics. He became president of Praxair Electronics in 2005.Sally A. Savoia, 57, is Vice President, Human Resources of Praxair since 2002. She joined Praxair in 1981, holding positions in marketing, operations and quality before being named business manager, merchant gases, North America, in 1989. In 1993, she was named associate director, Investor Relations, and the following year became director of Praxair’s worldwide re-engineering and quality programs. She was named vice president and general manager, Helium and Rare gases, in 1996 and became vice president, Healthcare, in 1998.James S. Sawyer, 56, has been Chief Financial Officer of Praxair since 2000 and was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2006. He was Vice President and Treasurer from 1994 until 2000. He joined Praxair in 1985 and held various financial roles including Finance Director for Europe between 1989 and 1992 and Assistant Treasurer from 1992 through 1994.Scott E. Telesz, 45, was promoted to Executive Vice President from Senior Vice President, effective March 1, 2012. He is responsible for Praxair’s business in Asia, Europe/Russia, the Middle East, Praxair Surface Technologies, Strategic Planning, and the Company’s Global Procurement and Materials Management group. Before joining Praxair in 2010, he was a Vice President from 2007 to 2010 of SABIC Innovative Plastics, a major division of Riyadh-based Saudi Basic Industries Corporation, a global manufacturer of chemicals, fertilizers, plastics and metals. From 1998 to 2007, he held a variety of general management positions with General Electric, and from 1989 to 1998, Mr. Telesz held several positions, including Engagement Manager in the United States and Australia, with McKinsey & Company.ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORSDue to the size and geographic reach of the company’s operations, a wide range of factors, many of which are outside of the company’s control, could materially affect the company’s future operations and financial performance. Management believes the following risks may significantly impact the company:General Economic Conditions – Weakening economic conditions in markets in which the company does business may adversely impact the company’s financial results and/or cash flows.Praxair serves approximately 25 diverse industries across more than 50 countries, which generally leads to financial stability through various business cycles. However, a broad decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by its customers could adversely affect the demand for Praxair’s products and impair the ability of our customers to satisfy their obligations to the company, resulting in uncollected receivables and/or unanticipated contract terminations or project delays. In addition, many of the company’s customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the chemicals, electronics, metals and refining industries. Downturns in these industries may adversely impact the company during these cycles. Additionally, such conditions could impact the utilization of the company’s manufacturing capacity which may require the company to recognize impairment losses on tangible assets such as property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets such as intellectual property or goodwill.Cost and Availability of Raw Materials and Energy – Increases in the cost of energy and raw materials and/or disruption in the supply of these materials could result in lost sales or reduced profitability.Energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. Most of Praxair’s energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. Praxair attempts to minimize the financial impact of variability in these costs through the management of customer contracts and energy efficiency initiatives. Large customer contracts typically have escalation and pass-through clauses to recover energy and feedstock costs. Such attempts may not successfully mitigate cost variability which could negatively impact its financial condition or results of operations. The supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where it conducts business. However, regional energy conditions are unpredictable and may pose future risk.6Table of ContentsFor carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. Praxair has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. A disruption in supply of such raw materials could impact the company’s ability to meet contractual supply commitments.International Events and Circumstances – The company’s international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad and international events and circumstances may adversely impact its business, financial condition or results of operations.Praxair has substantial international operations which are subject to risks including devaluations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, the imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, possible nationalization and/or expropriation of assets, domestic and international tax laws and compliance with governmental regulations. These events could have an adverse effect on the international operations in the future by reducing the demand for its products, decreasing the prices at which it can sell its products, reducing the U.S. dollar value of revenue from international operations or otherwise having an adverse effect on its business. In particular, due to government actions related to business and currency regulations, there is considerable risk associated with operations in Venezuela (see Notes 2 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements). At December 31, 2012, Praxair’s sales and net assets in Venezuela were less than 1% of Praxair’s consolidated amounts.  Also, the Company is monitoring developments regarding the collectability of government receivables from healthcare sales to public hospitals in Spain and Italy where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain.  Historically, collection of such government receivables has extended well beyond the contractual terms of sale; however, payment has always been received.  At December 31, 2012, government receivables in Spain and Italy totaled about $88 million.Global Financial Markets Conditions – Macroeconomic factors may impact the company’s ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of obtaining financing which may adversely impact the company’s financial results and/or cash flows.Volatility and disruption in the U.S. and global credit and equity markets, from time to time, could make it more difficult for Praxair to obtain financing for its operations and/or could increase the cost of obtaining financing. In addition, the company’s borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on the company’s performance as measured by certain criteria such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these debt ratings could increase the cost of borrowing or make it more difficult to obtain financing. While the impact of volatility in the global credit markets cannot be predicted with certainty, the company believes that it has sufficient operating flexibility, cash reserves, and funding sources to maintain adequate amounts of liquidity to meet its business needs around the world.Competitor Actions – The inability to effectively compete could adversely impact results of operations.Praxair operates within a highly competitive environment worldwide. Competition is based on price, product quality, delivery, reliability, technology and service to customers. Competitors’ behavior related to these areas could potentially have significant impacts on the company’s financial results.Governmental Regulations – The company is subject to a variety of United States and foreign government regulations. Changes in these regulations could have an adverse impact on the business, financial position and results of operations.The company is subject to regulations in the following areas, among others:•Environmental protection;•Domestic and international tax laws and currency controls;•Safety;•Securities laws (e.g., SEC and generally accepted accounting principles in the United States);•Trade and import/ export restrictions;•Antitrust matters;•Global anti-bribery laws;•Healthcare reimbursement regulations; and•Conflict mineralsChanges in these or other regulatory areas may impact the company’s profitability, may require the company to spend additional resources to comply with the regulations, or may restrict the company’s ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations could result in penalties or sanctions that could have an adverse 7Table of Contentsimpact on the company’s financial results. Environmental protection ,and healthcare reimbursement legislation are discussed further below.Praxair is subject to various environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the storage, handling and disposal of chemicals, hazardous substances and wastes, the remediation of contamination, the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, and other potential climate change initiatives. Violations of these laws could result in substantial penalties, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, or sanctions. The company may also be subject to liability for the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at properties that it owns or operates and at other properties where Praxair or its predecessors have operated or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes. Although management does not believe that any such liabilities will have a material adverse impact on its financial position and results of operations, management cannot provide assurance that such costs will not increase in the future or will not become material. See the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Environmental Matters” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.Catastrophic Events – Catastrophic events could disrupt the operations of the company and/or its customers and suppliers and may have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations.The occurrence of catastrophic events or natural disasters such as hurricanes, health epidemics, acts of war or terrorism, could disrupt or delay the company’s ability to produce and distribute its products to customers and could potentially expose the company to third-party liability claims. In addition, such events could impact the company’s customers and suppliers resulting in temporary or long-term outages and/or the limitation of supply of energy and other raw materials used in normal business operations. These situations are outside the company’s control and may have a significant adverse impact on the company’s financial results.Retaining Qualified Personnel – The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may adversely impact the company’s business.If Praxair fails to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, the company may not be able to develop, market or sell its products or successfully manage its business. Praxair is dependent upon its highly skilled, experienced and efficient workforce to be successful. Much of Praxair’s competitive advantage is based on the expertise and experience of its key personnel regarding its marketing, technology, manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, systems and products. The inability to attract and hire qualified individuals or the loss of key employees in very skilled areas could have a negative effect on the company’s financial results.Technological Advances – If the company fails to keep pace with technological advances in the industry or if new technology initiatives do not become commercially accepted, customers may not continue to buy the company’s products and results of operations could be adversely affected.Praxair’s research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases and the development of new markets and applications for the use of these gases. This results in the frequent introduction of new industrial gas applications and the development of new advanced air separation process technologies. The company also conducts research and development for its surface technologies to improve the quality and durability of coatings and the use of specialty powders for new applications and industries. As a result of these efforts, the company develops new and proprietary technologies and employs necessary measures to protect such technologies within the global geographies in which the company operates. These technologies help Praxair to create a competitive advantage and to provide a platform for the company to grow its business at greater percentages than the rate of industrial production growth in such geographies. If Praxair’s research and development activities do not keep pace with competitors or if it does not create new technologies that benefit customers, future results of operations could be adversely affected.Litigation and Governmental Investigations – The outcomes of litigation and governmental investigations may affect the company’s financial results.Praxair is subject to various lawsuits and governmental investigations arising out of the normal course of business that may result in adverse outcomes. These actions are based upon alleged environmental, tax, antitrust and personal injury claims, among others. Adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect its ability to conduct business. While management currently believes that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on the company’s financial position or liquidity, the litigation and other claims Praxair faces are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on the company’s results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable.8Table of ContentsTax Liabilities – Potential tax liabilities could adversely impact the company’s financial position and results of operations.Praxair is subject to income and other taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The determination of the company’s worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires judgment and is based on diverse legislative and regulatory structures that exist in the various jurisdictions where the company operates. Although management believes its estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect the company’s financial results for the period when such determination is made. See Notes 5 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements of this Form 10-K.Pension Liabilities – Risks related to our pension benefit plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.Pension benefits represent significant financial obligations that will be ultimately settled in the future with employees who meet eligibility requirements. Because of the uncertainties involved in estimating the timing and amount of future payments and asset returns, significant estimates are required to calculate pension expense and liabilities related to the company’s plans. The company utilizes the services of independent actuaries, whose models are used to facilitate these calculations. Several key assumptions are used in the actuarial models to calculate pension expense and liability amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, significant changes in actual investment returns on pension assets, discount rates, or legislative or regulatory changes could impact future results of operations and required pension contributions. For information regarding the potential impacts regarding significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense, including discount rates and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. See “Critical Accounting Policies – Pension Benefits” included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.Operational Risks – Operational risks may adversely impact the company’s business or results of operations.Praxair’s operating results are dependent on the continued operation of its production facilities and its ability to meet customer contract requirements and other needs. Insufficient or excess capacity threatens the company’s ability to generate competitive profit margins and may expose the company to liabilities related to contract commitments. Operating results are also dependent on the company’s ability to complete new construction projects on time, on budget and in accordance with performance requirements. Failure to do so may expose the business to loss of revenue, potential litigation and loss of business reputation.Also inherent in the management of the company’s production facilities and delivery systems, including storage, vehicle transportation and pipelines, are operational risks that require continuous training, oversight and control. Material operating failures at production, storage facilities or pipelines, including fire, toxic release and explosions, or the occurrence of vehicle transportation accidents could result in loss of life, damage to the environment, loss of production and/or extensive property damage, all of which may negatively impact the company’s financial results.Information Technology Systems – The Company may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security.Praxair relies on IT systems and networks for business and operational activities, and also stores and processes sensitive business and proprietary information in these systems and networks. These systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, break-ins and similar events, or breaches of security. Management has taken steps to address these risks and concerns by implementing advanced security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency and recovery process. Despite these steps, however, operational failures and breaches of security from increasingly sophisticated cyber threats could lead to the loss or disclosure of confidential information, result in regulatory actions and have a material adverse impact on Praxair's operations, reputation and financial results.Acquisitions and Joint Ventures – The inability to effectively integrate acquisitions or collaborate with joint venture partners could adversely impact the company’s financial position and results of operations.Praxair has evaluated, and expects to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. Many of these transactions, if consummated, could be material to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or group of assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Although historically the company has been successful with its acquisition strategy and execution, the areas where the company may face risks include:•The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies;•Diversion of management time and focus from operating existing business to acquisition integration challenges;•Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the existing organization;9Table of Contents•The need to integrate each company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management;•Difficulty with the assimilation of acquired operations and products;•Failure to achieve targeted synergies; and•Inability to retain key employees and business relationships of acquired companies.Foreign acquisitions and joint ventures involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Also, the anticipated benefit of the company’s acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or impairments of goodwill, any of which could adversely impact the company’s financial results.ITEM 1B