. Risk Factors — Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves" below.Integrated services. The Company continues to utilize its integrated services to control well costs and operating costs in addition to supporting the execution of its drilling and production activities. The Company owns fracture stimulation fleets totaling approximately 450,000 horsepower that support its drilling operations . The Company also owns other field service equipment that support its drilling and production operations, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. In addition, Premier Silica (the Company's wholly-owned sand mining subsidiary) is supplying high-quality and logistically advantaged brown sand for proppant, which is being used by the Company to fracture stimulate horizontal wells in the Spraberry/Wolfcamp field.Acquisition activities. The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. During 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company spent $36 million, $104 million and $76 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities.In December 2014, the Company acquired the remaining limited partner interests in five affiliated partnerships for $54 million and caused the partnerships to be merged with and into the Company. In addition, in December 2013, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding common units of Pioneer Southwest not already owned by the Company in exchange for 3.96 million shares of the Company's common stock through a merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company into Pioneer Southwest, the result of which was that Pioneer Southwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. The success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the Company's control. See ". Risk Factors - The Company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the Company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters" for a discussion of risk factors associated with the completion of divestitures.Marketing of ProductionGeneral. Production from the Company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for additional discussion regarding price risk.Significant purchasers. During 2015, the Company's significant purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were Plains Marketing LP (22 percent), Occidental Energy Marketing Inc. (18 percent), Vitol, Inc. (18 percent) and Enterprise Product Partners L.P. (12 percent). The Company believes the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and NGL fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production. See ". Risk Factors" occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical.Because the Company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time, the Company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions.Producing oil and gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates, which vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Because the Company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time as those reserves are produced, the Company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions of additional recoverable reserves. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace its current or future production.The Company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities to market its oil, NGL and gas production; the Company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products.The marketing of oil, NGLs and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. If there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the Company, or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the Company's production could be significantly depressed, or the Company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. The Company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, NGL and gas production. The Company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing and fractionation facilities to the Company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. For example, following Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008, certain Permian Basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the shutdown of the Texas Gulf Coast NGL fractionators. The Company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the Company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. The amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, refining or processing facilities, or lack of capacity on such facilities. The Company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the Company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration.To the extent that the Company enters into transportation contracts with gas pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation, the Company is subject to FERC requirements related to use of such capacity. Any failure on the Company's part to comply with FERC's regulations and policies or with an interstate pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties.A limited number of companies purchase a majority of the Company's oil, NGLs and gas. The loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to sell its production.The Company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in areas of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs.The Company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in areas in which industry activity had increased rapidly, particularly in the Spraberry field in West Texas and the Eagle Ford Shale play in South Texas. As a result, demand for personnel, equipment, power, services and resources, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, had increased, as did the costs for those items. In addition, hydraulic fracturing and other operations require significant quantities of 23Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANYwater, which supply may be affected by drought conditions. In late 2014, commodity prices began to decline and the demand for goods and services has subsided due to reduced activity in these areas. To the extent that commodity prices improve in the future, any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for the Company to resume or increase its development activities, including the result of any changes in laws or regulations applicable to the Company's operations relating to water usage, could result in oil and gas production volumes being below the Company's forecasted volumes. In addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's cash flow and profitability. The Company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. These increases could reduce the Company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned.Historically, the Company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, NGL and gas prices. These cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the Company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the Company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. Decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to declining costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. However, such costs may rise faster than increases in the Company's revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting the Company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. This impact may be magnified to the extent that the Company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities.The refining industry may be unable to absorb rising U.S. oil and condensate production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations.Absent an expansion of U.S. refining capacity, rising U.S. production of oil and condensates could result in a surplus of these products in the U.S., which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. Although U.S. law was changed in 2015 to permit the export of oil, exports may not occur if demand is lacking in foreign markets or the price that can be obtained in foreign markets does not support associated transportation and other costs. In such circumstances, the returns on the Company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the Company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the Company's products could require that the Company shut in some portion of its production. If this were to occur, the Company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's cash flow and profitability.The Company's operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those that govern the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection, that could cause it to suspend or curtail its operations or incur substantial costs.The Company's operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, permits for the drilling of wells, production, the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the transportation and sale of oil, gas and NGLs, worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. To operate in compliance with these laws and regulations, the Company must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities, and may incur substantial costs in doing so. For example, owing to concerns that the injection of salt water and other fluids into underground disposal wells regulated under the UIC program triggers seismic activity in certain areas, including Texas, the TRC published a final rule in 2014 governing the permitting or re-permitting of such disposal wells that requires the submission of information on seismic events within a specified radius of the disposal well location in addition to other information intended to demonstrate that the injected fluids are confined to the disposal zone or otherwise not contributing to seismic activity. As another example, in October 2015 the EPA issued a final rule under the CAA for the purpose of making more stringent the NAAQS for ground-level ozone (reducing the standard to 70 parts per billion) under both the primary and secondary standards intended to provide protection of public health and welfare. Compliance with these legal requirements or with any future environmental laws or regulations could, among other things, delay, restrict or prohibit the issuance of necessary permits, increase the Company's capital expenditures and operating expenses by, for example, requiring installation of new emission controls on some of the Company's equipment, and limit or preclude the use of otherwise available water sources or disposal wells, any one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. As a third example, in connection with the Company's CBM operations in the Raton Basin in Colorado, the Colorado Supreme Court affirmed a state water court holding in 2009 that water produced in connection with CBM operations should be subject to state water-use regulations, including regulations requiring the obtaining of permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights.24Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANYThere can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the Company's future operations and financial condition. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the Company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities. Such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. In addition, these laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement by more stringent laws and regulations. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulations - Environmental and occupational health and safety matters" above for additional discussion related to regulatory and environmental risks.The nature of the Company's assets and production operations exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and occupational health and safety matters.There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the Company's operations as a result of its handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and due to past industry operations and waste disposal practices. The Company's oil and gas business involves the generation, handling, transport and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials and wastes and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of substances or gases, that could expose the Company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. The Company currently owns, leases or operates properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes may have been released on or under such properties and could be released during future operations. Joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from the Company's properties. Private parties, including lessors of properties on which the Company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the Company's operations and facilities where the Company's petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage.The Company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from sources of contractual indemnity or insurance, as pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulations - Environmental and occupational health and safety matters" above for additional discussion related to environmental and occupational health and safety risks.The Company is a party to debt instruments, a credit facility and other financial commitments that may restrict its business and financing activities.The Company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and maintains a credit facility that is currently undrawn. The terms of the Company's borrowings specify scheduled debt repayments and require the Company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. The Company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the Company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. The Company is also subject to various commitments for leases, drilling contracts, derivative contracts, firm transportation, processing and fractionation, and purchase obligations for services and products. The Company's financial commitments could have important consequences to its business including, but not limited to, the following:•increasing its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;•limiting its ability to fund future development activities or engage in future acquisitions; and•placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments.See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity" and Notes G and J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information regarding the Company's outstanding debt and other commitments as of December 31, 2015 and the terms associated therewith.The Company's ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the Company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact the Company's ability to access debt markets, increase the borrowing cost under the Company's credit facility and the cost of future debt, and potentially require the Company to post letters of credit or other forms of collateral for certain obligations.25Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY The Company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the Company's available resources.The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as:•seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration;•marketing oil, NGL and gas production; and•seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to evaluate, operate and develop its properties.Some of the Company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. To a lesser extent, the Company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind or solar power. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulations" for additional discussion regarding competition.The Company's sales of oil, NGLs, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the Company to potential regulatory risks.FERC, the FTC and the CFTC hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the Company's business. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to the Company's physical sales of oil, NGLs, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the Company is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Failures to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.Estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. The actual quantities and net cash flows of the Company's proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated.Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. The estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this Report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate.Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and estimates of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following:•historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas;•the quality and quantity of available data;•the interpretation of that data;•the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies;•assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and•assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs.Because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves:•the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered;•the production costs incurred to recover the reserves;•the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and•future commodity prices.Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The Company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material.As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as:•the amount and timing of actual production;•levels of future capital spending;26Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY•increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, NGLs and gas; and•changes in governmental regulations or taxation.Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. In general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a historical 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for future oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. In addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company or the oil and gas industry in general. Therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or Standardized Measure in this Report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.The Company's business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.As an oil and gas producer, the Company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of the Company's facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats has subjected the Company's operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In particular, the Company's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the Company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Costs for insurance may also increase as a result of security threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the Company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. These events could damage the Company's reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. A failure by purchasers of the Company's production to satisfy their obligations to the Company could require the Company to recognize a pre-tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation.The Company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. To the extent that purchasers of the Company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the Company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. If for any reason the Company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the Company's production were uncollectible, the Company would recognize a pre-tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss.Declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.Since 2010, the economies in the United States and certain other countries have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. However, other economies, such as those of certain European and Asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth and, should these conditions worsen, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the Company could sell its oil, NGLs and gas and ultimately decrease the Company's cash flows and profitability.Changes to U.S. federal income tax legislation could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, or impose new or additional taxes or fees, and such changes could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.In recent years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas companies. Such tax legislation changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for 27Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANYcertain domestic production activities, (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures and (v) the imposition of new taxes or fees on oil or gas (such as the $10.25 fee per barrel on oil proposed in the President's Budget for Fiscal Year 2017). It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, or increase costs, and any such changes could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, NGLs and gas the Company produces.The EPA has made a determination that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. The EPA has adopted regulations under the CAA that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the PSD of air quality by GHG emissions from large stationary sources that already may be potential sources of other regulated pollutant emissions. The Company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the Company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of GHGs from such sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions on an annual basis from specified GHG emission sources in the United States, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which include certain of the Company's facilities. In the absence of any federal climate legislation being adopted in the United States, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing GHG emissions by means of emissions inventories or cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise restricts emissions of GHGs from the Company's equipment and operations could require the Company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax. For example, in August 2015, the EPA announced proposed rules, expected to be finalized in 2016, that would establish new controls for methane emissions from certain new, modified or reconstructed equipment and processes in the oil and gas source category, including production activities, as part of an overall effort to reduce methane emissions by up to 45 percent in 2025. On an international level, the United States is one of almost 200 nations that agreed in December 2015 to an international climate change agreement in Paris, France that calls for countries to set their own GHG emissions targets and be transparent about the measures each country will use to achieve its GHG emissions targets. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how new methane restrictions would impact the Company's business or how or when the United State might impose restrictions on GHGs as a result of the international agreement agreed to in Paris, any new legal requirements that impose more stringent requirements on the emission of GHGs from the Company's operations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, such new legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost to the consumer, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the Company produces.The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") enacted on July 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the Company, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations for its implementation. Although the CFTC has issued final regulations to implement significant aspects of the legislation, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished.In October 2011, the CFTC issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The initial position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain futures and options contracts and equivalent swaps for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide derivative transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on the Company is uncertain at this time. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require the Company, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. The CFTC has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. Although the Company believes it 28Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANYqualifies for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to mitigate its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the Company uses. If the Company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, or if the cost of entering into uncleared swaps becomes prohibitive, the Company may be required to clear such transactions. The ultimate effect of the proposed rules and any additional regulations on the Company's business is uncertain.  In addition, certain banking regulators and the CFTC have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Although the Company expects to qualify for the end-user exception from margin requirements for swaps entered into to manage its commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the Company uses. If any of the Company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, the posting of collateral could reduce its liquidity and cash available for capital expenditures and could reduce its ability to manage commodity price volatility and the volatility in its cash flows.The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory requirements upon the Company's business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the Company encounters and reduce the Company's ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts. If the Company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, the Company's results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the Company's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. The Company's revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the Company, its financial condition and its results of operations. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent the Company transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, it may become subject to such regulations. At this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear.Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect the Company's production.Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. The Company routinely utilizes hydraulic fracturing techniques in the majority of its drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, in August 2015, the EPA issued a proposed rulemaking that would establish new requirements for emissions of methane from certain equipment and processes in the oil and gas source category, including first-time standards to address emissions of methane from hydraulically fractured oil and gas well completions; in April 2015, the EPA proposed guidelines that waste water from shale gas extraction operations must meet before discharging to a treatment plant; and in May 2014, the EPA issued a prepublication of its Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Also, the BLM published a final rule in March 2015 that establishes new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands, but in September 2015, the U.S. District Court of Wyoming issued a preliminary injunction barring implementation of this rule, which order the BLM could appeal and is being separately appealed by certain environmental groups.From time to time, the U.S. Congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In addition, certain states in which the Company operates, including Colorado and Texas have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. States could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the lead of New York in 2015. Also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. For example, several cities in Colorado passed temporary or permanent moratoria on hydraulic fracturing within their respective cities' limits in 2012-2013, but since that time, in response to lawsuits brought by an industry trade group, local district courts struck down the ordinances for certain of those Colorado cities in 2014, while a suit brought by the industry trade group against at least one other Colorado city remains pending. Two of the cities whose ordinances were struck down in 2014 were notified in September 2015 by the Colorado Supreme Court that the high court had agreed to hear their appeals. In the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the Company is currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, the Company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the 29Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANYpursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the volume that the Company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves.Certain governmental reviews are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA conducted a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, and in June 2015, released its draft report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, which report concluded, among other things, that hydraulic fracturing activities have not led to widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water sources in the United States, although there are above and below ground mechanisms by which hydraulic fracturing activities have the potential to impact drinking water sources. However, in January 2016, the EPA's Science Advisory Board provided its comments on the draft study, indicating its concern that EPA's conclusion of no widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water sources arising from fracturing activities did not reflect the uncertainties and data limitations associated with such impacts, as described in the body of the draft report. The final version of this EPA report remains pending and is expected to be completed in 2016. Such EPA final report, when issued, as well as other studies and initiatives or any future studies, depending on any meaningful results obtained or conclusions drawn, could spur efforts to further regulate hydraulic fracturing.Laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the Company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs.Various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. These statutes include the ESA, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the CWA, OPA and CERCLA. The FWS may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. For example, in April 2014, the FWS listed the lesser prairie chicken as a threatened species under the ESA, and the FWS is considering whether to list the Monarch butterfly. The habitat of both species includes Texas and Colorado, where the Company conducts operations. While the FWS's rule listing the lesser prairie chicken has been vacated by a U.S. District Court, a critical habitat or suitable habitat designation with respect to a threatened or endangered species could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. If harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the FWS is required to make a determination on the listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the Company conducts operations could cause the Company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays or limitations on its development and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to develop and produce reserves. Provisions of the Company's charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Company's common stock.Provisions in the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the Company or a merger in which the Company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the Company's board of directors and management. In addition, because the Company is incorporated in Delaware, it is governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions could discourage an acquisition of the Company or other change in control transactions and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Company's common stock.The Company's sand mining operations are subject to operating risks that are often beyond the Company's control, and such risks may not be covered by insurance.Ownership of industrial sand mining operations is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the Company's control. These risks include:•unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures;•cave-ins, pit wall failures or rock falls;•unanticipated ground, grade or water conditions;•inclement or hazardous weather conditions, including flooding, and the physical impacts of climate change;•environmental hazards, such as unauthorized spills, releases and discharges of wastes, vessel ruptures and emission of unpermitted levels of pollutants;•changes in laws and regulations;30Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY•inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or water rights;•restrictions on blasting operations;•inability to obtain necessary production equipment or replacement parts;•reduction in the amount of water available for processing;•technical difficulties or failures;•labor disputes;•late delivery of supplies;•fires, explosions or other accidents; and•facility interruptions or shutdowns in response to environmental regulatory actions.Any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, the Company's mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, losses or possible legal liability. Not all of these risks are insurable, and the Company's insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. The Company's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet its needs in the event of loss and any such loss may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company's estimates of sand reserves and resource deposits are imprecise and actual reserves could be less than estimated.The Company bases its sand reserve and resource estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by engineers and geologists, which are periodically reviewed by outside firms. However, commercial sand reserve estimates are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available drilling data, which may prove unreliable. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of commercial sand reserves and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond the Company's control. Estimates of economically recoverable commercial sand reserves necessarily depend on a number of factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as:•geological and mining conditions or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience;•assumptions concerning future prices of commercial sand products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and•assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies.The Company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that impose significant costs and potential liabilities. The Company's sand mining operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental requirements affecting the mining and mineral processing industry, including, among others, those relating to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air emissions and water discharges, GHG emissions, water pollution, waste management and disposal, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use restrictions, reclamation and restoration of properties, hazardous materials and natural resources. Some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as the CERCLA, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of releases of hazardous substances. Failure to properly handle, transport, store or dispose of hazardous materials or otherwise conduct the Company's sand mining operations in compliance with environmental laws could expose the Company to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs and civil or criminal liability associated with releases of such materials into the environment, damages to property or natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair the Company's ability to conduct its sand mining operations. In addition, environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment, replacement or interpretation by more stringent and comprehensive legal requirements. The Company's continued compliance with existing or future laws and regulations could restrict the Company's ability to expand its facilities or extract mineral deposits or could require the Company to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its sand mining operations, which restrictions or costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations.Any failure by the Company to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in connection with its sand mining operations may cause governmental authorities to take actions that could adversely affect the Company, including:•issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties;•denial, modification or revocation of permits or other authorizations;•imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on the Company's operations, including interruptions or cessation of operations; and•requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions.31Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANYIn addition to environmental regulation, the Company's sand mining operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety, including such matters as human exposure to crystalline silica dust. Several federal and state regulatory authorities, including the U.S. Mining Safety and Health Administration, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica, such as permissible exposure limits and required controls and personal protective equipment. The Company's sand mining operations are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 and amending legislation, which impose stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of the Company's sand mining operations.The Company's sand mining operations are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended by the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. This Act, as amended, is a strict liability statute and any failure by the Company to comply with such existing or any future standards, or any more stringent interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations or otherwise impose significant restrictions on the Company's ability to conduct mineral extraction and processing operations.The Company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations that impose significant costs and liabilities. In addition to the environmental and occupational health and safety regulation discussed above, the Company's sand mining operations are also subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, and the effects that mining have on groundwater quality and availability. Also, the Company's sand mining operations require numerous governmental, environmental, mining and other permits, water rights and approvals authorizing operations at each sand mining facility.  In order to obtain permits, renewals of permits or other approvals in the future for its sand mining operations, the Company may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the effect that any such activities may have on the environment. Obtaining or renewing required permits or approvals may be delayed or prevented due to opposition by neighboring property owners, members of the public or other third parties and other factors beyond the Company's control. Moreover, issuance of any permits, permit renewals or other approvals by governmental agencies may be conditioned on new or modified requirements or procedures with respect to mining that may be costly or time-consuming to implement. A decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations at the affected facility. Current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations and the Company may not be able to renew or obtain permits or other approvals in the future. The Company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The inhalation of respirable crystalline silica dust is associated with the lung disease silicosis. There is evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders, such as scleroderma. These health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the commercial sand industry. The actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling sand could materially and adversely affect the Company through the threat of product liability or personal injury lawsuits and increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Premier Silica is named as a defendant, usually among many defendants, in numerous products liability lawsuits brought by or on behalf of current or former employees of Premier Silica's commercial customers alleging damages caused by silica exposure. As of December 31, 2015, Premier Silica was the subject of silica exposure claims from approximately 420 plaintiffs. The great majority of these claims have been inactive for many years due to the plaintiffs' failure to meet specific legal requirements to advance their claims. Almost all of the claims pending against Premier Silica arise out of the alleged use of Premier Silica's sand products in foundries or as an abrasive blast media and have been filed in the states of Texas and Missouri, although some cases have been brought in many other jurisdictions over the years. It is possible that Premier Silica will have additional silica-related claims filed against it, including claims that allege silica exposure for periods for which there is not insurance coverage. In addition, it is possible that similar claims could be asserted arising out of the Company's other operations, including it hydraulic fracturing operations. Any pending or future claims or inadequacies of insurance coverage or contractual indemnification could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.32Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANYITEM 1B