Item 1A. Risk Factors" and
"Item 7A.  Quantitative  and  Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" for a
description  of various  factors  that could  materially  affect the  ability of
Pioneer to achieve the  anticipated  results  described  in the  forward-looking
statements.  The Company  undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements
except as required by law.

                                       3






Definitions of Certain Terms and Conventions Used Herein

Within this Report, the following terms and conventions have specific meanings:

o    "Bbl" means a standard barrel containing 42 United States gallons.
o    "Bcf" means one billion cubic feet.
o    "BOE" means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a standard convention used to
     express oil and gas  volumes on a  comparable  oil  equivalent  basis.  Gas
     equivalents  are  determined  under the relative  energy  content method by
     using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of gas to 1.0 Bbl of oil or natural gas liquid.
o    "BOEPD" means BOE per day.
o    "Btu"  means  British  thermal  unit,  which is a measure  of the amount of
     energy  required to raise the  temperature of one pound of water one degree
     Fahrenheit.
o    "CBM" means coal bed methane.
o    "field  fuel" means gas  consumed  to operate  field  equipment  (primarily
     compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point.
o    "GAAP"  means  accounting  principles  that are  generally  accepted in the
     United States of America.
o    "LIBOR"  means London  Interbank  Offered  Rate,  which is a market rate of
     interest.
o    "MBbl" means one thousand Bbls.
o    "MBOE" means one thousand BOEs.
o    "Mcf" means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas volume.
o    "MMBbl" means one million Bbls.
o    "MMBOE" means one million BOEs.
o    "MMBtu" means one million Btus.
o    "MMcf" means one million cubic feet.
o    "NGL" means natural gas liquid.
o    "NYMEX" means the New York Mercantile Exchange.
o    "NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange.
o    "Pioneer" or the "Company" means Pioneer Natural  Resources Company and its
     subsidiaries.
o    "proved  reserves" mean the estimated  quantities of crude oil, natural gas
     and natural gas liquids which  geological and engineering  data demonstrate
     with  reasonable  certainty  to be  recoverable  in future years from known
     reservoirs under existing economic and operating  conditions,  i.e., prices
     and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration
     of changes in existing  prices  provided only by contractual  arrangements,
     but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
         (i) Reservoirs are  considered  proved  if  economic  producibility  is
     supported  by either actual production or conclusive  formation  test.  The
     area of a reservoir considered proved includes (A) that  portion delineated
     by drilling  and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts,  if any; and
     (B) the immediately adjoining portions  not yet drilled,  but  which can be
     reasonably  judged as  economically  productive  on the basis of  available
     geological  and  engineering  data. In the absence of  information on fluid
     contacts,  the lowest known structural  occurrence of hydrocarbons controls
     the lower proved limit of the reservoir.
         (ii) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of
     improved recovery  techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the
     "proved"  classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the
     operation of an installed  program in the reservoir,  provides  support for
     the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.
         (iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following:(A) oil
     that  may  become   available  from  known  reservoirs  but  is  classified
     separately as "indicated additional  reserves";  (B) crude oil, natural gas
     and natural gas  liquids,  the  recovery of which is subject to  reasonable
     doubt because of uncertainty as to geology,  reservoir  characteristics  or
     economic factors; (C) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids,  that
     may occur in  undrilled  prospects;  and (D)  crude  oil,  natural  gas and
     natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite
     and other such sources.
o    "SEC" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
o    "Standardized  Measure"  means the  after-tax  present  value of  estimated
     future net revenues of proved  reserves,  determined in accordance with the
     rules and  regulations  of the SEC, using prices and costs in effect at the
     specified date and a 10 percent discount rate.
o    "VPP" means volumetric production payment.
o    "U.S." means United States.
o    With  respect to  information  on the working  interest in wells,  drilling
     locations  and  acreage,  "net"  wells,  drilling  locations  and acres are
     determined by multiplying  "gross" wells,  drilling  locations and acres by
     the Company's working interest in such wells,  drilling locations or acres.
     Unless  otherwise   specified,   wells,   drilling  locations  and  acreage
     statistics  quoted  herein  represent  gross wells,  drilling  locations or
     acres.
o    Unless  otherwise  indicated,  all currency  amounts are  expressed in U.S.
     dollars.


                                       4






                                     PART I

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

General

     Pioneer is a Delaware  corporation  whose common stock is listed and traded
on the NYSE.  The Company is a large  independent  oil and gas  exploration  and
production  company  with  current  operations  in the  United  States,  Canada,
Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria, South Africa and Tunisia.

     The  Company's  executive  offices are located at 5205 N.  O'Connor  Blvd.,
Suite  200,  Irving,  Texas  75039.  The  Company's  telephone  number  is (972)
444-9001.  The Company  maintains  other offices in Anchorage,  Alaska;  Denver,
Colorado;  Midland,  Texas; Calgary,  Canada; London,  England;  Lagos, Nigeria;
Capetown, South Africa and Tunis, Tunisia. At December 31, 2006, the Company had
1,624 employees, 924 of whom were employed in field and plant operations.

Available Information

     Pioneer files or furnishes  annual,  quarterly and current  reports,  proxy
statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (the  "Exchange  Act").  The  public may read and copy any  materials  that
Pioneer files with the SEC at the SEC's Public  Reference  Room at 100 F Street,
N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC
maintains  an Internet  website that  contains  reports,  proxy and  information
statements,  and other information  regarding issuers,  including Pioneer,  that
file  electronically  with the SEC.  The public can  obtain any  documents  that
Pioneer files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

     The  Company  also makes  available  free of charge  through  its  internet
website  (www.pxd.com) its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q,  Current  Reports  on Form 8-K and,  if  applicable,  amendments  to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon
as reasonably  practicable after it electronically  files such material with, or
furnishes it to, the SEC.

Mission and Strategies

     The Company's mission is to enhance shareholder  investment returns through
strategies that maximize Pioneer's long-term  profitability and net asset value.
The  strategies  employed to achieve this mission are  predicated on maintaining
financial  flexibility and capital allocation  discipline.  These strategies are
anchored by the Company's long-lived Spraberry oil field and Hugoton,  Raton and
West Panhandle gas fields which have an estimated  remaining  productive life in
excess of 40 years.  Underlying these fields are approximately 89 percent of the
Company's proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2006.

     Strategic  initiatives  and goals.  During 2006,  the Company  accomplished
significant  goals underlying the strategic  initiatives  established in 2005 to
enhance shareholder value and investment returns.  Specifically, the Company (i)
essentially completed its $1 billion share repurchase program, (ii) successfully
divested  its  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  and  Argentina  assets  at  attractive
valuations,  (iii)  allocated  and focused its  investment  capital more heavily
towards  predictable  oil and gas basins in North America that delivered  strong
production  growth and (iv) lowered its risk profile by expanding North American
unconventional  resource  investments  while  reducing  higher-risk  exploration
expenditures.

     2007 Plans.  During 2007,  the Company plans to: (i) grow  production by 10
percent or more,  anchored by  continued  low-risk  development  drilling in the
Spraberry oil and Raton gas fields,  (ii) commence production at the South Coast
Gas  project in South  Africa in the second  half of 2007,  (iii)  complete  the
construction  and  installation of facilities at the Company's  Alaskan Oooguruk
project and initiate  drilling in late 2007, with first production in 2008, (iv)
progress  development  of the Tunisian  and Edwards  Trend  resource  plays into
production and reserve growth areas,  (v) advance  several other  unconventional
resource plays initiated during 2006, (vi)  selectively  explore for and develop
proved reserves in areas that it believes will offer superior reserve growth and
profitability  potential;  (vii) evaluate  opportunities  to acquire oil and gas
properties  that will  complement  the  Company's  exploration  and  development

                                       5




drilling activities;  (viii) invest in the personnel and technology necessary to
maximize the Company's exploration and development successes;  and (ix) maintain
liquidity,  allowing  the  Company  to take  advantage  of  future  exploration,
development and acquisition opportunities.

Business Activities

     The  Company  is an  independent  oil and gas  exploration  and  production
company.  Pioneer's  purpose is to  competitively  and  profitably  explore for,
develop and produce oil, NGL and gas  reserves.  In so doing,  the Company sells
homogenous  oil, NGL and gas units which,  except for  geographic and relatively
minor quality  differences,  cannot be significantly  differentiated  from units
offered for sale by the Company's  competitors.  Competitive advantage is gained
in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing experienced
management  and staff that will lead the Company to prudent  capital  investment
decisions, technological innovation and price and cost management.

     Petroleum  industry.  For the last several years the petroleum industry has
generally  been  characterized  by volatile oil, NGL and gas  commodity  prices.
During 2006, the Company's  performance  was also impacted by increasing  costs,
particularly higher drilling and well servicing rig rates and drilling supplies.
During  recent  years,  world oil prices  increased  in response to increases in
demand from Asian  economies and the perceived  threat of supply  disruptions in
the  Middle  East,  Nigeria,  Venezuela  and other  areas.  In 2006,  oil prices
initially increased due to supply uncertainty  surrounding Middle East conflicts
and then later  decreased  on  moderating  world  demand and the easing of world
tension,  especially in the Middle East.  North American gas prices fell in 2006
as a result of increased  North American  drilling and  production,  a very mild
start to winter and a very large gas  inventory  overhang.  Significant  factors
that will  impact  2007  commodity  prices  include  developments  in the issues
currently impacting Iraq and Iran and the Middle East in general;  the extent to
which members of the Organization of Petroleum  Exporting Countries ("OPEC") and
other oil  exporting  nations are able to continue to manage oil supply  through
export quotas;  and overall North  American gas supply and demand  fundamentals,
including the impact of increasing  liquefied natural gas ("LNG")  deliveries to
the United States.

     To mitigate the impact of commodity  price  volatility on the Company's net
asset  value,  Pioneer  utilizes  commodity  hedge  contracts.   See  "Item  7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note J of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and  Supplementary  Data" for  information  regarding  the impact to oil and gas
revenues  during 2006, 2005 and 2004 from the Company's  hedging  activities and
the Company's open hedge positions at December 31, 2006.

     The Company.  The  Company's  asset base is anchored by the  Spraberry  oil
field located in West Texas, the Hugoton gas field located in Southwest  Kansas,
the Raton gas field  located in southern  Colorado  and the West  Panhandle  gas
field located in the Texas Panhandle. Complementing these areas, the Company has
exploration  and  development   opportunities  and/or  oil  and  gas  production
activities  in the Gulf of Mexico,  the onshore Gulf Coast area and Alaska,  and
internationally in Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria, South Africa and Tunisia.
Combined,  these assets create a portfolio of resources and  opportunities  that
are well  balanced  among  oil,  NGLs and gas,  and that are also well  balanced
between   long-lived,   dependable   production,   lower-risk   exploration  and
development  opportunities  and a limited  number of  higher-impact  exploration
opportunities.  Additionally, the Company has a team of dedicated employees that
represent the  professional  disciplines and sciences that will allow Pioneer to
maximize  the  long-term  profitability  and net  asset  value  inherent  in its
physical assets.

     The  Company  provides  administrative,  legal,  financial  and  management
support to United States and foreign  subsidiaries that explore for, develop and
produce oil, NGL and gas reserves. Production operations are principally located
domestically in Texas, Kansas, Colorado, Louisiana, Utah and the Gulf of Mexico,
and internationally in Canada, South Africa and Tunisia.

     Production.  The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average
daily production of oil, NGLs and gas through development  drilling,  production
enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties while minimizing
the  controllable  costs associated with the production  activities.  During the
year ended December 31, 2006, the Company's average daily  production,  on a BOE
basis, decreased as a result of (i) initiation of oil deliveries in January 2006
associated with certain VPP  transactions  completed in 2005,  which reduced the
Company's  reported  production and (ii)  production  decreases in the Company's

                                       6





Sable oil field in South  Africa and the Adam  Concession  oil field in Tunisia.
Partially  offsetting the decreases in production  volumes were increases in oil
production in the Spraberry  field and gas  production  from the Raton field and
Canada as part of the Company's aggressive 2006 drilling program.  Excluding the
delivery  of the VPP  volumes  in 2006 (5.6  MMBOE)  and 2005 (2.5  MMBOE),  the
Company's North American production increased  approximately nine percent, which
the Company  believes  provides a better  understanding of the actual results of
the  Company's  2006 North  American  drilling  program  excluding the increased
scheduled VPP deliveries. Production, price and cost information with respect to
the  Company's  properties  for 2006,  2005 and 2004 is set forth under "Item 2.
Properties -- Selected Oil and Gas  Information  --  Production,  Price and Cost
Data".

     Development  activities.  The  Company  seeks to  increase  its oil and gas
reserves,   production  and  cash  flow  through  development  drilling  and  by
conducting other production enhancement activities,  such as well recompletions.
During the three years ended December 31, 2006, the Company  drilled 2,346 gross
(2,159 net) wells, 94 percent of which were successfully completed as productive
wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the Company's interest) of $3.0 billion.

     The Company  believes that its current property base provides a substantial
inventory of prospects for future reserve,  production and cash flow growth. The
Company's  proved  reserves as of December 31, 2006 include  proved  undeveloped
reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 202 MMBbls of oil
and NGLs and 1,082 Bcf of gas. Development of these proved reserves will require
future  capital  expenditures.  The timing of the  development of these reserves
will be dependent upon the commodity price  environment,  the Company's expected
operating cash flows and the Company's financial condition. The Company believes
that its current  portfolio of proved reserves and unproved  prospects  provides
attractive development and exploration opportunities for at least the next three
to five years.

     Exploratory  activities.  The Company has devoted  significant  efforts and
resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled exploration staff as well as
acquiring a portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities  complemented by a
limited  number of  higher-impact  exploration  opportunities.  During 2006, the
Company divested substantially all of its assets in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico
and Argentina and focused its  exploration  efforts towards  lower-risk  onshore
North America and Africa opportunities. In the 2007 capital spending budget, the
Company  expects to spend  approximately  20 percent of its $1.1 billion capital
budget to test and develop  lower-risk  resource  plays in onshore North America
and Tunisia,  and another five percent for  high-impact  exploration in the U.S.
(principally  Alaska) and West Africa.  Exploratory  drilling  involves  greater
risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than
development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors
- -- Drilling activities" below.

     Acquisition  activities.  The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties
that   complement  its   operations,   provide   exploration   and   development
opportunities  and  potentially  provide  superior  returns  on  investment.  In
addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company
to expand into new  geographical  areas that feature  producing  properties  and
provide exploration/exploitation  opportunities. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the
Company invested $223.2 million, $272.9 million and $2.6 billion,  respectively,
of  acquisition  capital to purchase  proved oil and gas  properties,  including
additional  interests in its existing  assets,  and to acquire new prospects for
future  exploitation  and  exploration  activities.  See  Note  C  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for a description of the Company's acquisitions during 2006,
2005 and 2004.

     The Company  periodically  evaluates and pursues acquisition  opportunities
(including  opportunities to acquire  particular oil and gas assets and entities
owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations
or other business  combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be
in various  stages of evaluating  such  opportunities.  Such stages may take the
form  of  internal  financial  analysis,  oil  and  gas  reserve  analysis,  due
diligence,   the   submission  of  an   indication   of  interest,   preliminary
negotiations,  negotiation  of a letter of intent or negotiation of a definitive
agreement.  The success of any  acquisition  is  uncertain  and will depend on a
number of factors,  some of which are outside the Company's  control.  See "Item
1A. Risk Factors -- Acquisitions".

     Asset  divestitures.  The Company  regularly reviews its asset base for the
purpose of  identifying  nonstrategic  assets,  the  disposition  of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  While the Company generally does

                                       7





not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions
can  have the  result  of  furthering  the  Company's  objective  of  increasing
financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. See Notes N, T and V of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data" for specific  information  regarding the Company's asset
divestitures, VPPs and discontinued operations during 2006, 2005 and 2004.

     The  Company  anticipates  that  it  will  continue  to  sell  nonstrategic
properties  or other  assets  from time to time to  increase  capital  resources
available  for  other  activities,   to  achieve  operating  and  administrative
efficiencies and to improve profitability.

Operations by Geographic Area

     The  Company  operates  in one  industry  segment,  that  being oil and gas
exploration  and  production.  See  Note R of Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
geographic  operating segment  information,  including results of operations and
segment assets.

Marketing of Production

     General. Production from the Company's properties is marketed using methods
that are consistent with industry  practices.  Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas
production are negotiated based on factors normally  considered in the industry,
such as the index or spot  price  for gas or the  posted  price  for oil,  price
regulations,  distance from the well to the pipeline,  well pressure,  estimated
reserves,  commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions.  See "Qualitative
Disclosures" in "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market
Risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk.

     Significant  purchasers.  During 2006, the Company's significant purchasers
of oil, NGLs and gas were Oneok Resources (12 percent),  Plains Marketing LP (12
percent) and Occidental Energy Marketing,  Inc. (11 percent).  The Company is of
the opinion that the loss of any one purchaser  would not have an adverse effect
on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production.

     Hedging activities. The Company, from time to time, utilizes commodity swap
and collar  contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price  volatility  on
the  commodities the Company  produces and sells,  (ii) support the cash flow to
fund the Company's  annual  capital  budgeting and  expenditure  plans and (iii)
reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects.  See "Item
7.  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of
Operations"  for a description of the Company's  hedging  activities,  "Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note J of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and  Supplementary  Data" for  information  concerning the impact on oil and gas
revenues  during 2006, 2005 and 2004 from commodity  hedging  activities and the
Company's open and terminated commodity hedge positions at December 31, 2006.

Competition, Markets and Regulations

     Competition. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number
of companies,  including major integrated and other independent  companies,  and
individuals  engage  in the  exploration  for  and  development  of oil  and gas
properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties
suitable for development or exploration.  Acquisitions of oil and gas properties
have been an important element of the Company's  growth.  The Company intends to
continue to acquire  oil and gas  properties  that  complement  its  operations,
provide  exploration  and  development  opportunities  and  potentially  provide
superior  returns  on  investment.  The  principal  competitive  factors  in the
acquisition  of oil and gas  properties  include the staff and data necessary to
identify,  evaluate and purchase such  properties  and the  financial  resources
necessary to acquire and develop the properties.  Higher recent commodity prices
have  increased the cost of properties  available for  acquisition.  Many of the
Company's  competitors  are  substantially  larger and have  financial and other
resources greater than those of the Company.

     Markets.  The  Company's  ability to produce and market  oil,  NGLs and gas
profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control.  The effect
of these factors  cannot be accurately  predicted or  anticipated.  Although the
Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these  commodity

                                       8





prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected,  the prices for any
commodity that the Company  produces will generally  approximate  current market
prices in the geographic region of the production.

     Governmental  regulations.  Enterprises  that  sell  securities  in  public
markets are subject to regulatory  oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the
NYSE. This regulatory  oversight imposes on the Company the  responsibility  for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures that will ensure
that  material   information  relating  to  the  Company  and  its  consolidated
subsidiaries  is made known to the Company's  management  and that the financial
statements  and other  information  included  in  submissions  to the SEC do not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary  to make  the  statements  made in such  submissions  not  misleading.
Compliance with some of these  regulations is costly and regulations are subject
to change or reinterpretation.

     Oil and gas  exploration  and  production  operations  are also  subject to
various  types of  regulation  by local,  state,  federal and foreign  agencies.
Additionally,  the Company's  operations are subject to state  conservation laws
and regulations,  including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and
gas properties,  the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and
the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. States and foreign
governments  also generally impose a production or severance tax with respect to
the  production and sale of oil and gas within their  respective  jurisdictions.
The regulatory  burden on the oil and gas industry  increases the Company's cost
of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability.

     Additional  proposals  and  proceedings  that might  affect the oil and gas
industry are  considered  from time to time by the United States  Congress,  the
Federal Energy Regulatory  Commission,  state regulatory  bodies, the courts and
foreign  governments.  The Company  cannot predict when or if any such proposals
might become effective or their effect, if any, on the Company's operations.

     Environmental and health controls.  The Company's operations are subject to
numerous U.S. federal,  state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations
governing the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating
to environmental and health  protection.  These laws and regulations may require
the  acquisition  of a permit  before  drilling  commences,  restrict  the type,
quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the
environment  in connection  with drilling and  production  activities,  limit or
prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness,  wetlands
and  other  protected  areas or impose  substantial  liabilities  for  pollution
resulting from oil and gas operations.  The Company's  inability to obtain these
permits in a timely manner or at all could cause delays or otherwise  negatively
impact the Company's ability to implement its business plans.  Failure to comply
with these  environmental  laws and  regulations may result in the assessment of
administrative,  civil,  and  criminal  penalties,  the  imposition  of remedial
obligations,  and the issuance of injunctions that limit or prevent  operations.
Although  the  Company   believes   that   compliance   with  U.S.  and  foreign
environmental  laws and regulations  will not have a material  adverse effect on
its future  results of operations or financial  condition,  risks of substantial
costs and liabilities  are inherent in oil and gas operations,  and there can be
no assurance that significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred or that
curtailment  in  production  or  processing  might not arise as a result of such
compliance.  Moreover, it is possible that other developments,  such as stricter
environmental  laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or persons
resulting from the Company's  operations,  could result in substantial costs and
liabilities.

     In the U.S., the Comprehensive  Environmental Response,  Compensation,  and
Liability Act ("CERCLA"),  also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability,
without  regard to fault or the  legality of the  original  conduct,  on certain
classes of persons with respect to the release of a "hazardous  substance"  into
the  environment.  These  persons  include the owner or operator of the disposal
site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged
for the disposal of hazardous  substances  released at the site. Persons who are
or were  responsible  for releases of hazardous  substances  under CERCLA may be
subject to joint and several,  strict liability for the costs of cleaning up the
hazardous  substances  that  have been  released  into the  environment  and for
damages to natural resources,  and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners
and other third parties to file claims for personal  injury and property  damage
allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment.

     The Company generates wastes in the U.S.,  including hazardous wastes, that
are subject to the federal  Resource  Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and
comparable state statutes. The U.S. Environmental  Protection Agency and various
state  agencies  have  limited  the  approved  methods of  disposal  for certain

                                       9





hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. Furthermore,  certain wastes generated by the
Company's oil and gas  operations  that are currently  exempt from  treatment as
hazardous  wastes may in the  future be  designated  as  hazardous  wastes,  and
therefore  be  subject  to more  rigorous  and  costly  operating  and  disposal
requirements.

     The Company currently owns or leases,  and has in the past owned or leased,
properties  in the U.S.  that for many years have been used for the  exploration
and production of oil and gas reserves.  Although the Company has used operating
and  disposal  practices  that  were  standard  in the  industry  at  the  time,
hydrocarbons  or other wastes may have been  disposed of or released on or under
the  properties  owned or leased by the Company or on or under  other  locations
where such hydrocarbons or wastes have been taken for recycling or disposal.  In
addition,  some of these  properties  have been  operated by third parties whose
treatment and disposal or release of  hydrocarbons or other wastes was not under
the Company's control.  These properties and the hydrocarbons or wastes disposed
thereon may be subject to CERCLA,  RCRA and  analogous  state  laws.  Under such
laws, the Company could be required to remove or remediate  previously  disposed
wastes or property  contamination or to perform remedial plugging  operations to
prevent future contamination.

     Federal  regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that
store or otherwise  handle oil,  such as the Company,  to prepare and  implement
spill prevention control plans, countermeasure plans and facility response plans
relating to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. The Oil Pollution
Act of 1990 ("OPA")  amends  certain  provisions of the federal Water  Pollution
Control Act of 1972,  commonly  referred to as the Clean Water Act ("CWA"),  and
other  statutes as they pertain to the  prevention of and response to oil spills
into  navigable  waters of the U.S. The OPA  subjects  owners of  facilities  to
strict,  joint and several  liability for all  containment and cleanup costs and
certain other damages arising from a spill,  including,  but not limited to, the
costs of  responding  to a release of oil to surface  waters.  The CWA  provides
penalties for any discharges of petroleum products in reportable  quantities and
imposes  substantial  liability for the costs of removing a spill.  OPA requires
responsible   parties  to   establish   and   maintain   evidence  of  financial
responsibility  to cover removal costs and damages  resulting from an oil spill.
OPA calls for a  financial  responsibility  of $35  million  to cover  pollution
cleanup for offshore  facilities.  State laws for the control of water pollution
also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of
releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground.
The Company  does not believe  that the OPA,  CWA or related  state laws are any
more  burdensome  to it than they are to other  similarly  situated  oil and gas
companies.

     Many  states in which the Company  operates  regulate  naturally  occurring
radioactive  materials ("NORM") and NORM wastes that are generated in connection
with oil and gas exploration and production  activities.  NORM wastes  typically
consist of very low-level  radioactive  substances  that become  concentrated in
pipes and production equipment. Certain state regulations require the testing of
pipes and  production  equipment  for the  presence of NORM,  the  licensing  of
NORM-contaminated  facilities  and the  careful  handling  and  disposal of NORM
wastes.  The Company  believes the  regulation of NORM has minimal effect on its
operations  because the Company  generates  only small  quantities of NORM on an
annual basis.

     The Company's  field  operations  in the U.S.  involve the use of gas-fired
compressors,  which are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and analogous state
laws governing the control and permitting of air emissions. The Company believes
that it is in  compliance  with  applicable  permitting  and control  technology
requirements of such laws and regulations;  however,  in the future,  additional
facilities  could  become  subject  to  additional  permitting,  monitoring  and
pollution control requirements as compressor facilities are expanded.

     The  Company's  operations  outside of the U.S.  are  generally  subject to
similar foreign governmental controls relating to protection of the environment.
The Company  believes that  compliance  with the existing  requirements of these
foreign  governmental  bodies  has  not had a  material  adverse  effect  on the
Company's operations.

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS

     The nature of the business activities  conducted by the Company subjects it
to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material
risks relating to the Company's business  activities.  Other risks are described
in "Item 1.  Business --  Competition,  Markets and  Regulations"  and "Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk". These risks are not
the only risks facing the Company. The Company's business could also be impacted

                                       10





by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that
it currently deems to be immaterial.  If any of these risks actually occur, they
could materially harm the Company's business,  financial condition or results of
operations and impair Pioneer's ability to implement  business plans or complete
development  projects  as  scheduled.  In that  case,  the  market  price of the
Company's common stock could decline.

     Commodity  prices.  The Company's  revenues,  profitability,  cash flow and
future rate of growth are highly  dependent on oil and gas prices.  These prices
are  affected  by the supply of and market  for oil and gas and  numerous  other
factors beyond the Company's control. Historically, oil and gas prices have been
very volatile.  A significant  downward  trend in commodity  prices would have a
material adverse effect on the Company's  revenues,  profitability and cash flow
and could,  under certain  circumstances,  result in a reduction in the carrying
value of the Company's oil and gas properties  and goodwill and the  recognition
of deferred  tax asset  valuation  allowances  or an  increase in the  Company's
deferred  tax  asset  valuation  allowance,   depending  on  the  Company's  tax
attributes in each country in which it has  activities.  The Company makes price
assumptions that are used for planning  purposes,  and a significant  portion of
the Company's  operating  expenses,  including rent, salaries and noncancellable
capital  commitments,  is largely  fixed in nature.  Accordingly,  if  commodity
prices are below expectations,  the Company's financial results are likely to be
adversely  and  disproportionately  affected  because  these  expenses  are  not
variable  in the  short  term and  cannot  be  quickly  reduced  to  respond  to
unanticipated decreases in commodity prices.

     Hedging  activities.  To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in oil and gas
prices,  we have entered into,  and expect in the future to enter into,  hedging
arrangements  for a  portion  of our  oil  and  gas  production.  These  hedging
arrangements  may expose us to risk of financial loss in certain  circumstances,
including when:

   o    production is less than the hedged volumes,
   o    the counterparty  to the  hedging  contract  defaults on  their contract
        obligations, or
   o    the hedging  arrangements limit the benefit the  Company would otherwise
        receive from increases in oil and gas prices.

     Drilling activities.  Drilling involves numerous risks,  including the risk
that no commercially  productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered.  The
cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling
operations  may be  curtailed,  delayed or  canceled as a result of a variety of
factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in
formations,  equipment  failures or accidents,  adverse  weather  conditions and
shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment.  The Company's future drilling
activities may not be successful and, if  unsuccessful,  such failure could have
an adverse  effect on the Company's  future  results of operations and financial
condition.  While all drilling,  whether developmental or exploratory,  involves
these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure
to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.  The Company expects that it will
continue to experience  exploration  and abandonment  expense in 2007,  although
only five percent of the Company's 2007 capital budget is devoted to higher-risk
exploratory  projects.  Increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas
industry in recent periods have led to reduced  availability,  extended delivery
times and increased  costs of some drilling  equipment,  materials and supplies.
The Company  expects that these trends will continue in the  foreseeable  future
and, if so, they may impact the Company's  profitability,  cash flow and ability
to complete development projects as scheduled.

     Unproved  properties.  At December 31, 2006, the Company  carried  unproved
property costs of $210.3  million.  GAAP requires  periodic  evaluation of these
costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value.
These  evaluations  will be affected by the results of  exploration  activities,
commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion
of the  leases,  contracts  and permits  appurtenant  to such  projects.  If the
quantity of potential reserves  determined by such evaluations is not sufficient
to fully recover the cost invested in each project,  the Company will  recognize
noncash charges in the earnings of future periods.

     Acquisitions.  Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a
key element of the Company's  growth.  The Company's  growth  following the full
development  of its existing  property  base could be impeded if it is unable to
acquire  additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable  basis.  The success of
any  acquisition  will depend on a number of factors,  including  the ability to
estimate  accurately the costs to develop the reserves,  the recoverable volumes
of reserves,  rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from
the reserves and the assessment of possible  environmental  liabilities.  All of
these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately  generate cash flows
sufficient to provide a suitable  return on investment.  Even though the Company

                                       11





performs a review of the  properties  it seeks to acquire  that it  believes  is
consistent with industry practices,  such reviews are often limited in scope. As
a result,  among other risks, the Company's initial estimates of reserves may be
subject to revision following  acquisition,  materially and adversely  impacting
the desired benefits of the acquisition.

     Divestitures.  The  Company  regularly  reviews its  property  base for the
purpose of  identifying  nonstrategic  assets,  the  disposition  of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  Various factors could materially
affect the ability of the Company to dispose of nonstrategic  assets,  including
the availability of purchasers  willing to purchase the  nonstrategic  assets at
prices acceptable to the Company.  Sellers typically retain certain  liabilities
or indemnify  buyers for certain  matters.  The  magnitude of any such  retained
liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time
of the  tnrasction and  ultimately  may be material.

     Goodwill.  At December 31,  2006,  the Company  carried  goodwill of $309.9
million associated with its United States reporting unit. Goodwill is tested for
impairment  at least  annually,  requiring an estimate of the fair values of the
Company's assets and liabilities.  If the fair value of the Company's net assets
is not  sufficient  to fully  support the  goodwill  balance,  the Company  will
recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods.

     Operation of gas  processing  plants.  As of December 31, 2006, the Company
owned  interests in seven gas processing  plants and seven treating  facilities.
The Company operates five of the plants and all seven treating facilities. There
are significant  risks  associated with the operation of gas processing  plants.
Gas and NGLs are volatile and explosive and may include  carcinogens.  Damage to
or  misoperation  of a gas  processing  plant or  facility  could  result  in an
explosion or the  discharge of toxic  gases,  which could result in  significant
damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. For example,  in May
2005,  the  Company's  Fain  gas  plant  was  shut  in for two  months  due to a
mechanical failure that resulted in a fire.

     Operating  hazards and  uninsured  losses.  The  Company's  operations  are
subject to all the risks normally  incident to the oil and gas  exploration  and
production business, including blowouts, cratering,  explosions, adverse weather
effects and pollution and other environmental  damage, any of which could result
in substantial losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or
destruction  of  wells,  production  facilities  or  other  property,   clean-up
responsibilities,  regulatory  investigations  and penalties  and  suspension of
operations. Increased hurricane activity in 2005 and 2004 resulted in production
curtailments  and physical  damage to the Company's  Gulf of Mexico  operations.
Although the Company currently  maintains  insurance  coverage that it considers
reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the
oil and gas  industry,  it is not fully  insured  against  certain  of the risks
described in this  paragraph,  either because such insurance is not available or
because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such
insurance.  Additionally,  the Company  relies to a large  extent on  facilities
owned and  operated  by  third-parties,  and damage to or  destruction  of those
third-party  facilities  could  affect the  ability of the  Company to  produce,
transport and sell its hydrocarbons.

     Environmental.  The  oil and  gas  business  is  subject  to  environmental
hazards,  such as oil spills,  produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and
discharges of  substances or gases that could expose the Company to  substantial
liability due to pollution and other  environmental  damage. A variety of United
States federal,  state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern
the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business.  Noncompliance with these
laws and  regulations  may  subject  the  Company  to  administrative,  civil or
criminal  penalties,  remedial  cleanups,  and natural resource damages or other
liabilities,  and compliance  with these laws and  regulations  may increase the
cost of the Company's operations.  Such laws and regulations may also affect the
costs of  acquisitions.  See  "Item 1.  Business  --  Competition,  Markets  and
Regulations  --   Environmental   and  health  controls"  above  for  additional
discussion related to environmental risks.

     The Company does not believe that its  environmental  risks are  materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless,  no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not
result in a curtailment  of production  or  processing  activities,  result in a
material  increase  in the  costs of  production,  development,  exploration  or
processing  operations or adversely affect the Company's  future  operations and
financial condition. Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not
fully insurable.

     Impact of Weather  and  Climate.  Demand for oil and  natural gas are, to a
significant  degree,  dependent on weather and climate,  which impacts the price

                                       12





the Company receives for its production.  In addition the Company's  production,
exploration and development  activities and equipment can be adversely  affected
by severe weather, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation
of activity or lost or damaged equipment, or unseasonal climate, which may delay
or otherwise disrupt drilling and production schedules. Not all such effects can
be predicted, eliminated or insured against.

     Debt restrictions and  availability.  The Company is a borrower under fixed
rate  senior  notes  and a  variable  rate  credit  facility.  The  terms of the
Company's  borrowings  under the senior  notes and the credit  facility  specify
scheduled  debt  repayments  and  require  the  Company to comply  with  certain
associated covenants and restrictions.  The Company's ability to comply with the
debt repayment  terms,  associated  covenants and  restrictions is dependent on,
among other  things,  factors  outside the  Company's  direct  control,  such as
commodity  prices  and  interest  rates.  See Note F of  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for information  regarding the Company's  outstanding  debt as of December
31, 2006 and the terms associated therewith.

     The Company's  ability to obtain  additional  financing is also impacted by
the Company's debt credit ratings and  competition for available debt financing.
See "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition and
Results of Operations" for a discussion of the Company's debt credit ratings.

     Competition.  The oil and gas industry is highly  competitive.  The Company
competes with other  companies,  producers and operators for acquisitions and in
the exploration,  development,  production and marketing of oil and gas. Some of
these competitors have substantially  greater financial and other resources than
the Company.  See "Item 1.  Business --  Competition,  Markets and  Regulations"
above for additional discussion regarding competition.

     Key  personnel.  Our  business  depends to a  significant  extent  upon the
continued  service and  performance  of a relatively  small number of key senior
managers and technical personnel. The loss of any existing key personnel, or the
inability to attract,  motivate and retain additional key personnel,  could harm
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

     Government regulation.  The Company's business is regulated by a variety of
federal,  state,  local  and  foreign  laws  and  regulations.  There  can be no
assurance  that  present or future  regulations  will not  adversely  affect the
Company's business and operations. See "Item 1. Business -- Competition, Markets
and  Regulations"   above  for  additional   discussion   regarding   government
regulation.

     International  operations. At December 31, 2006, approximately five percent
of the Company's  proved  reserves of oil, NGLs and gas were located outside the
United States (three  percent in Canada and two percent in Africa).  The success
and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks
associated  with   international   activities,   including  economic  and  labor
conditions,    political   instability,   tax   laws   (including   host-country
import-export,  excise  and  income  taxes and  United  States  taxes on foreign
subsidiaries)  and  changes  in the value of the U.S.  dollar  versus  the local
currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. In some
cases, the market for the Company's  production in foreign  countries is limited
to some extent. For example, all of the Company's gas and condensate  production
from the South Coast Gas project is currently committed by contract to a single,
government-affiliated  gas-to-liquids  facility.  If  such  facility  ceased  to
purchase the gas because of an unforeseen event excusing  performance,  it might
be difficult to find an  alternative  market for the  production,  and if such a
market were secured,  the price  received by the Company might be less than that
provided  under  its  current  gas  sales  contract.  See  "Critical  Accounting
Estimates"  included  in  "Item  7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations",  "Qualitative  Disclosures  -
Foreign  currency,  operations  and price  risk" in "Item 7A.  Quantitative  and
Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" and Note B of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for  information  regarding  other  risks  associated  with the  Company's
international operations.

     Estimates of reserves and future net revenues. Numerous uncertainties exist
in estimating  quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues  therefrom.
The  estimates of proved  reserves and related  future net revenues set forth in
this Report are based on various  assumptions,  which may ultimately prove to be
inaccurate.

                                       13






     Petroleum  engineering  is a subjective  process of estimating  underground
accumulations  of oil and gas  that  cannot  be  measured  in an  exact  manner.
Estimates  of  economically  recoverable  oil and gas reserves and of future net
cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and  assumptions,  including
the following:

     o  historical  production from the area compared with production from other
        producing areas,

     o  the quality and quantity of available data,

     o  the interpretation of that data,

     o  the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies,

     o  assumptions concerning future oil and gas sales prices and

     o  assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and
        excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs.

     Because all reserve  estimates are to some degree  subjective,  each of the
following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves:

     o  the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered,

     o  the production and operating costs incurred,

     o  the amount and timing of future development expenditures and

     o  future oil and gas sales prices.

     Furthermore,  different reserve  engineers may make different  estimates of
reserves and cash flows based on the same available  data. The Company's  actual
production,  revenues and  expenditures  with respect to reserves will likely be
different from estimates and the differences may be material.

     As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from
proved  reserves  are based on prices and costs as of the date of the  estimate,
while actual future prices and costs may be materially  higher or lower.  Actual
future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as:

     o  the amount and timing of actual production,

     o  increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil and gas and

     o  changes in governmental regulations or taxation.

     The  Company  reports all proved  reserves  held under  production  sharing
arrangements and concessions  utilizing the "economic  interest"  method,  which
excludes the host country's share of proved  reserves.  Estimated  quantities of
production sharing  arrangements  reported under the "economic  interest" method
are  subject  to  fluctuations  in the  price  of oil and  gas  and  recoverable
operating expenses and capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities
attributable to recovery of costs will change  inversely to changes in commodity
prices.

     Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis
for comparing oil and gas companies  subject to the rules and regulations of the
SEC.  It  requires  the use of oil  and gas  prices,  as well as  operating  and
development costs,  prevailing as of the date of computation.  Consequently,  it
may not reflect the prices ordinarily  received or that will be received for oil
and gas  production  because of seasonal  price  fluctuations  or other  varying
market conditions,  nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to
produce or develop the oil and gas properties.  Accordingly,  estimates included
herein of future net revenues may be materially  different from the net revenues
that are ultimately received.  Therefore, the estimates of discounted future net

                                       14





cash flows or  Standardized  Measure in this Report  should not be  construed as
accurate estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.

     Production  forecasts.  From time to time the Company provides forecasts of
expected quantities of future oil and gas production.  These forecasts are based
on a number of estimates,  including  expectations  of production  decline rates
from existing wells and the outcome of future  drilling  activity.  Should these
estimates  prove  inaccurate,  actual  production  could be adversely  impacted.
Downturns  in  commodity  prices  could  make  certain  drilling  activities  or
production uneconomical, which would also adversely impact production.

     Stock  repurchases.  The Board of Directors  (the "Board")  approves  share
repurchase  programs  and sets limits on the price per share at which  Pioneer's
common stock can be repurchased.  The Company is not permitted to repurchase its
stock during  certain  periods  because of  scheduled  and  unscheduled  trading
blackouts.  Additionally,  business  conditions and  availability of capital may
dictate that repurchases be suspended or canceled.  As a result, there can be no
assurance that  additional  repurchases  will be commenced and, if so, that they
will be completed.

ITEM 1B