Item 1A. Risk Factors” and
    “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk” for a description of various factors
    that could materially affect the ability of Pioneer to achieve
    the anticipated results described in the forward-looking
    statements. The Company undertakes no duty to publicly update
    these statements except as required by law. 



    
    2



Table of Contents



 



    Definitions
    of Certain Terms and Conventions Used Herein





    Within this Report, the following terms and conventions have
    specific meanings:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    “Bbl” means a standard barrel containing 42
    United States gallons.






     
        • 

    
    “Bcf” means one billion cubic feet.






     
        • 

    
    “BOE” means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a
    standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a
    comparable oil equivalent basis. Gas equivalents are determined
    under the relative energy content method by using the ratio of
    6.0 Mcf of gas to 1.0 Bbl of oil or natural gas liquid.






     
        • 

    
    “BOEPD” means BOE per day.






     
        • 

    
    “Btu” means British thermal unit, which is a
    measure of the amount of energy required to raise the
    temperature of one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit.






     
        • 

    
    “field fuel” means gas consumed to operate
    field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being
    delivered to a sales point.






     
        • 

    
    “GAAP” means accounting principles that are
    generally accepted in the United States of America.






     
        • 

    
    “LIBOR” means London Interbank Offered Rate,
    which is a market rate of interest.






     
        • 

    
    “MBbl” means one thousand Bbls.






     
        • 

    
    “MBOE” means one thousand BOEs.






     
        • 

    
    “Mcf” means one thousand cubic feet and is a
    measure of natural gas volume.






     
        • 

    
    “MMBbl” means one million Bbls.






     
        • 

    
    “MMBOE” means one million BOEs.






     
        • 

    
    “MMBtu” means one million Btus.






     
        • 

    
    “MMcf” means one million cubic feet.






     
        • 

    
    “NGL” means natural gas liquid.






     
        • 

    
    “NYMEX” means the New York Mercantile Exchange.






     
        • 

    
    “NYSE” means the New York Stock Exchange.






     
        • 

    
    “Pioneer” or the “Company”
    means Pioneer Natural Resources Company and its subsidiaries.






     
        • 

    
    “proved reserves” mean the estimated quantities
    of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which
    geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable
    certainty to be recoverable in future years from known
    reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions,
    i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is
    made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices
    provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on
    escalations based upon future conditions.








    (i) Reservoirs are considered proved if economic
    producibility is supported by either actual production or
    conclusive formation test. The area of a reservoir considered
    proved includes (A) that portion delineated by drilling and
    defined by gas-oil
    and/or
    oil-water contacts, if any; and (B) the immediately
    adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably
    judged as economically productive on the basis of available
    geological and engineering data. In the absence of information
    on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of
    hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir.





    (ii) Reserves which can be produced economically through
    application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid
    injection) are included in the “proved” classification
    when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of
    an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the
    engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.





    (iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not include the
    following: (A) oil that may become available from known
    reservoirs but is classified separately as “indicated
    additional reserves”; (B) crude oil, natural gas and
    natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to
    reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir
    characteristics or economic factors; (C) crude oil, natural
    gas and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled
    prospects; and (D) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas
    liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite
    and other such sources.







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    “SEC” means the United States Securities and
    Exchange Commission.






     
        • 

    
    “Standardized Measure” means the after-tax
    present value of estimated future net revenues of proved
    reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and
    regulations of the SEC, using prices and costs in effect at the
    specified date and a 10 percent discount rate.






     
        • 

    
    With respect to information on the working interest in wells,
    drilling locations and acreage,“net” wells,
    drilling locations and acres are determined by multiplying
    “gross” wells, drilling locations and acres by
    the Company’s working interest in such wells, drilling
    locations or acres. Unless otherwise specified, wells, drilling
    locations and acreage statistics quoted herein represent gross
    wells, drilling locations or acres.






     
        • 

    
    Unless otherwise indicated, all currency amounts are expressed
    in U.S. dollars.






    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    PART I



 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS






 



    General


 


    Pioneer is a Delaware corporation whose common stock is listed
    and traded on the NYSE. The Company is a large independent oil
    and gas exploration and production company with operations in
    the United States, Argentina, Canada, Equatorial Guinea,
    Nigeria, South Africa and Tunisia.


 


    The Company’s executive offices are located at
    5205 N. O’Connor Blvd., Suite 900, Irving,
    Texas 75039. The Company’s telephone number is
    (972) 444-9001.
    The Company maintains other offices in Anchorage, Alaska;
    Denver, Colorado; Midland, Texas; Buenos Aires, Argentina;
    Calgary, Canada; London, England; Lagos, Nigeria; Capetown,
    South Africa and Tunis, Tunisia. At December 31, 2005, the
    Company had 1,694 employees, 912 of whom were employed in field
    and plant operations.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current
    reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange
    Act”). The public may read and copy any materials that
    Pioneer files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference
    Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
    20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the
    Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains
    reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issuers, including Pioneer, that file electronically
    with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that Pioneer
    files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.


 


    The Company also makes available free of charge on or through
    its internet website (www.pxd.com) its Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or
    furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as
    soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files
    such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.


 


    In 2005, the Company submitted the annual certification of its
    Chief Executive Officer regarding the Company’s compliance
    with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards,
    pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the NYSE Listed Company
    Manual.


 



    Evergreen
    Merger


 


    On September 28, 2004, Pioneer completed a merger with
    Evergreen Resources, Inc. (“Evergreen”). Pioneer
    acquired the common stock of Evergreen for a total purchase
    price of approximately $1.8 billion, which was comprised of
    cash and Pioneer common stock. Evergreen was a publicly-traded
    independent oil and gas company primarily engaged in the
    production, development, exploration and acquisition of North
    American unconventional natural gas. Evergreen’s operations
    were principally focused on developing and expanding its coal
    bed methane (“CBM”) field located in the Raton Basin
    in southern Colorado. Evergreen also had operations in the
    Piceance Basin in western Colorado, the Uinta Basin in eastern
    Utah and the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin. See Note C
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
    “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data” for more information regarding the Evergreen merger.


 



    Mission
    and Strategies


 


    The Company’s mission is to enhance shareholder investment
    returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer’s
    long-term profitability and net asset value. The strategies
    employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining
    financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline. These
    strategies are anchored by the Company’s long-lived
    Spraberry oil field and Hugoton, Raton and West Panhandle gas
    fields’ reserves and production which have an estimated
    remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. Underlying
    these fields are approximately 78 percent of the
    Company’s proved oil and gas reserves as of
    December 31, 2005.



    
    4



Table of Contents




    Recent strategic initiatives.  During
    September 2005, the Company announced that its board of
    directors (the “Board”) approved significant strategic
    initiatives intended to enhance shareholder value and investment
    returns. Together with other important initiatives, the Board
    approved:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A $1 billion share repurchase program, $650 million of
    which was immediately initiated and substantially completed
    during 2005 and $350 million of which is subject to the
    completion of the planned deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Argentina
    divestitures discussed below.



 


     
        • 

    
    A plan to divest the Company’s assets in the Tierra del
    Fuego area in southern Argentina. The plan was later broadened
    to include entertaining offers for a complete sale of all of the
    Company’s Argentine assets. During January 2006, Pioneer
    entered into an agreement to sell its assets in Argentina for
    $675 million.



 


     
        • 

    
    A plan to divest the Company’s assets in the deepwater Gulf
    of Mexico. Bids to purchase the properties were received in
    January 2006 and the Company is currently engaged in
    negotiations for the sale of these assets. No assurance can be
    given that a sale can be completed on terms acceptable to the
    Company.





 


    The implementation of the Board’s strategic initiatives is
    allowing Pioneer to (i) allocate and focus its investment
    capital more heavily towards predictable oil and gas basins in
    North America that have delivered relatively strong and
    consistent growth and (ii) lower its risk profile by
    expanding North American unconventional resource investments
    while reducing higher-risk exploration expenditures.


 


    The divestiture of the Company’s Argentine oil and gas
    assets will allow the Company to leverage the current commodity
    price environment to monetize and exit operations in an area
    that has become characterized by lower operating margins,
    government-controlled pricing and modest production growth
    opportunities. The divestiture of the Company’s deepwater
    Gulf of Mexico assets, if successful, will also allow the
    Company to monetize and exit operations in an area that is
    characterized by escalating drilling and operating costs and
    relatively high exploration risk and production volatility.


 


    During 2006, the Company plans to: (i) selectively explore
    for and develop proved reserve discoveries in areas that it
    believes will offer superior reserve growth and profitability
    potential; (ii) evaluate opportunities to acquire oil and
    gas properties that will complement the Company’s
    exploration and development drilling activities;
    (iii) invest in the personnel and technology necessary to
    maximize the Company’s exploration and development
    successes; and (iv) enhance liquidity, allowing the Company
    to take advantage of future exploration, development and
    acquisition opportunities. The Company is committed to
    continuing to enhance shareholder investment returns through
    adherence to these strategies.


 



    Business
    Activities


 


    The Company is an independent oil and gas exploration and
    production company. Pioneer’s purpose is to competitively
    and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil, NGL and gas
    reserves. In so doing, the Company sells homogenous oil, NGL and
    gas units which, except for geographic and relatively minor
    qualitative differentials, cannot be significantly
    differentiated from units offered for sale by the Company’s
    competitors. Competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas
    exploration and development industry by employing experienced
    management and staff that will lead the Company to prudent
    capital investment decisions, technological innovation and price
    and cost management.


 


    Petroleum industry.  The petroleum
    industry has generally been characterized by rising oil, NGL and
    gas commodity prices during 2005 and recent years. During 2005,
    the Company has also been affected by increasing costs,
    particularly higher drilling and well servicing rig rates and
    drilling supplies. During recent years, world oil prices have
    increased in response to increases in demand in Asian economies,
    hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico and supply disruptions
    and threatened disruptions in the Middle East and Venezuela.
    North American gas prices have improved as overall demand
    fundamentals have strengthened while supply uncertainties still
    remain. Significant factors that will impact 2006 commodity
    prices include developments in the issues currently impacting
    Iraq and Iran and the Middle East in general; the extent to
    which members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
    Countries (“OPEC”) and other oil exporting nations are
    able to continue to manage oil supply through export quotas; and
    overall North American gas supply and demand fundamentals. To
    mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the
    Company’s net asset value, Pioneer utilizes commodity hedge
    contracts. See



    
    5



Table of Contents




    “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk” and Note J of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data” for information
    regarding the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2005, 2004
    and 2003 from the Company’s hedging activities and the
    Company’s open hedge positions at December 31, 2005.


 


    The Company.  The Company’s asset
    base is anchored by the Spraberry oil field located in West
    Texas, the Hugoton gas field located in Southwest Kansas, the
    Raton gas field located in southern Colorado and the West
    Panhandle gas field located in the Texas Panhandle.
    Complementing these areas, the Company has exploration and
    development opportunities
    and/or oil
    and gas production activities in the Gulf of Mexico, the onshore
    Gulf Coast area and in Alaska, and internationally in Argentina,
    Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria, South Africa and Tunisia.
    Combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and
    opportunities that are well balanced among oil, NGLs and gas,
    and that are also well balanced between long-lived, dependable
    production and exploration and development opportunities.
    Additionally, the Company has a team of dedicated employees that
    represent the professional disciplines and sciences that will
    allow Pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net
    asset value inherent in its physical assets.


 


    The Company provides administrative, financial and management
    support to United States and foreign subsidiaries that explore
    for, develop and produce oil, NGL and gas reserves. Production
    operations are principally located domestically in Texas,
    Kansas, Colorado, Louisiana, Utah and the Gulf of Mexico, and
    internationally in Argentina, Canada, South Africa and Tunisia.


 


    Production.  The Company focuses its
    efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil,
    NGLs and gas through development drilling, production
    enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties
    while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the
    production activities. During the year ended December 31,
    2005, the Company’s average daily production, on a BOE
    basis, decreased as a result of (i) production curtailments
    in the Gulf of Mexico resulting from 2004 and 2005 hurricane
    damages, (ii) production curtailment in the United States
    Mid-Continent area during mid-May through mid-July due to the
    fire at the Company’s Fain gas plant and (iii) full
    production of recoverable reserves from the Harrier field in the
    deepwater Gulf of Mexico during the third quarter of 2005.
    Partially offsetting these decreases in production volumes were
    (i) a full year of gas production from the properties
    acquired in the Evergreen merger, (ii) increased production
    from the Company’s Devils Tower oil field in the deepwater
    Gulf of Mexico despite hurricane disruptions,
    (iii) increased production from the Company’s Raptor
    and Tomahawk gas fields in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and
    (iv) increased production from the Company’s Argentine
    and Canadian subsidiaries, primarily in response to increased
    development drilling. Production, price and cost information
    with respect to the Company’s properties for 2005, 2004 and
    2003 is set forth under “Item 2.
    Properties — Selected Oil and Gas
    Information — Production, Price and Cost
    Data”.


 


    The aforementioned divestitures of the Argentine and deepwater
    Gulf of Mexico assets, if successfully completed, will
    significantly reduce the Company’s 2006 production volumes.


 


    Drilling activities.  The Company seeks
    to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow
    through exploratory and development drilling and by conducting
    other production enhancement activities, such as well
    recompletions. During the three years ended December 31,
    2005, the Company drilled 1,626 gross (1,484 net)
    wells, 91 percent of which were successfully completed as
    productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the
    Company’s interest) of $2.1 billion.


 


    The Company believes that its current property base provides a
    substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve,
    production and cash flow growth. The Company’s proved
    reserves as of December 31, 2005 include proved undeveloped
    reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of
    196 MMBOE of oil and NGLs and 1,233 Bcf of gas.
    Development of these proved reserves will require future capital
    expenditures. The timing of the development of these reserves
    will be dependent upon the commodity price environment, the
    Company’s expected operating cash flows and the
    Company’s financial condition. The Company believes that
    its current portfolio of proved reserves and unproved prospects
    provides attractive development and exploration opportunities
    for at least the next three to five years.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    Exploratory activities.  The Company has
    devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and
    developing a highly skilled exploration staff as well as
    acquiring a portfolio of exploration opportunities. During
    September 2005, the Company announced that the Board approved
    strategic initiatives to implement a plan to exit exploration in
    the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the Tierra del Fuego area in
    Argentina and to focus its exploration efforts in onshore North
    America, Alaska and Africa. Associated therewith, and pending
    approval of a 2006 capital spending budget, the Company plans to
    reduce its 2006 exploration budget to less than 20 percent
    of the total 2006 capital budget. The Company anticipates that
    its 2006 exploration efforts will be concentrated domestically
    in the onshore Gulf Coast area, the Rocky Mountain area and
    Alaska, and internationally in Africa and Canada. Exploratory
    drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find
    commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling
    or enhanced recovery activities. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Drilling activities” below.


 


    Acquisition activities.  The Company
    regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its
    operations, provide exploration and development opportunities
    and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In
    addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will
    allow the Company to expand into new geographical areas that
    feature producing properties and provide
    exploration/exploitation opportunities. During 2005, 2004 and
    2003, the Company invested $269.7 million,
    $2.6 billion (including $2.5 billion associated with
    the Evergreen merger) and $151.0 million, respectively, of
    acquisition capital to purchase proved oil and gas properties,
    including additional interests in its existing assets, and to
    acquire new prospects for future exploitation and exploration
    activities. See Note C of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data” for a description of the
    Company’s acquisitions during 2005, 2004 and 2003.


 


    The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition
    opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil
    and gas properties or related assets; entities owning oil and
    gas properties or related assets; and opportunities to engage in
    mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such
    entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of
    evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of
    internal financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due
    diligence, the submission of an indication of interest,
    preliminary negotiations, negotiation of a letter of intent or
    negotiation of a definitive agreement. The success of any
    acquisition will depend on a number of factors. See
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Acquisitions”.


 


    Asset divestitures.  The Company
    regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying
    nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase
    capital resources available for other activities and create
    organizational and operational efficiencies. While the Company
    generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of
    reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of
    furthering the Company’s objective of increasing financial
    flexibility through reduced debt levels.


 


    During September 2005, the Company announced that the Board had
    approved a series of strategic initiatives, including a plan to
    divest the Company’s nonoperated Tierra del Fuego interests
    in southern Argentina and the Company’s deepwater Gulf of
    Mexico portfolio. During the Argentine sale process, the Company
    had indications from several potential buyers that they could
    enhance their value for a transaction in Argentina if it
    included all of the Company’s properties. Consequently, the
    Company expressed its willingness to entertain offers for a
    complete exit from Argentina. During January 2006, the Company
    announced signing an agreement with Apache Corporation to sell
    all of its assets in Argentina for $675 million, subject to
    normal closing adjustments. The sale to Apache Corporation is
    expected to close during the latter part of the first quarter or
    in early April of 2006.


 


    The deepwater Gulf of Mexico bid process has been completed and
    the Company is currently engaged in negotiations for the sale of
    the properties. No assurance can be given that a sale can be
    completed on terms acceptable to the Company.


 


    During 2005, the Company’s material divestitures consisted
    of (i) the sale of three volumetric production payments
    (“VPPs”) in the Spraberry and Hugoton fields for net
    proceeds of approximately $892.6 million, (ii) the
    sale of all of its interests in the Martin Creek, Conroy Black
    and Lookout Butte oil and gas properties in Canada for net
    proceeds of $197.2 million, which resulted in a gain of
    $138.3 million that is included in the Company’s
    discontinued operations; (iii) the sale of all of its
    interests in certain oil and gas properties on the shelf of the
    Gulf of Mexico for net proceeds of $59.1 million, which
    resulted in a gain of $27.7 million that is included in the
    Company’s discontinued operations; and (iv) the sale
    of all of its shares in a subsidiary that owns the interest in
    the Olowi block in Gabon for net proceeds of $47.9 million,
    which resulted in a gain of $47.5 million that is included
    in



    
    7



Table of Contents




    the Company’s 2005 income from continuing operations. The
    net cash proceeds were primarily used to fund additions to oil
    and gas properties or to reduce the Company’s outstanding
    indebtedness. See Notes N and T of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data” for specific information
    regarding the Company’s asset divestitures and VPPs entered
    into by the Company during 2005.


 


    The Company anticipates that it will continue to sell
    nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to
    increase capital resources available for other activities, to
    achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve
    profitability.


 



    Operations
    by Geographic Area


 


    The Company operates in one industry segment, that being oil and
    gas exploration and production. See Note R of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8.
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for geographic
    operating segment information, including results of operations
    and segment assets.


 



    Marketing
    of Production


 


    General.  Production from the
    Company’s properties is marketed using methods that are
    consistent with industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL
    and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally
    considered in the industry, such as the index or spot price for
    gas or the posted price for oil, price regulations, distance
    from the well to the pipeline, well pressure, estimated
    reserves, commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions. In
    Argentina, the Company receives significantly lower prices for
    its production as a result of the Argentine government’s
    imposed price limitations. See “Qualitative
    Disclosures” in “Item 7A. Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for additional
    discussion of Argentine foreign currency, operations and price
    risk.


 


    Significant purchasers.  During 2005,
    the Company’s primary purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were
    Williams Power Company, Inc. (nine percent), Occidental Energy
    Marketing, Inc. (nine percent), ConocoPhillips (seven percent),
    Plains Marketing LP (seven percent) and Tenaska Marketing (six
    percent). The Company is of the opinion that the loss of any one
    purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to
    sell its oil, NGL and gas production.


 


    Hedging activities.  The Company
    utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to
    (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the
    commodities the Company produces and sells, (ii) support
    the Company’s annual capital budgeting and expenditure
    plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with
    certain capital projects. See “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” for a description of the
    Company’s hedging activities, “Item 7A.
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”
    and Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data” for information concerning the impact
    on oil and gas revenues during 2005, 2004 and 2003 from the
    Company’s commodity hedging activities and the
    Company’s open commodity hedge positions at
    December 31, 2005.


 



    Competition,
    Markets and Regulations


 


    Competition.  The oil and gas industry
    is highly competitive. A large number of companies, including
    major integrated and other independent companies, and
    individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil
    and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition
    for oil and gas properties suitable for development or
    exploration. Acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an
    important element of the Company’s growth. The Company
    intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that
    complement its operations, provide exploration and development
    opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on
    investment. The principal competitive factors in the acquisition
    of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary
    to identify, evaluate and purchase such properties and the
    financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the
    properties. Higher recent commodity prices have increased the
    cost of properties available for acquisition. Many of the
    Company’s competitors are substantially larger and have
    financial and other resources greater than those of the Company.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    Markets.  The Company’s ability to
    produce and market oil, NGLs and gas profitably depends on
    numerous factors beyond the Company’s control. The effect
    of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated.
    Although the Company cannot predict the occurrence of events
    that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which
    these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that
    the Company produces will generally approximate current market
    prices in the geographic region of the production.


 


    Governmental regulations.  Enterprises
    that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory
    oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the NYSE. This
    regulatory oversight imposes on the Company the responsibility
    for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
    procedures that will ensure that material information relating
    to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries is made known
    to the Company’s management and that the financial
    statements and other financial information included in
    submissions to the SEC do not contain any untrue statement of a
    material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
    the statements made in such submissions not misleading.


 


    Oil and gas exploration and production operations are also
    subject to various types of regulation by local, state, federal
    and foreign agencies. Additionally, the Company’s
    operations are subject to state conservation laws and
    regulations, including provisions for the unitization or pooling
    of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of
    production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging
    and abandonment of wells. States and foreign governments also
    generally impose a production or severance tax with respect to
    the production and sale of oil and gas within their respective
    jurisdictions. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry
    increases the Company’s cost of doing business and,
    consequently, affects its profitability.


 


    Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil
    and gas industry are considered from time to time by the United
    States Congress, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, state
    regulatory bodies, the courts and foreign governments. The
    Company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might
    become effective or their effect, if any, on the Company’s
    operations.


 


    Environmental and health controls.  The
    Company’s operations are subject to numerous
    U.S. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, laws and
    regulations governing the discharge of substances into the
    environment or otherwise relating to environmental and health
    protection. These laws and regulations may require the
    acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the
    type, quantities and concentration of various substances that
    can be released into the environment in connection with drilling
    and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities
    on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other
    protected areas and impose substantial liabilities for pollution
    resulting from oil and gas operations. The Company’s
    inability to obtain these permits in a timely manner or at all
    could cause delays or otherwise negatively impact the
    Company’s ability to implement its business plans. Failure
    to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may
    result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal
    penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the
    issuance of injunctions that limit or prevent operations.
    Although the Company believes that compliance with U.S. and
    foreign environmental laws and regulations will not have a
    material adverse effect on its future results of operations or
    financial condition, risks of substantial costs and liabilities
    are inherent in oil and gas operations, and there can be no
    assurance that significant costs and liabilities will not be
    incurred or that curtailment in production or processing might
    not arise as a result of such compliance. Moreover, it is
    possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental
    laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or
    persons resulting from the Company’s operations, could
    result in substantial costs and liabilities.


 


    In the U.S., the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
    Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known
    as the “Superfund” law, imposes liability, without
    regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on
    certain classes of persons with respect to the release of a
    “hazardous substance” into the environment. These
    persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or
    sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or
    arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances released at
    the site. Persons who are or were responsible for releases of
    hazardous substances under CERCLA may be subject to joint and
    several, strict liability for the costs of cleaning up the
    hazardous substances that have been released into the
    environment and for damages to natural resources, and it is not
    uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to
    file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly
    caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    The Company generates wastes in the U.S., including hazardous
    wastes, that are subject to the federal Resource Conservation
    and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and comparable state
    statutes. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and
    various state agencies have limited the approved methods of
    disposal for certain hazardous and nonhazardous wastes.
    Furthermore, certain wastes generated by the Company’s oil
    and gas operations that are currently exempt from treatment as
    hazardous wastes may in the future be designated as hazardous
    wastes, and therefore be subject to more rigorous and costly
    operating and disposal requirements.


 


    The Company currently owns or leases, and has in the past owned
    or leased, properties in the U.S. that for many years have been
    used for the exploration and production of oil and gas reserves.
    Although the Company has used operating and disposal practices
    that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or
    other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under
    the properties owned or leased by the Company or on or under
    other locations where such hydrocarbons or wastes have been
    taken for recycling or disposal. In addition, some of these
    properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment
    and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes was not
    under the Company’s control. These properties and the
    hydrocarbons or wastes disposed thereon may be subject to
    CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, the
    Company could be required to remove or remediate previously
    disposed wastes or property contamination or to perform remedial
    plugging operations to prevent future contamination.


 


    Federal regulations require certain owners or operators of
    facilities that store or otherwise handle oil, such as the
    Company, to prepare and implement spill prevention control
    plans, countermeasure plans and facility response plans relating
    to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. The Oil
    Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”) amends certain
    provisions of the federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972,
    commonly referred to as the Clean Water Act (“CWA”),
    and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of and
    response to oil spills into navigable waters of the U.S. The OPA
    subjects owners of facilities to strict, joint and several
    liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain
    other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited
    to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface
    waters. The CWA provides penalties for any discharges of
    petroleum products in reportable quantities and imposes
    substantial liability for the costs of removing a spill. OPA
    requires responsible parties to establish and maintain evidence
    of financial responsibility to cover removal costs and damages
    resulting from an oil spill. OPA calls for a financial
    responsibility of $35 million to cover pollution cleanup
    for offshore facilities. State laws for the control of water
    pollution also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and
    liabilities in the case of releases of petroleum or its
    derivatives into surface waters or into the ground. The Company
    does not believe that the OPA, CWA or related state laws are any
    more burdensome to it than they are to other similarly situated
    oil and gas companies.


 


    Many states in which the Company operates regulate naturally
    occurring radioactive materials (“NORM”) and NORM
    wastes that are generated in connection with oil and gas
    exploration and production activities. NORM wastes typically
    consist of very low-level radioactive substances that become
    concentrated in pipes and production equipment. Certain state
    regulations require the testing of pipes and production
    equipment for the presence of NORM, the licensing of
    NORM-contaminated facilities and the careful handling and
    disposal of NORM wastes. The Company believes the regulation of
    NORM has minimal effect on its operations because the Company
    generates only small quantities of NORM on an annual basis.


 


    The Company’s field operations in the U.S. involve the use
    of gas-fired compressors, which are subject to the federal Clean
    Air Act and analogous state laws governing the control and
    permitting of air emissions. The Company believes that it is in
    substantial compliance with applicable permitting and control
    technology requirements of such laws and regulations; however,
    in the future, additional facilities could become subject to
    additional permitting, monitoring and pollution control
    requirements as compressor facilities are expanded.


 


    The Company’s operations outside of the U.S. are
    potentially subject to similar foreign governmental controls
    relating to protection of the environment. The Company believes
    that compliance with existing requirements of these foreign
    governmental bodies has not had a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s operations.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    The nature of the business activities conducted by the Company
    subjects it to certain hazards and risks. The following is a
    summary of some of the material risks relating to the
    Company’s business activities. Other risks are



    
    10



Table of Contents




    described in “Item 1.
    Business — Competition, Markets and
    Regulations” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. If any of these
    risks actually occur, they could materially harm the
    Company’s business, financial condition or results of
    operations and impair Pioneer’s ability to implement
    business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. In
    that case, the market price of the Company’s common stock
    could decline.


 


    Commodity prices.  The Company’s
    revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are
    highly dependent on oil and gas prices, which are affected by
    numerous factors beyond the Company’s control.
    Historically, oil and gas prices have been very volatile. A
    significant downward trend in commodity prices would have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues,
    profitability and cash flow and could, under certain
    circumstances, result in a reduction in the carrying value of
    the Company’s oil and gas properties and goodwill and the
    recognition of deferred tax asset valuation allowances or an
    increase to the Company’s deferred tax asset valuation
    allowances, depending on the Company’s tax attributes in
    each country in which it has activities. Pioneer makes price
    assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a
    significant portion of the Company’s operating expenses,
    including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments,
    is largely fixed in nature. Accordingly, if commodity prices are
    below expectations, Pioneer’s financial results are likely
    to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these
    expenses are not variable in the short term and cannot be
    quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in
    commodity prices.


 


    Drilling activities.  Drilling involves
    numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially
    productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost
    of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain
    and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as
    a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling
    conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment
    failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and shortages
    or delays in the delivery of equipment. The Company’s
    future drilling activities may not be successful and, if
    unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the
    Company’s future results of operations and financial
    condition. While all drilling, whether developmental or
    exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves
    greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial
    quantities of hydrocarbons. The Company expects that it will
    continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in
    2006 even though less than 20 percent of the Company’s
    2006 capital budget is devoted to higher-risk exploratory
    projects. Increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and
    gas industry in recent periods have led to reduced availability,
    extended delivery times and increased costs of some drilling
    equipment, materials and supplies. The Company expects that
    these trends will continue in the foreseeable future and, if so,
    will impact the Company’s profitability, cash flow and
    ability to complete development projects as scheduled.


 


    Unproved properties.  At
    December 31, 2005, the Company carried unproved property
    costs of $313.9 million.  GAAP requires periodic evaluation
    of these costs on a
    project-by-project
    basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. These
    evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration
    activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or
    expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and
    permits appurtenant to such projects. If the quantity of
    potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not
    sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project,
    the Company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of
    future periods.


 


    Acquisitions.  Acquisitions of producing
    oil and gas properties have been a key element of the
    Company’s growth. The Company’s growth following the
    full development of its existing property base could be impeded
    if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a
    profitable basis. The success of any acquisition will depend on
    a number of factors, including the ability to estimate
    accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable
    volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net
    revenues attainable from the reserves and the assessment of
    possible environmental liabilities. All of these factors affect
    whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows
    sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. Even
    though the Company performs a review of the properties it seeks
    to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry
    practices, such reviews are often limited in scope.



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Divestitures.  The Company regularly
    reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying
    nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase
    capital resources available for other activities and create
    organizational and operational efficiencies. Various factors
    could materially affect the ability of the Company to dispose of
    nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers
    willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable
    to the Company.


 


    Operation of gas processing plants.  As
    of December 31, 2005, the Company owned interests in 12 gas
    processing plants and three treating facilities. The Company
    operates eight of the plants and all three treating facilities.
    There are significant risks associated with the operation of gas
    processing plants. For example, in May 2005, the Company’s
    Fain gas plant was shut in for two months due to a mechanical
    failure that resulted in a fire. Gas and NGLs are volatile and
    explosive and may include carcinogens. Damage to or misoperation
    of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an
    explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in
    significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue
    source.


 


    Operating hazards and uninsured
    losses.  The Company’s operations are
    subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas
    exploration and production business, including blowouts,
    cratering, explosions, adverse weather effects and pollution and
    other environmental damage, any of which could result in
    substantial losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life,
    damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or
    other property,
    clean-up
    responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and
    suspension of operations. Increased hurricane activity over the
    past two years has resulted in production curtailments and
    physical damage to the Company’s Gulf of Mexico operations.
    Although the Company currently maintains insurance coverage that
    it considers reasonable and that is similar to that maintained
    by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry, it is not
    fully insured against certain of these risks, either because
    such insurance is not available or because of the high premium
    costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance.


 


    Environmental.  The oil and gas business
    is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills,
    produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of
    substances or gases that could expose the Company to substantial
    liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. A
    variety of United States federal, state and local, as well as
    foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of
    the oil and gas business. Noncompliance with these laws and
    regulations may subject the Company to administrative, civil, or
    criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource
    damages or other liabilities and compliance may increase the
    cost of the Company’s operations. Such laws and regulations
    may also affect the costs of acquisitions. See
    “Item 1. Business — Competition,
    Markets and Regulations — Environmental and
    health controls” above for additional discussion related to
    environmental risks.


 


    The Company does not believe that its environmental risks are
    materially different from those of comparable companies in the
    oil and gas industry. Nevertheless, no assurance can be given
    that future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment
    of production or processing activities, result in a material
    increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or
    processing operations or adversely affect the Company’s
    future operations and financial condition. Pollution and similar
    environmental risks generally are not fully insurable.


 


    Debt restrictions and availability.  The
    Company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and a
    variable rate credit facility. The terms of the Company’s
    borrowings under the senior notes and the credit facility
    specify scheduled debt repayments and require the Company to
    comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. The
    Company’s ability to comply with the debt repayment terms,
    associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among
    other things, factors outside the Company’s direct control,
    such as commodity prices and interest rates. See Note F of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
    “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data” for information regarding the Company’s
    outstanding debt as of December 31, 2005 and the terms
    associated therewith.


 


    The Company’s ability to obtain additional financing is
    also impacted by the Company’s debt credit ratings and
    competition for available debt financing. See “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” for a discussion of the
    Company’s debt credit ratings.


 


    Competition.  The oil and gas industry
    is highly competitive. The Company competes with other
    companies, producers and operators for acquisitions and in the
    exploration, development, production and marketing of oil and



    
    12



Table of Contents




    gas. Some of these competitors have substantially greater
    financial and other resources than the Company. See
    “Item 1. Business — Competition,
    Markets and Regulations” above for additional discussion
    regarding competition.


 


    Government regulation.  The
    Company’s business is regulated by a variety of federal,
    state, local and foreign laws and regulations. There can be no
    assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely
    affect the Company’s business and operations. See
    “Item 1. Business — Competition,
    Markets and Regulations” above for additional discussion
    regarding government regulation.


 


    International operations.  At
    December 31, 2005, approximately 14 percent of the
    Company’s proved reserves of oil, NGLs and gas were located
    outside the United States (ten percent in Argentina, two percent
    in Canada and two percent in Africa). The success and
    profitability of international operations may be adversely
    affected by risks associated with international activities,
    including economic and labor conditions, political instability,
    tax laws (including host-country import-export, excise and
    income taxes and United States taxes on foreign subsidiaries)
    and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the
    local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may
    be denominated. To the extent that the Company is involved in
    international activities, changes in exchange rates may
    adversely affect the Company’s future results of operations
    and financial condition. See “Critical Accounting
    Estimates” included in “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations”, “Qualitative Disclosures” in
    “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk” and Note B of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data” for information specific
    to Argentina’s economic and political situation and other
    risks associated with the Company’s international
    operations. The aforementioned planned sale of Argentine assets,
    if completed, will significantly reduce the Company’s
    international operations.


 


    Estimates of reserves and future net
    revenues.  Numerous uncertainties exist in
    estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues
    therefrom. The estimates of proved reserves and related future
    net revenues set forth in this Report are based on various
    assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate.


 


    Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating
    underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured
    in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil
    and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a
    number of variable factors and assumptions, including the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    historical production from the area compared with production
    from other producing areas,



 


     
        • 

    
    the quality and quantity of available data,



 


     
        • 

    
    the interpretation of that data,



 


     
        • 

    
    the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies,



 


     
        • 

    
    assumptions concerning future oil and gas prices and



 


     
        • 

    
    assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad
    valorem and excise taxes, development costs and workover and
    remedial costs.





 


    Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective,
    each of the following items may differ materially from those
    assumed in estimating reserves:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered,



 


     
        • 

    
    the production and operating costs incurred,



 


     
        • 

    
    the amount and timing of future development expenditures and



 


     
        • 

    
    future oil and gas sales prices.





 


    Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different
    estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available
    data. The Company’s actual production, revenues and
    expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different
    from estimates and the differences may be material.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash
    flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and
    costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices
    and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net
    cash flows also will be affected by factors such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the amount and timing of actual production,



 


     
        • 

    
    increases or decreases in the supply or demand of oil and
    gas and



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in governmental regulations or taxation.





 


    The Company reports all proved reserves held under production
    sharing arrangements and concessions utilizing the
    “economic interest” method, which excludes the host
    country’s share of proved reserves. Estimated quantities of
    production sharing arrangements reported under the
    “economic interest” method are subject to fluctuations
    in the price of oil and gas and recoverable operating expenses
    and capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities
    attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to
    changes in commodity prices.


 


    Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a
    common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the
    rules and regulations of the SEC. It requires the use of oil and
    gas prices, as well as operating and development costs,
    prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may
    not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be
    received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price
    fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it
    reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or
    develop the oil and gas properties. Accordingly, estimates
    included herein of future net revenues may be materially
    different from the net revenues that are ultimately received.
    Therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or
    Standardized Measure in this Report should not be construed as
    accurate estimates of the current market value of the
    Company’s proved reserves.


 


    Stock repurchases.  During 2005, the
    Company repurchased 20 million shares of its common stock,
    and announced its intention to repurchase up to an additional
    $350 million of its common stock, subject to completion of
    the planned divestiture of its deepwater Gulf of Mexico and
    Argentine assets. The Board sets limits on the price per share
    at which Pioneer’s common stock can be repurchased, and the
    Company will not be permitted to repurchase its stock during
    certain periods because of scheduled and unscheduled trading
    blackouts. Additionally, business conditions and availability of
    capital may dictate that repurchases be suspended or cancelled.
    As a result, there can be no assurance that additional
    repurchases will be commenced and, if so, that they will be
    completed.


 


    Commodity hedges.  To the extent that
    the Company engages in hedging activities to reduce commodity
    price risk, Pioneer may be prevented from realizing the benefits
    of price increases above the levels of the hedges. See
    “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk”.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B