. Risk Factors — Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves" below.Integrated services. The Company continues to benefit from its integrated services to control drilling and operating costs and support the execution of its drilling program and operating activities.  The Company has Company-owned fracture stimulation fleets totaling approximately 360,000 horsepower supporting drilling operations in the Spraberry/Wolfcamp and Eagle Ford Shale areas.  The Company also owns other field service equipment, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. In April 2012, Pioneer acquired a large U.S. industrial sands company, which was renamed Premier Silica (see Note C of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for more information about the acquisition of Premier Silica). That acquisition secured a high-quality, low-cost and logistically advantaged brown sand supply for Pioneer to use for its growing fracture stimulation requirements in the Spraberry/Wolfcamp field.Acquisition activities. The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. During 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Company spent $104 million, $76 million and $158 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities.In December 2014, the Company acquired the remaining limited partner interests in five affiliated partnerships for $54 million and caused the partnerships to be merged with and into the Company. In addition, in December 2013, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding common units of Pioneer Southwest not already owned by the Company in exchange for 3.96 million shares of the Company's common stock through a merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company into Pioneer Southwest, the result of which was that Pioneer Southwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The 2014 and 2013 mergers enhance the Company's (i) ability to fully and optimally develop the Company's Spraberry/Wolfcamp properties in the Midland Basin in West Texas utilizing horizontal drilling and (ii) organizational, operational and administrative efficiencies. The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. The success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the Company's control. See ". Risk Factors - The Company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the Company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters" for discussion of risk factors associated with the completion of divestitures.Marketing of ProductionGeneral. Production from the Company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk.Significant purchasers. During 2014, the Company's significant purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were Plains Marketing LP (24 percent), Occidental Energy Marketing Inc. (13 percent), Enterprise Products Partners L.P. (11 percent) and Valero Marketing and Supply Company (10 percent). The Company believes the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and NGL fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production. See ". Risk Factors" occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical.The Company's business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.As an oil and gas producer, the Company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of the Company's facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats has subjected the Company's operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In particular, the Company's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the Company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the Company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. These events could damage the Company's reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. A failure by purchasers of the Company's production to satisfy their obligations to the Company could require the Company to recognize a pre-tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation.The Company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. To the extent that purchasers of the Company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the Company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. If for any reason the Company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the Company's production were uncollectible, the Company would recognize a pre-tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss.25Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANYDeclining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.Since 2010, the economies in the United States and certain other countries have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. However, other economies, such as those of certain European and Asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth and, should these conditions worsen, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the Company could sell its oil, NGLs and gas and ultimately decrease the Company's net revenue and profitability.Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.In recent years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas companies. Such tax legislation changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, NGLs and gas the Company produces.In 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has adopted regulations under the CAA that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the PSD of air quality by GHG emissions from large stationary sources that already may be potential sources of other regulated pollutant emissions.  The Company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the Company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of GHGs from such sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions on an annual basis from specified GHG emission sources in the United States, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which include certain of the Company's facilities. While the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of federal climate legislation in the United States, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise restricts emissions of GHGs from the Company's equipment and operations could require the Company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax. For example, pursuant to President Obama's Strategy to Reduce Methane Emissions, the Obama Administration announced on January 14, 2015, that EPA is expected to propose in the summer of 2015 and finalize in 2016 new regulations that will set methane emission standards for new and modified oil and gas production and gas processing and transmission facilities as part of the Administration's efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost to the consumer, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the Company produces. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.  See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulations - Environmental and occupational health and safety matters - Climate change" for additional discussion relating to climate change.The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") enacted on July 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the Company, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations for its 26Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANYimplementation.  In October 2011, the CFTC issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The initial position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012.  However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide derivative transactions.  As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on the Company is uncertain at this time. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require the Company, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements.  The CFTC has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. Although the Company believes it qualifies for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to mitigate its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the Company's derivatives. Although the CFTC has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished or what the effect of any such regulations will be on the Company. For example, for uncleared swaps, the CFTC or federal banking regulators may require end-users to enter into credit support documentation and/or post initial and variation margin. Posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available to the Company for capital expenditures, therefore reducing its ability to execute derivatives to reduce risk and protect cash flows. The proposed margin rules are not yet final, and therefore the impact of those provisions to the Company is uncertain at this time. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory requirements upon the Company's business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the Company encounters and reduce the Company's ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts. If the Company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, the Company's results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the Company's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. The Company's revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the Company, its financial condition and its results of operations.  In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent the Company transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, it may become subject to such regulations. At this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear.Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect the Company's production.Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. The Company routinely utilizes hydraulic fracturing techniques in the majority of its drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process.  For example, the EPA has issued final CAA regulations governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing; announced its intent to propose in the first half of 2015 effluent limit guidelines that wastewater from shale gas extraction operations must meet before discharging to a treatment plant; and issued in May 2014 a prepublication of its Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing.  Also, in May 2013, the BLM issued a revised proposed rule containing disclosure requirements and other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands and the agency is now analyzing comments to the proposed rulemaking and is expected to promulgate a final rule in the first half of 2015.From time to time, the U.S. Congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In addition, certain states in which the Company operates, including Colorado and Texas have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. States could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, as Governor Andrew Cuomo of the State of New York announced in December 2014 with regard to fracturing activities in New York. Also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. For example, in response to concerns regarding hydraulic fracturing, the city of Denton, Texas issued a moratorium on the issuance of new drilling permits inside the Denton city limits. In the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the Company is currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, the Company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may 27Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANYbe significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that the Company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves.Certain governmental reviews are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and a draft report is expected to be available for public comment and peer review in the first half of 2015. These existing or any future studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulations - Environmental and occupational health and safety matters" for additional discussion related to environmental risks associated with the Company's hydraulic fracturing activities.Laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the Company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs.Various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. These statutes include the ESA, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the CWA, OPA and CERCLA. The FWS may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. For example, on March 27, 2014, the FWS announced the listing of the lesser prairie chicken as a threatened species under the ESA. The lesser prairies chicken's habitat is over a five-state region, including Texas and Colorado, where we conduct operations. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. If harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling or construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the FWS is required to make a determination on the listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year.  The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the Company conducts operations could cause the Company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays or limitations on its development and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to develop and produce reserves. Provisions of the Company's charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Company's common stock.Provisions in the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the Company or a merger in which the Company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the Company's board of directors and management. In addition, because the Company is incorporated in Delaware, it is governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions could discourage an acquisition of the Company or other change in control transactions and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Company's common stock.The Company's sand mining operations are subject to operating risks that are often beyond the Company's control, and such risks may not be covered by insurance.Ownership of industrial sand mining operations is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the Company's control. These risks include:•unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures;•cave-ins, pit wall failures or rock falls;•unanticipated ground, grade or water conditions;•inclement or hazardous weather conditions, including flooding, and the physical impacts of climate change;•environmental hazards, such as unauthorized spills, releases and discharges of wastes, vessel ruptures and emission of unpermitted levels of pollutants;•changes in laws and regulations;•inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or water rights;•restrictions on blasting operations;•inability to obtain necessary production equipment or replacement parts;•reduction in the amount of water available for processing;•technical difficulties or failures;28Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY•labor disputes;•late delivery of supplies;•fires, explosions or other accidents; and•facility interruptions or shutdowns in response to environmental regulatory actions.Any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, the Company's mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, losses or possible legal liability. Not all of these risks are insurable, and the Company's insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. The Company's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet its needs in the event of loss and any such loss may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company's estimates of sand reserves and resource deposits are imprecise and actual reserves could be less than estimated.The Company bases its sand reserve and resource estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by engineers and geologists, which are periodically reviewed by outside firms. However, commercial sand reserve estimates are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available drilling data, which may prove unreliable. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of commercial sand reserves and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond the Company's control. Estimates of economically recoverable commercial sand reserves necessarily depend on a number of factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as:•geological and mining conditions or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience;•assumptions concerning future prices of commercial sand products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and•assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies.The Company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that impose significant costs and potential liabilities. The Company's sand mining operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental requirements affecting the mining and mineral processing industry, including, among others, those relating to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air emissions and water discharges, GHG emissions, water pollution, waste management and disposal, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use restrictions, reclamation and restoration of properties, hazardous materials and natural resources. Some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as the CERCLA, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of releases of hazardous substances. Failure to properly handle, transport, store or dispose of hazardous materials or otherwise conduct the Company's sand mining operations in compliance with environmental laws could expose the Company to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs and civil or criminal liability associated with releases of such materials into the environment, damages to property or natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair the Company's ability to conduct its sand mining operations. In addition, environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment, replacement or interpretation by more stringent and comprehensive legal requirements. The Company's continued compliance with existing or future laws and regulations could restrict the Company's ability to expand its facilities or extract mineral deposits or could require the Company to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its sand mining operations, which restrictions or costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations.Any failure by the Company to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in connection with its sand mining operations may cause governmental authorities to take actions that could adversely affect the Company, including:•issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties;•denial, modification or revocation of permits or other authorizations;•imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on the Company's operations, including interruptions or cessation of operations; and•requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions.In addition to environmental regulation, the Company's sand mining operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety, including such matters as human exposure to crystalline silica dust. Several federal and state regulatory authorities, including the U.S. Mining Safety and Health Administration, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica, such as permissible exposure limits and required controls and personal protective equipment. 29Table of ContentsPIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANYThe Company's sand mining operations are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of the Company's sand mining operations.The Company's sand mining operations are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended by the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. The Company's failure to comply with such standards, or changes in such standards or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations or otherwise impose significant restrictions on the Company's ability to conduct mineral extraction and processing operations.The Company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive other regulations that impose significant costs and liabilities. In addition to the environmental and occupational health and safety regulation discussed above, the Company's sand mining operations are also subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, and the effects that mining have on groundwater quality and availability. Also, the Company's sand mining operations require numerous governmental, environmental, mining and other permits, water rights and approvals authorizing operations at each sand mining facility.  In order to obtain permits and renewals of permits in the future for its sand mining operations, the Company may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the effect that any such activities may have on the environment. Obtaining or renewing required permits may be delayed or prevented due to opposition by neighboring property owners, members of the public or other third parties and other factors beyond the Company's control. A decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations at the affected facility. Current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations and the Company may not be able to renew or obtain permits in the future. The Company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The inhalation of respirable crystalline silica dust is associated with the lung disease silicosis. There is evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders, such as scleroderma. These health risks have been a significant issue confronting the commercial sand industry. The actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling sand could materially and adversely affect the Company through the threat of product liability or personal injury lawsuits and increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Premier Silica is named as a defendant, usually among many defendants, in numerous products liability lawsuits brought by or on behalf of current or former employees of Premier Silica's commercial customers alleging damages caused by silica exposure. As of December 31, 2014, Premier Silica was the subject of silica exposure claims from approximately 575 plaintiffs, the great majority of which claims have been inactive for many years due to the plaintiffs' failure to meet specific legal requirements to advance their claims. Almost all of the claims pending against Premier Silica arise out of the alleged use of Premier Silica's sand products in foundries or as an abrasive blast media and have been filed in the states of Texas and Missouri, although some cases have been brought in many other jurisdictions over the years. It is possible that Premier Silica will have additional silica-related claims filed against it, including claims that allege silica exposure for periods for which there is not insurance coverage. In addition, it is possible that similar claims could be asserted arising out of the Company's other operations, including it hydraulic fracturing operations. Any pending or future claims or inadequacies of insurance coverage or contractual indemnification could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.ITEM 1B