Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Environmental MattersBy virtue of operating our wafer fabrication facilities, we are subject to a variety of extensive and changing domestic and international federal, state and local governmental laws, regulations and ordinances related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in the manufacturing process.  We provide our own manufacturing waste water treatment and disposal for most of our manufacturing facilities and we have contracted for the disposal of hazardous waste.  State agencies require us to report usage of environmentally hazardous materials, and we have retained appropriate personnel to help ensure compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. We believe that costs arising from existing environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.  We are an ISO 14001:2004 certified manufacturer with a comprehensive Environmental Management System (“EMS”) in place in order to help ensure control of the environmental aspects of the manufacturing process.  Our EMS mandates compliance and establishes appropriate checks and balances to minimize the potential for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.We actively monitor the hazardous materials that are used in the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products, particularly materials that are retained in the final product.  We have developed specific restrictions on the content of certain hazardous materials in our products, as well as those of our suppliers and outsourced manufacturers and subcontractors.  This helps to ensure that our products are compliant with the requirements of the markets into which the products will be sold.  For example, our products are compliant with the European Union RoHS Directive (2011/65/EU on the Restriction of Use of Hazardous Substances), which prohibits the sale in the European Union market of new electrical and electronic equipment containing certain families of substances above a specified threshold.We do not currently anticipate any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for fiscal 2017 or fiscal 2018. 15Table of ContentsAccess to Public InformationWe make available, free of charge through our website (http://www.qorvo.com), our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format) and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these reports with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  The public may also request a copy of our forms filed with the SEC, without charge upon written request, directed to:Investor Relations Department Qorvo, Inc.  7628 Thorndike Road Greensboro, NC 27409-9421The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We have included our website address as a factual reference and do not intend it as an active link to our website.In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  You may also read and copy any documents that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the operation of the Public Reference Room.ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.Our operating results fluctuate.Our revenue, earnings, margins and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future.  If demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and profitability could be impacted.  Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including the following:•changes in business and macroeconomic conditions, including downturns in the semiconductor industry and the overall global economy and changes in credit markets;•changes in consumer confidence caused by many factors, including changes in interest rates, credit markets, expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other commodity prices;•fluctuations in demand for our customers’ products;•our ability to predict market requirements and evolving industry standards accurately and in a timely manner;•our ability to predict customer demand accurately to limit obsolete inventory, which would reduce our margins;•the ability of third-party foundries and other third-party suppliers to manufacture, assemble and test our products in a timely and cost-effective manner;•our customers’ and distributors’ ability to manage the inventory that they hold and to forecast accurately their demand for our products;•our ability to achieve cost savings and improve yields and margins on our new and existing products; •our ability to respond to downward pressure on the average selling prices of our products; and•our ability to utilize our capacity efficiently or acquire additional capacity in response to customer demand.16Table of ContentsIt is likely that our future operating results could be adversely affected by one or more of the factors set forth above or other similar factors.  If our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline.Our operating results are substantially dependent on development of new products and achieving design wins. The average selling prices of our products have historically decreased over the products' lives and we expect this to continue.  To offset these average selling price decreases, we must achieve yield improvements and other cost reductions for existing products, and introduce new products that can be manufactured at lower costs or that command higher prices based on superior performance.  Our future success is dependent on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner and secure production orders from our customers.  The development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products at times in the past.  Our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following:•our ability to predict market requirements and define and design new products that address those requirements;•our ability to design products that meet our customers’ cost, size and performance requirements;•acceptance of our new product designs;•the availability of qualified product designers;•our timely completion of product designs and ramp up of new products according to our customers’ needs with acceptable manufacturing yields; and•market acceptance of our customers' products and the duration of the life cycle of such products.We may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may fail to meet the requirements of the market or our customers.  In that case, we likely will not reach the expected level of production orders, which could adversely affect our operating results.  Even when a design win is achieved, our success is not assured.  Design wins may require significant expenditures by us and typically precede volume revenue by six to nine months or more.  Many customers seek a second source for all major components in their devices, which can significantly impact the revenue obtained from a design win.  The actual value of a design win to us will ultimately depend on the commercial success of our customer’s product.We depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue.A substantial portion of our MP revenue comes from large purchases by a small number of customers.  Our future operating results depend on both the success of our largest customers and on our success in diversifying our products and customer base.We typically manufacture custom products on an exclusive basis for individual customers for a negotiated period of time.  Increasingly, the largest cellular handset OEMs are releasing fewer new phone models on an annual basis, which heightens the importance of achieving design wins for these larger opportunities.  While the rewards for a design win are financially greater, competition for these projects is intense.  The concentration of our revenue with a relatively small number of customers makes us particularly dependent on factors affecting those customers.  For example, if demand for their products decreases, they may stop purchasing our products and our operating results would suffer.  Most of our customers can cease incorporating our products into their products with little notice to us and with little or no penalty.  The loss of a large customer and failure to add new customers to replace lost revenue would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.17Table of ContentsWe face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the U.S. government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed.We receive a portion of our revenue from the U.S. government and from prime contractors on U.S. government-sponsored programs, principally for defense and aerospace applications.  These programs are subject to delays or cancellation.  Further, spending on defense and aerospace contracts can vary significantly depending on funding from the U.S. government. We believe our government and defense and aerospace contracts in the recent past have been negatively affected by external factors such as sequestration and political pressure to reduce federal defense spending. Reductions in defense and aerospace funding or the loss of a significant defense and aerospace program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results.We depend heavily on third parties.We purchase numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products from external suppliers.  We also utilize third-party suppliers for numerous services, including die processing, wafer bumping, test and tape and reel.  The use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, product quality and fabrication costs.We currently use several external manufacturing suppliers to supplement our internal manufacturing capabilities.  We believe all of our key vendors and suppliers are compliant with applicable ISO 9001 and/or TS-16949 standards.  However, if these vendors' processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products, our reputation and our results of operations.We face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities.We operate wafer fabrication facilities in Florida, North Carolina, Oregon and Texas.  We currently use several international and domestic assembly suppliers, as well as internal assembly facilities in the U.S., China, Costa Rica, the Philippines and Germany to assemble and test our products.  We currently have our own test and tape and reel facilities located in the U.S., China, Costa Rica and the Philippines, and we also utilize contract suppliers and partners in Asia to test our products.A number of factors will affect the future success of our facilities, including the following:•demand for our products;•our ability to adjust production capacity in a timely fashion in response to changes in demand for our products;•our ability to generate revenue in amounts that cover the significant fixed costs of operating the facilities;•our ability to qualify our facilities for new products and new technologies in a timely manner;•the availability of raw materials and the impact of the volatility of commodity pricing on raw materials, including GaAs substrates, gold and high purity source materials such as gallium, aluminum, arsenic, indium, silicon, phosphorous and beryllium;•our manufacturing cycle times;•our manufacturing yields;•the political and economic risks associated with our manufacturing operations in China, Costa Rica, the Philippines and Germany;•potential violations by our international employees or third-party agents of international or U.S. laws relevant to foreign operations;18Table of Contents•our reliance on our internal facilities;•our ability to hire, train and manage qualified production personnel;•our compliance with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations, including social responsibilities and conflict minerals requirements;•our ability to avoid prolonged periods of down-time in our facilities for any reason; and•the occurrence of natural disasters anywhere in the world, which could directly or indirectly affect our facilities, subcontractor operations, and supply chain.Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs.Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, climate change, medical epidemics or pandemics and other public health issues, military actions, acts of terrorism, political or regulatory issues and other natural or man-made disasters or catastrophic events.  We carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits we deem adequate for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of our operations.  However, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and increase our costs and expenses.  Any disruptions from these events could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations and have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the extent that losses exceed insurance recoveries and to the extent that such disruptions might adversely impact our relationships with our customers.If we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer.Our products are very complex.  Each product has a unique design and is fabricated using semiconductor process technologies that are highly complex.  In many cases, the products are assembled in customized packages.  Our products, many of which consist of multiple components in a single package, feature enhanced levels of integration and complexity.  Our customers insist that our products be designed to meet their exact specifications for quality, performance and reliability.  Our manufacturing yield is a combination of yields across the entire supply chain including wafer fabrication, assembly and test yields.  Due to the complexity of our products, we periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields and other quality issues, particularly with respect to new products.Our customers test our products once they have been assembled into their products.  The number of usable products that result from our production process can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the following:•design errors;•defects in photomasks (which are used to print circuits on a wafer);•minute impurities in materials used;•contamination of the manufacturing environment;•equipment failure or variations in the manufacturing processes;•losses from broken wafers or other human error; and•defects in packaging.We constantly seek to improve our manufacturing yields.  Typically, for a given level of sales, when our yields improve, our gross margins improve, and when our yields decrease, our unit costs are higher, our margins are lower, and our operating results are adversely affected.19Table of ContentsCosts of product defects and deviations from required specifications could include the following:• writing off the value of inventory;•disposing of products that cannot be fixed; •recalling products that have been shipped; •providing product replacements or modifications; •direct and indirect costs incurred by our customers in recalling their products due to defects in our products; and •defending against litigation.  These costs could be significant and could reduce our gross margins.  Our reputation with customers also could be damaged as a result of product defects and quality issues, and product demand could be reduced, which could harm our business and financial results.We are subject to increased inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products.In order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest customers, we start manufacturing certain products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers.  However, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to or consumed by the customer.  As a result, we incur significant inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales.  Because demand for our products may not materialize, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to heightened risks of higher inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence and higher operating costs.  These inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this reduces our visibility regarding the customers' accumulated levels of inventory.  If product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and other operating results.We sell certain of our products based on reference designs of platform providers, and our inability to effectively manage or maintain our evolving relationships with these companies may have an adverse effect on our business.Platform providers are typically large companies that provide system reference designs for OEMs and ODMs that include the platform provider's baseband and other complementary products.  A platform provider may own or control IP that gives it a strong market position for their baseband products for certain air interface standards, which provides it with significant influence and control over sales of RF products for these standards.  Platform providers historically looked to us and our competitors to provide RF products to their customers as part of the overall system design, and we competed with other RF companies to have our products included in the platform provider's system reference design.  This market dynamic has evolved in recent years as platform providers have worked to develop more fully integrated solutions that include their own RF technologies and components.Platform providers may be in a different business from ours or we may be their customer or direct competitor.  Accordingly, we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with competitive and other factors.  Because platform providers control the overall system reference design, if they offer competitive RF technologies or their own RF solutions as a part of their reference design and exclude our products from the design, we are at a distinct competitive disadvantage with OEMs and ODMs that are seeking a turn-key design solution, even if our products offer superior performance. This requires us to work more closely with OEMs and ODMs to secure the design of our products in their handsets and other devices.Our relationships with platform providers are complex and evolving, and the inability to effectively manage or maintain these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.20Table of ContentsWe are subject to risks from international sales and operations.We operate globally with sales offices and R&D activities as well as manufacturing, assembly and testing facilities in multiple countries.  As a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside the U.S.  Global operations involve inherent risks that include currency controls and fluctuations as well as tariff, import and other related restrictions and regulations.Sales to customers located outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 88% of our revenue in fiscal 2016, of which approximately 61% and 14% were attributable to sales to customers located in China and Taiwan, respectively.  We expect that revenue from international sales to China and other markets will continue to be a significant part of our total revenue.  Any weakness in the Chinese economy could result in a decrease in demand for consumer products that contain our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business.Because the majority of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, our products become less price-competitive in countries with currencies that are low or are declining in value against the U.S. dollar.  Also, we cannot be sure that our international customers will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars.   The majority of our assembly, test and tape and reel vendors are located in Asia.  We do the majority of our business with our foreign assemblers in U.S. dollars.  Our manufacturing costs could increase in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the U.S. dollar.  Also, we cannot be sure that our international manufacturing suppliers will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars.In addition, if terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability occur, such events may disrupt manufacturing, assembly, logistics, security and communications, and could also result in reduced demand for our products.  Pandemics and similar major health concerns could also adversely affect our business and our customer order patterns.  We could also be affected if labor issues disrupt our transportation or manufacturing arrangements or those of our customers or suppliers.  On a worldwide basis, we regularly review our key infrastructure, systems, services and suppliers, both internally and externally, to seek to identify significant vulnerabilities as well as areas of potential business impact if a disruptive event were to occur.  Once identified, we assess the risks, and as we consider it to be appropriate, we initiate actions intended to minimize the risks and their potential impact.  However, there can be no assurance that we have identified all significant risks or that we can mitigate all identified risks with reasonable effort.Economic regulation in China could adversely impact our business and results of operations.We have a significant portion of our assembly and testing capacity in China.  In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and wide fluctuations in the rate of inflation.  In response to these factors, the Chinese government has, from time to time, adopted measures to regulate growth and contain inflation, including measures designed to restrict credit or to control prices.  Such actions in the future could increase the cost of doing business in China or decrease the demand for our products in China, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.In May 2015, China’s government implemented a policy applicable to the three Chinese state-owned mobile telecommunications carriers that mandated 4G LTE network improvements and that implemented subsidies for Chinese consumers for both the purchase of 4G LTE mobile devices and for mobile telecom data service fees.  If subsidies under this policy are ended or curtailed, our business, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected.We operate in a very competitive industry and must continue to implement innovative technologies.We compete with several companies primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling RF solutions, as well as suppliers of discrete integrated circuits and modules.  In addition to our direct competitors, some of our largest customers and leading platform partners also compete with us to some extent by designing and manufacturing their own products.  Increased competition from any source could adversely affect our operating results through lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products, losses of existing design slots with key customers and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs.21Table of ContentsMany of our existing and potential competitors have entrenched market positions, historical affiliations with OEMs, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established IP rights and substantial technological capabilities.  Many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing or marketing resources than we do.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors.Our industry's technology changes rapidly.We primarily design and manufacture high-performance semiconductor components for wireless applications.  Our markets are characterized by the frequent introduction of new products in response to evolving product and process technologies and consumer demand for greater functionality, lower costs, smaller products and better performance.  As a result, we have experienced and will continue to experience some product design obsolescence.  We expect our customers' demands for reductions in cost and improvements in product performance to continue, which means that we must continue to improve our product designs and develop new products that may use new technologies.  It is possible that competing technologies will emerge that permit the manufacture of products that are equivalent or acceptable in terms of performance, but lower in cost, to the products we make under existing processes.  If we cannot design products using competitive technologies or develop competitive products, our operating results will be adversely affected.Industry overcapacity could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.It is difficult to predict future growth or decline in the demand for our products, which makes it very difficult to estimate requirements for production capacity.  In prior fiscal years, we have added significant capacity through acquisitions as well as by expanding capacity at our existing manufacturing facilities, and we are in the process of expanding our BAW, SAW and TC-SAW filter capacity at our existing facilities, including a new facility that we purchased in the first quarter of fiscal 2017.In the past, capacity additions by us and our competitors sometimes exceeded demand requirements, leading to oversupply situations.  Fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for our products lead to overcapacity and contribute to cyclicality in the semiconductor market.  As many of our manufacturing costs are fixed, these costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues experienced during periods in which we underutilize our manufacturing facilities as a result of overcapacity.  If the demand for our products is not consistent with our expectations, underutilization of our manufacturing facilities may have a material adverse effect on average selling prices, our gross margin and other operating results.We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing.We maintain a five-year senior credit facility with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and a lender, and a syndicate of other lenders (the “Credit Agreement”).  The Credit Agreement includes a $300.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a $25.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans.  We may request, at any time and from time to time, that the revolving credit facility be increased by an amount not to exceed $150.0 million.  The revolving credit facility is available to finance working capital, capital expenditures and for other corporate purposes.  This facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. We cannot assure that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations in the future when we may need to borrow funds under this facility.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, including our Senior Notes, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our debt, which may not be successful.In November 2015, we issued $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% Senior Notes due 2023 and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2025 (collectively, the “Notes”).  Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including the Notes, and to fund working capital, planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control.  We cannot be sure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating 22Table of Contentsactivities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the Notes.  If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt, including the Notes.  These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations.  We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds sought from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.  Additionally, the agreements governing our Credit Agreement and the Indenture governing the Notes limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed under these documents to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy our debt service obligations.  Further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The agreements and instruments governing our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility.The Credit Agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the Indenture governing the Notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to:•incur additional debt;•pay dividends, make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock;•prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;•make loans and investments;•sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets;•incur or permit to exist certain liens;•enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;•enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; and•consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.These covenants could have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete.  In addition, the Credit Agreement requires us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants.  Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility.  If we violate covenants under the Credit Agreement and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under our revolving credit facility would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders.  Because of cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our debt, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other debt.  If our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it.  Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.  If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions.The price of our common stock may be volatile.The price of our common stock, which is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations.  In addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate 23Table of Contentsand cause significant price variations to occur.  Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include:•general market and economic conditions, including market conditions in the semiconductor industry;•actual or expected variations in quarterly operating results;•differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;•changes in recommendations by securities analysts;•operations and stock performance of competitors;•accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill;•significant acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors;•sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors;•recruitment or departure of key personnel; and•loss of key customers.We cannot assure you that the price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future.  In addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance.We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders’ ownership and cause us to incur debt and assume contingent liabilities.As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review potential acquisitions that could complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth or margin improvement opportunities.  In the event of future acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, we could issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership, incur substantial debt or other financial obligations or assume contingent liabilities.  Such actions could harm our results of operations or the price of our common stock.  Acquisitions also entail numerous other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including:•unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements;•acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles;•diversion of management's attention from our business;•injury to existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; •failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses, operations, products, technologies and personnel; and•unrealized expected synergies.In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our business and our results of operations.In order to compete effectively, we must:•hire and retain qualified employees;•continue to develop leaders for key business units and functions;24Table of Contents•expand our presence in international locations and adapt to cultural norms of foreign locations; and•train and motivate our employee base.Our future operating results and success depend on keeping key technical personnel and management and expanding our sales and marketing, R&D and administrative support.  We do not have employment agreements with the vast majority of our employees.  We must also continue to attract qualified personnel.  The competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the number of people with experience, particularly in RF engineering, integrated circuits and filter design, and technical marketing and support, is limited.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain skilled personnel in the future.We rely on our intellectual property portfolio and may not be able to successfully protect against the use of our intellectual property by third parties.We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights.  We cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold.  Further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection against our competitors.  Our competitors may also be able to design around our patents.The laws of some countries in which our products are developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws.  This increases the possibility of piracy of our technology and products.  Although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology.  Additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours.We may need to engage in legal actions to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights.  Generally, intellectual property litigation is both expensive and unpredictable.  Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could have a material, adverse effect on our business.  These adverse effects may include injunctions, exclusion orders and royalty payments to third parties.Security breaches and other similar disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.We rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities.  We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and other parties.  We also restrict access to our proprietary information.Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information without our authorization.  Additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to improperly use or access our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information or otherwise interrupt our business.  Like others, we are also potentially subject to significant system or network disruptions, including new system implementations, computer viruses, facility access issues and energy blackouts.From time to time, we have experienced attacks on our computer systems by unauthorized outside parties; however, we do not believe that such attacks have resulted in any material damage to our customers or us.  Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks constantly evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate all of these techniques.  As a result, our technologies, processes and customer information may be misappropriated and the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.  Any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence in the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures, or cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the incident.  We routinely implement improvements to our network security safeguards and we are devoting increasing resources to the 25Table of Contentssecurity of our information technology systems.  We cannot, however, assure that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attack or network disruptions.We also rely on third-party service providers to protect our proprietary information.  Third party service providers include foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors that have access to our sensitive data.  These providers should have safeguards in place to protect our data.  Failure of these parties to properly safeguard our data could also result in security breaches and loss of proprietary information.The costs related to cyber or other security threats or computer systems disruptions typically would not be fully insured or indemnified by others.  Occurrence of any of the events described above could result in loss of competitive advantages derived from our R&D efforts or our IP.  Moreover, these events may result in the early obsolescence of our products; adversely affect our internal operations and reputation; or degrade our financial results and stock price.If wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to product liability litigation and new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our customers may decrease.Interest groups have requested that the Federal Communications Commission investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices.  Concerns have also been expressed over, and state laws have been enacted to mitigate, the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving.  Legislation that may be adopted in response to these concerns, product liability litigation or other lawsuits or adverse news or findings about health and safety risks could reduce demand for our products and those of our customers.  Any product liability litigation could result in significant expense and liability to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not the litigation is determined in our favor or covered by insurance.  Such findings or litigation may also adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.We are subject to stringent environmental regulations.We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements governing the protection of the environment. These environmental regulations include those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in our manufacturing processes.  A change in environmental laws or our failure to comply with environmental laws could subject us to substantial liability or force us to significantly change our manufacturing operations.  In addition, under some of these laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Growing concerns about climate change, including the impact of global warming, may result in new regulations with respect to greenhouse gas emissions.  Our compliance with this legislation may result in additional costs.Two former production facilities at Scotts Valley and Palo Alto, California from TriQuint's acquisition of WJ Communications, Inc. have significant environmental liabilities for which we have entered into and funded fixed price remediation agreements and obtained cost-overrun and unknown pollution insurance coverage. These arrangements may not be sufficient to cover all liabilities related to these two sites.Compliance with regulations regarding the use of “conflict minerals” could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.Regulations in the United States require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources.  The verification and reporting requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals that are used in the manufacture of our products.  We have incurred costs and expect to incur additional costs associated with complying with these requirements.  Additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement.  We may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free.26Table of ContentsOur certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests.Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of Qorvo that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions include:•granting to the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors and fill any vacancy on the board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise;•the ability of the board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors;•the inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;•establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and•the inability of stockholders to act by written consent.In addition, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware contains provisions that regulate “business combinations” between corporations and interested stockholders who own 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock, except under certain circumstances. These provisions could also discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a change in control.These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit of any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context, and may also make it more difficult for a third party to replace directors on our board of directors.  Further, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.Our operating results could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies.The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in Part II, Item 7 of this report).  Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments that could significantly affect our results of operations.Decisions we make about the scope of our future operations could affect our future financial results. Changes in the business environment could lead us to decide to change the scope of operations of our business, which could result in restructuring and asset impairment charges.  The amount and timing of such charges can be difficult to predict.  Factors that contribute to the amount and timing of such charges include: •the timing and execution of plans and programs that are subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils;•changes in assumptions related to severance and post-retirement costs;•the timing of future divestitures and the amount and type of proceeds realized from such divestitures; and•changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets and goodwill.27Table of ContentsChanges in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations.We are subject to taxation in the U.S., China, Singapore and numerous other foreign taxing jurisdictions.  Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations as it is impacted by a number of factors, including the following:•the amount of profit determined to be earned and taxed in each jurisdiction; •the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; •changes in the valuation of either our gross deferred tax assets or gross deferred tax liabilities; •adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; •increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes;•changes in available tax credits; •changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles;•impact of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Base Erosion and Profit Shifting initiative on tax policy and enacted laws; and  •a future decision to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods.Changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiaries in Costa Rica and Singapore would have an adverse impact on our operating results.Our subsidiaries in Costa Rica and Singapore have been granted tax holidays that effectively minimize our tax expense and that are expected to be effective through March 2024 and December 2021, respectively.  In their efforts to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations.  As part of this effort, governments continue to review their policies on granting tax holidays.  Changes in the status of either tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years.Our management has identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for income taxes. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the trading prices of our securities. As disclosed in “Item 9A-Controls and Procedures” below, our management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the effective monitoring and oversight of controls over the completeness, existence, accuracy, valuation and presentation of the income tax provision, including deferred tax assets, valuation allowances, and tax uncertainties.  A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are actively remediating the identified material weakness.  If our remediation efforts are insufficient to address the identified material weakness or if additional material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered in the future, they may adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information timely and accurately and, as a result, our financial statements may contain material misstatements or omissions, which could result in regulatory scrutiny and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading prices of our securities. 28ITEM 1B