ITEM 1A.
    RISK FACTORS


 


    In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report,
    the following are some of the important factors that could
    affect our business.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    Our
    operating and financial results may fluctuate due to a number of
    factors, many of which are beyond our control.


 


    Our annual and quarterly operating and financial results are
    affected by a number of economic, regulatory and competitive
    factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    changes in current financial, tax or regulatory requirements
    that could negatively impact the leasing market;




 



     
        •  

    
    our inability to obtain expected customer retention levels or
    sales growth targets;




 



     
        •  

    
    unanticipated interest rate and currency exchange rate
    fluctuations;




 



     
        •  

    
    labor strikes, work stoppages or driver shortages affecting us
    or our customers;




 



     
        •  

    
    sudden changes in fuel prices and fuel shortages;




 



     
        •  

    
    relationships with and competition from vehicle manufacturers;




 



     
        •  

    
    changes in accounting rules, estimates, assumptions and
    accruals; and




 



     
        •  

    
    outages, system failures or delays in timely access to data in
    legacy information technology systems that support key business
    processes.





 



    Our
    business and operating results could be adversely affected by
    unfavorable economic and industry conditions.


 


    In 2009, we managed through the challenges of the prolonged
    freight recession. The recession impacted our FMS customers
    which continued to cope with reduced freight activity by
    downsizing their fleets and running less miles with the existing
    fleet. Our transactional commercial rental business also felt
    the effects of current market conditions as demand continued to
    decline throughout the year. In addition, we were impacted by
    lower SCS automotive production volumes and overall freight
    volumes. Uncertainty around macroeconomic and industry
    conditions may impact the spending and financial position of our
    customers.


 


    Challenging economic and market conditions may also result in:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited
    visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective
    customers;




 



     
        •  

    
    increased competition for fewer projects and sales opportunities;




 



     
        •  

    
    pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross
    margin;




 



     
        •  

    
    higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue;




 



     
        •  

    
    increased risk of charges relating to asset impairments,
    including goodwill and other intangible assets;




 



     
        •  

    
    customer financial difficulty and increased risk of
    uncollectible accounts receivable;




 



     
        •  

    
    diminished liquidity and credit availability resulting in higher
    short-term borrowing costs and more stringent borrowing terms




 



     
        •  

    
    fleet downsizing which could adversely impact
    profitability; and




 



     
        •  

    
    increased risk of declines in the residual values of our
    vehicles.





 


    We are uncertain as to how long current, unfavorable
    macroeconomic and industry conditions will persist and the
    magnitude of their effects on our business and results of
    operations. If these conditions persist or further weaken, our
    business and results of operations could be materially adversely
    affected.


 



    We bear
    the residual risk on the value of our vehicles.


 


    We generally bear the residual risk on the value of our
    vehicles. Therefore, if the market for used vehicles declines,
    or our vehicles are not properly maintained, we may obtain lower
    sales proceeds upon the





    
    12



Table of Contents





    sale of used vehicles. Changes in residual values also impact
    the overall competitiveness of our full service lease product
    line, as estimated sales proceeds are a critical component of
    the overall price of the product. Additionally, technology
    changes and sudden changes in supply and demand together with
    other market factors beyond our control vary from year to year
    and from vehicle to vehicle, making it difficult to accurately
    predict residual values used in calculating our depreciation
    expense. Although we have developed disciplines related to the
    management and maintenance of our vehicles that are designed to
    prevent these losses, there is no assurance that these practices
    will sufficiently reduce the residual risk. For a detailed
    discussion on our accounting policies and assumptions relating
    to depreciation and residual values, please see the section
    titled “Critical Accounting Estimates —
    Depreciation and Residual Value Guarantees” in
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations.


 



    Our
    profitability could be adversely impacted by our inability to
    maintain appropriate commercial rental utilization rates through
    our asset management initiatives.


 


    We typically do not purchase vehicles for our full service lease
    product line until we have an executed contract with a customer.
    In our commercial rental product line, however, we do not
    purchase vehicles against specific customer contracts. Rather,
    we purchase vehicles and optimize the size and mix of the
    commercial rental fleet based upon our expectations of overall
    market demand. As a result, we bear the risk for ensuring that
    we have the proper vehicles in the right condition and location
    to effectively capitalize on market demand in order to drive the
    highest levels of utilization and revenue per unit. We employ a
    sales force and operations team on a full-time basis to manage
    and optimize this product line; however, their efforts may not
    be sufficient to overcome a significant change in market demand
    in the rental business or used vehicle market.


 



    Volatility
    in automotive volumes and shifting customer demand in the
    automotive industry would adversely affect our
    results.


 


    Approximately 42% of our global SCS revenue is from the
    automotive industry and is directly impacted by automotive
    vehicle production. In addition, a number of our FMS customers,
    particularly transportation and trucking companies, provide
    services to the automotive industry. Automotive sales and
    production are impacted by general economic conditions, consumer
    preference, fuel prices, labor relations, the availability of
    credit and other factors. The automotive industry in 2009 was
    significantly impacted by the global recession resulting in the
    restructuring of General Motors Corporation (GM) and Chrysler,
    LLC. The restructuring of these North American OEMs resulted in
    more competitive cost structures and capacity in line with
    demand. However, if stronger sales do not materialize in 2010
    due to a still weakened economy, the OEMs will likely respond by
    reducing production capacity both through plant shutdowns and a
    reduction in the number of production shifts as they did in
    early 2009. These plant shutdowns and shift eliminations have
    negatively impacted our results in 2009. Any prolonged plant
    shutdowns and additional shift eliminations can significantly
    reduce our operations with the OEMs as well as the operations of
    the automotive suppliers and transportation providers that we
    service in both our FMS and SCS businesses, and can have a
    negative impact on our future results.


 



    We derive
    a significant portion of our SCS revenue from a relatively small
    number of customers.


 


    During 2009, sales to our top ten SCS customers representing all
    of the industry groups we service, accounted for 61% of our SCS
    total revenue and 60% of our SCS operating revenue (revenue less
    subcontracted transportation), with GM accounting for 13% and
    14% of our SCS total and operating revenue, respectively. The
    loss of any of these customers or a significant reduction in the
    services provided to any of these customers, particularly GM,
    could impact our domestic and international operations and
    adversely affect our SCS financial results. While we continue to
    focus our efforts on diversifying our customer base we may not
    be successful in doing so in the short-term.


 


    In addition, our largest SCS customers can exert downward
    pricing pressure and often require modifications to our standard
    commercial terms. While we believe our ongoing cost reduction
    initiatives have helped mitigate the effect of price reduction
    pressures from our SCS customers, there is no assurance that we
    will be able to maintain or improve profitability in those
    accounts.




    
    13



Table of Contents






    Our
    profitability could be negatively impacted if the key
    assumptions and pricing structure of our SCS contracts prove to
    be invalid.


 


    Substantially all of our SCS services are provided under
    contractual arrangements with our customers. Under most of these
    contracts, all or a portion of our pricing is based on certain
    assumptions regarding the scope of services, production volumes,
    operational efficiencies, the mix of fixed versus variable
    costs, productivity and other factors. If, as a result of
    subsequent changes in our customers’ business needs or
    operations or market forces that are outside of our control,
    these assumptions prove to be invalid, we could have lower
    margins than anticipated. Although certain of our contracts
    provide for renegotiation upon a material change, there is no
    assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary
    price adjustments.


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive industry and our business may
    suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward
    pricing pressures and other competitive factors.


 


    Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to
    maintain our current profitability. These factors include the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    we compete with many other transportation and logistics service
    providers, some of which have greater capital resources than we
    do;




 



     
        •  

    
    some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain
    business, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase
    prices;




 



     
        •  

    
    because cost of capital is a significant competitive factor, any
    increase in either our debt or equity cost of capital as a
    result of reductions in our debt rating or stock price
    volatility could have a significant impact on our competitive
    position; and




 



     
        •  

    
    advances in technology require increased investments to remain
    competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept
    higher prices to cover the cost of these investments.





 



    We
    operate in a highly regulated industry, and costs of compliance
    with, or liability for violation of, existing or future
    regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing
    business.


 


    Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state
    and foreign governmental entities. Specifically, the
    U.S. Department of Transportation and various state and
    federal agencies exercise broad powers over our motor carrier
    operations, safety, and the generation, handling, storage,
    treatment and disposal of waste materials. We may also become
    subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by the
    Department of Transportation, the Occupational Safety and Health
    Administration, the Department of Homeland Security and
    U.S. Customs Service, the Environmental Protection Agency
    or other authorities, relating to the hours of service that our
    drivers may provide in any one-time period, homeland security,
    carbon emissions and reporting and other matters. Compliance
    with these regulations could substantially impair labor and
    equipment productivity and increase our costs. Recent changes in
    and ongoing development of data privacy laws may result in
    increased exposure relating to our data security costs in order
    to comply with new standards.


 


    With respect to our international operations, we are subject to
    compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements in
    foreign jurisdictions, including local tax laws, and compliance
    with the Federal Corrupt Practices Act. Adherence to rigorous
    local laws and regulatory requirements may limit our ability to
    expand into certain international markets and result in residual
    liability for legal claims and tax disputes arising out of
    previously discontinued operations.


 


    New regulations governing exhaust emissions could adversely
    impact our business. The Environmental Protection Agency has
    issued regulations that require progressive reductions in
    exhaust emissions from certain diesel engines from 2007 through
    2010. Emissions standards require reductions in the sulfur
    content of diesel fuel since June 2006. Also, the first phase of
    progressively stringent emissions standards relating to
    emissions after-treatment devices was introduced on
    newly-manufactured engines and vehicles utilizing engines built
    after January 1, 2007. The second phase, which required an
    additional after-treatment system, became





    
    14



Table of Contents





    effective after January 1, 2010. In addition, each of these
    requirements could result in higher prices for vehicles, diesel
    engines and fuel, which are passed on to our customers, as well
    as higher maintenance costs and uncertainty as to reliability of
    the new engines, all of which could, over time, increase our
    costs and adversely affect our business and results of
    operations. The new technology may also impact the residual
    values of these vehicles when sold in the future.


 



    Volatility
    in assumptions and asset values related to our pension plans may
    reduce our profitability and adversely impact current funding
    levels.


 


    We historically sponsored a number of defined benefit plans for
    employees in the U.S., U.K. and other foreign locations. In the
    past few years, we have made amendments to defined benefit plans
    which freeze the retirement benefits for non-grandfathered and
    certain non-union employees. Our major defined benefit plans are
    funded, with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio.
    The cash contributions made to our defined benefit plans are
    required to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by
    employee benefit and tax laws. The projected benefit obligation
    and assets of our global defined benefit plans as of
    December 31, 2009 were $1.60 billion and
    $1.28 million, respectively. The difference between plan
    obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a
    significant factor in determining pension expense and the
    ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Macroeconomic
    factors, as well as changes in investment returns and discount
    rates used to calculate pension expense and related assets and
    liabilities can be volatile and may have an unfavorable impact
    on our costs and funding requirements. We also participate in
    twelve U.S. multi-employer pension (MEP) plans that provide
    defined benefits to employees covered by collective bargaining
    agreements. In the event that we withdraw from participation in
    one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make
    an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan. Our withdrawal
    liability for any MEP plan would depend on the extent of the
    plan’s funding of vested benefits. Economic conditions have
    caused MEP plans to be significantly underfunded. If the
    financial condition of the MEP plans were to continue to
    deteriorate, participating employers could be subject to
    additional assessments. Although we have actively sought to
    control increases in these costs and funding requirements, there
    can be no assurance that we will succeed, and continued cost
    pressure could reduce the profitability of our business and
    negatively impact our cash flows.


 



    We
    establish self-insurance reserves based on historical loss
    development factors, which could lead to adjustments in the
    future based on actual development experience.


 


    We retain a portion of the accident risk under vehicle liability
    and workers’ compensation insurance programs. Our
    self-insurance accruals are based on actuarially estimated,
    undiscounted cost of claims, which includes claims incurred but
    not reported. While we believe that our estimation processes are
    well designed, every estimation process is inherently subject to
    limitations. Fluctuations in the frequency or severity of
    accidents make it difficult to precisely predict the ultimate
    cost of claims. In recent years, our development has been
    favorable compared to historical selected loss development
    factors because of improved safety performance, payment patterns
    and settlement patterns; however, there is no assurance we will
    continue to enjoy similar favorable development in the future.
    For a detailed discussion on our accounting policies and
    assumptions relating to our self-insurance reserves, please see
    the section titled “Critical Accounting
    Estimates — Self-Insurance Accruals” in
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations.



 



    ITEM 1B