ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following contains all known material risks that could affect our business.Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by uncertain or unfavorable economic and industry conditions.Ryder's operating results are affected by cyclical economic and market conditions in the U.S. and globally. In a weak or volatile economy, demand for our contractual services decreases and may be inconsistent and less predictable as customers are often unwilling to commit to full-service leases or long-term supply chain contracts.  Accordingly, any sustained weakness in demand or a protracted economic downturn can negatively impact our business. Although customer uncertainty can serve to increase demand for our transactional services, including commercial rental and used vehicles sales, which do not involve long-term commitments, these product lines are generally more cyclical due to their transactional nature, and results can vary in both the short- and long-term.92013 was a period of moderate economic recovery following a period of economic softness and uncertainty.  Although demand for commercial rental has appeared to stabilize, rental demand may again decline unexpectedly in 2014.  Similarly, although we experienced growth in full service lease during 2013, our customers still remain cautious about entering into long-term leases. If uncertainty and lack of customer confidence around macroeconomic and transportation industry conditions return, they may impact our future growth prospects, our business, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, including as follows:• difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective customers;• increased competition for projects and sales opportunities;• pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin;• higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue;• increased risk of charges relating to asset impairments, including goodwill and other intangible assets;• customer financial difficulty and increased risk of uncollectible accounts receivable;• additional fleet downsizing which could adversely impact profitability;• increased risk of declines in the residual values of our vehicles; and• sudden changes in fuel prices and fuel shortages, which may adversely impact total vehicle miles driven by our customers.In addition, volatility in the global credit and financial markets may lead to:• unanticipated interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations;• increased risk of default by counterparties under derivative instruments and hedging agreements; and • diminished liquidity and credit availability resulting in higher short-term borrowing costs and more stringent borrowing terms.We bear the residual risk on the value of our vehicles.We generally bear the residual risk on the value of our vehicles. Therefore, if the market for used vehicles declines, or there is a concern regarding the quality, maintenance or condition of our vehicles, we may obtain lower sales proceeds upon the sale of used vehicles. We sell our used vehicles through various channels, including retail sales centers, at our branch locations, through our website at www.UsedTrucks.Ryder.com, as well as through the wholesale market.  Pricing and demand for used vehicles varies among selling channels, particularly between the retail and wholesale markets, as we generally obtain lower proceeds on vehicles sold through wholesale channels.  If we are unable to meet our targeted fleet counts through our projected mix of retail versus wholesale sales, we may be required to sell more vehicles than planned by wholesale, which will impact our sales proceeds.  Changes in residual values also impact the overall competitiveness of our full service lease product line, as estimated sales proceeds are a significant component of the overall price of the lease. Additionally, technology changes and sudden changes in supply and demand together with other market factors beyond our control vary from year to year and from vehicle to vehicle, making it difficult to accurately predict residual values used in calculating our depreciation expense. Although we have developed disciplines related to the management and maintenance of our vehicles that are designed to prevent these losses, there is no assurance that these practices will sufficiently reduce the residual risk. For a detailed discussion on our accounting policies and assumptions relating to depreciation and residual values, please see the section titled “Critical Accounting Estimates - Depreciation and Residual Value Guarantees” in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Our profitability could be adversely impacted by our inability to maintain appropriate commercial rental utilization rates through our asset management initiatives.We typically do not purchase vehicles for our full service lease product line until we have an executed contract with a customer. However, in our commercial rental product line, we purchase vehicles and optimize the size and mix of the commercial rental fleet based upon our expectations of overall market demand. As a result, we bear the risk for ensuring that we have the proper vehicles in the right condition and location to effectively capitalize on market demand in order to drive the highest levels of utilization and revenue per unit. We employ a sales force and operations team on a full-time basis to manage and optimize this product line; however, their efforts may not be sufficient to overcome a significant change in market demand in the rental business.10Failure to maintain, upgrade and consolidate our information technology networks could adversely affect us, and we may be subject to cybersecurity risks which may be beyond our control.The success of our strategic initiatives designed to increase our sales and capture a greater percentage of the outsourced transportation and supply chain markets is dependent in varying degrees on the timely delivery and the functionality of information technology systems to support them.  Extended delays or cost overruns in securing, developing and otherwise implementing technology solutions to support the new business initiatives we are developing now, and will be developing in the future, would delay and possibly even prevent us from realizing the projected benefits of those initiatives.We are continuously upgrading and consolidating our systems, including making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality and acquiring new systems with new functionality. These types of activities subject us to additional costs and inherent risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to provide our services, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Our system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. In addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business and operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated. Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments, and our reputation with our customers may suffer if outages, system failures or delays in timely access to data occur in legacy information technology systems that support key business processes.We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems, including communications and data processing systems, in operating our business.  It is important that the data processed by these systems remains confidential, as it often includes competitive customer information, confidential customer transaction data, employee records, and key financial and operational results and statistics. Portions of our business utilize information systems that provide critical services to both our employees and our customers. Cyber incidents that impact the availability, reliability, speed, accuracy, or other proper functioning of these systems could have a significant impact on our operations. Certain of our software applications are utilized by third parties who provide certain outsourced administrative functions, which may increase the risk of a cybersecurity incident. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards as well as backup systems considered appropriate by management. However, it is not practicable to protect against the possibility of damage created by natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, cybersecurity attacks and similar events in every potential circumstance that may arise.We and the vehicle and equipment manufacturers in our FMS business rely on a small number of suppliers.We buy vehicles and related equipment from a relatively small number of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in our FMS business. Further, some of our vehicle manufacturers rely on a small concentration of suppliers for certain vehicle parts, components and equipment. A discrete event in a particular OEM's or supplier's industry or location, or adverse regional economic conditions impacting an OEM or supplier's ability to provide vehicles or a particular component could adversely impact our FMS business and profitability. In addition, our business and reputation could also be negatively impacted if any parts, components or equipment from one of our suppliers suffer from broad-based quality control issues or become the subject of a product recall and we are unable to obtain replacement parts from another supplier in a timely manner. We derive a significant portion of our SCS revenue from a relatively small number of customers.During 2013, sales to our top ten SCS customers representing all of the industry groups we service accounted for 40% of our SCS total revenue and 39% of our SCS operating revenue (revenue less subcontracted transportation). Additionally, approximately 29% of our global SCS revenue is from the automotive industry and is directly impacted by automotive vehicle production. The loss of any of these customers or a significant reduction in the services provided to any of these customers could impact our operations and adversely affect our SCS financial results. In 2010, we further diversified our customer base with the acquisition of Total Logistic Control, which is concentrated in the consumer packaged goods industry.  While we continue to focus our efforts on diversifying our customer base, we may not be successful in doing so in the short-term.Given the size of our relationships with larger SCS customers, they can exert downward pricing pressure and often require modifications to our standard commercial terms. While we believe our ongoing cost reduction initiatives have helped mitigate the effect of price reduction pressures from our SCS customers, there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or improve profitability in those accounts.11We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable from our SCS customers. If one or more of these customers were to become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us, we may incur significant write-offs of accounts receivable or incur lease or asset impairment charges that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, many of our customers operate in cyclical or seasonal industries, or operate in industries, including the food and beverage industry, that may be impacted by unanticipated weather, growing conditions (such as drought, insects or disease), natural disasters and other conditions over which we have no control. A downturn in our customers' business cycles or unanticipated events impacting their businesses could cause a reduction in freight volume shipped by those customers or a reduction in their need for our SCS services.We operate in a highly competitive industry and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other competitive factors.Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include the following:•our inability to obtain expected customer retention levels or sales growth targets;•we compete with many other transportation and logistics service providers, some of which have greater capital resources than we do;•customers may choose to provide the services we provide for themselves;•some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, and some of our smaller competitors may have lower cost structures than we do, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase prices; and•because cost of capital is a significant competitive factor, any increase in either the cost of our debt or equity as a result of reductions in our debt rating or stock price volatility could have a significant impact on our competitive position.Our profitability could be negatively impacted if the key assumptions and pricing structure prove to be invalid.Substantially all of our lease and maintenance services and our SCS services are provided under contractual arrangements with our customers. The pricing structure for our lease and contract maintenance business is based on certain assumptions regarding capital costs, maintenance expense over the life of the contract, residual values, productivity and the mix of fixed and variable costs, many of which are derived from historical data and trends. Under most of our SCS contracts, all or a portion of our pricing is based on certain assumptions regarding the scope of services, production volumes, operational efficiencies, the mix of fixed versus variable costs, productivity and other factors. If we are incorrect in our assumptions, or as a result of subsequent changes in our customers' business needs or operations or market forces that are outside of our control, these assumptions prove to be invalid, we could have lower margins than anticipated. Although certain of our SCS contracts provide for renegotiation upon a material change, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary price adjustments.We may face difficulties in attracting and retaining drivers and technicians and may face issues with our union employees.We hire drivers primarily for our SCS business segment. There is significant competition for qualified drivers in the transportation industry. Additionally, interventions and enforcement under the Compliance, Safety, Accountability (CSA) program may shrink the industry's pool of drivers as those drivers with unfavorable scores could leave the industry. As a result of driver shortages, we could be required to increase driver compensation, let trucks sit idle, utilize lower quality drivers or face difficulty meeting customer demands, all of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Similarly, we hire technicians in our FMS business segment to perform vehicle maintenance services on our lease, contract maintenance and rental fleets. Recently there has been a decrease in the overall supply of skilled maintenance technicians, particularly new technicians with qualifications from technical programs and schools, which could make it more difficult to attract and retain skilled technicians. We have 3,300 employees that are organized by labor unions whose wages and benefits are governed by 93 labor agreements that are renegotiated periodically. Some of the industries in which we currently engage have experienced a material work stoppage, slowdown or strike. Our business and operations could be impacted in the event of labor strikes or work stoppages involving our employees organized by labor unions in our FMS or SCS business segments. 12We operate in a highly regulated industry, and costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business.Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state and foreign governmental agencies. These agencies could institute new laws, rules or regulations or issue interpretation changes to existing regulations at any time. We have also seen an increase in proactive enforcement of existing regulations by some entities. Compliance with new laws, rules or regulations could substantially impair labor and equipment productivity and increase our costs. Conversely, our failure to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments. We are also subject to reputational risk and other detrimental business consequences associated with noncompliance, such as employees, customers, agents, suppliers or other persons using our supply chain or assets to commit illegal acts, including the use of company assets for terrorist activities, or a breach of data privacy laws, the ongoing development of which in the U.S. and other jurisdictions may require changes to our data security policies and procedures to comply with new standards. DOT and Other Regulatory Authorities.  The U.S. Department of Transportation and various state and federal agencies exercise broad powers over our motor carrier operations, safety and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste materials. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by the Department of Transportation, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Customs Service, the Environmental Protection Agency or other authorities, relating to the hours of service that our drivers may provide in any one-time period, homeland security, carbon emissions and reporting and other matters.Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration CSA Program.  In 2010, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) began implementation of the Compliance, Safety, Accountability program (CSA), a compliance and enforcement initiative partnering with State agencies designed to monitor and improve commercial vehicle motor safety. The CSA program includes a Safety Measurement System (SMS) that uses roadside inspections and violations to measure motor carriers and drivers and publishes scores related to these inspections and violations that compare the motor carriers and drivers against peers. The FMCSA established thresholds for each of seven different measurement areas that identify potential safety risks and result in direct intervention or enforcement action. Ryder's published scores are below the thresholds, but if performance changed, we could risk intervention that may create risk to our operating authority.Labor.  We maintain operations and employees in numerous states throughout the U.S., which are governed by federal and state labor and employment laws and regulations relating to compensation, benefits, healthcare and various workplace issues, all of which are applicable to our employees, and in some cases, independent contractors. State labor and employment rules vary from state to state and in some states, require us to meet much stricter standards than required in other states. Also, we are or may become subject to various class-action lawsuits related to wage and hour violations and improper pay in certain states. Unfavorable or unanticipated outcomes in any of the lawsuits could subject us to increased costs and impact our profitability.International.  We currently operate in Canada, Europe, Mexico and Asia, where we are subject to compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements of foreign jurisdictions, including local tax laws, and compliance with the Federal Corrupt Practices Act. Local laws and regulatory requirements may vary significantly from country to country. Customary levels of compliance with local regulations and the tolerance for noncompliance by regulatory authorities may also vary in different countries and geographical locations, and impact our ability to successfully implement our compliance and business initiatives in certain jurisdictions. Also, adherence to rigorous local laws and regulatory requirements may limit our ability to expand into certain international markets and result in residual liability for legal claims and tax disputes arising out of previously discontinued operations.13Environmental.  Regulations governing exhaust emissions that have been enacted over the last few years could adversely impact our business. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued regulations that required progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from certain diesel engines from 2007 through 2010. Emissions standards require reductions in the sulfur content of diesel fuel since June 2006. Also, the first phase of progressively stringent emissions standards relating to emissions after-treatment devices was introduced on newly-manufactured engines and vehicles utilizing engines built after January 1, 2007. The second phase, which required an additional after-treatment system, became effective after January 1, 2010. We face additional technology changes under EPA regulations that will go into effect in 2014 and 2017, which will require modifications to existing vehicle chassis and engine combinations. The 2014 and 2017 regulations will require reductions in carbon dioxide, which can only be reduced by improving fuel economy, and which requires compliance with different emissions standards for both engines and chassis, based on vocation. OEMs may be required to install additional engine componentry, additional aerodynamics on chassis and low-rolling resistance tires to comply with the upcoming regulations, which may result in a shorter useful tread life and increased operating costs for customers and us. Although customers may see reduced fuel consumption under the new standards, this could be offset by increased fuel costs on a per gallon basis. Each of these requirements could result in higher prices for vehicles, diesel engine fuel and vehicle maintenance, which are passed on to our customers, as well as higher maintenance costs and uncertainty as to reliability of the new engines, all of which could, over time, increase our costs and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The new technology may also impact the residual values of these vehicles when sold in the future. Future regulation of other environmental matters, including potential limits on carbon emissions under climate-change legislation, could also impact our business and profitability if enacted.Lease and Other Accounting Rules.  Demand for our full service lease product line is based in part on customers' decisions to lease rather than buy vehicles. A number of factors can impact whether customers decide to lease or buy vehicles, including economic benefits, accounting considerations, tax treatment, interest rates and operational flexibility. In 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued its latest proposed update to accounting standards that would involve a new approach to lease accounting that differs from current practice. Most notably, the new approach would eliminate off-balance sheet treatment of leases and require lessees to record leased assets on their balance sheets. If the proposed accounting standard becomes effective in its current form, it could be perceived to make leasing a less attractive option for some of our full service lease customers. Other changes in accounting rules, estimates, assumptions and accruals and changes in current financial, tax or regulatory requirements to which we are subject could also negatively impact our business.Volatility in assumptions and asset values related to our pension plans may reduce our profitability and adversely impact current funding levels.We historically sponsored a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the U.S., U.K. and other foreign locations. The retirement benefits under the defined benefit plans are frozen for non-grandfathered and certain non-union employees. Our major defined benefit plans are funded, with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio. The cash contributions made to our defined benefit plans are required to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by employee benefit and tax laws. The projected benefit obligation and assets of our global defined benefit plans as of December 31, 2013 were $2.1 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. The difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining pension expense and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Macroeconomic factors, as well as changes in investment returns and discount rates used to calculate pension expense and related assets and liabilities can be volatile and may have an unfavorable impact on our costs and funding requirements. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs and funding requirements through investment policies and plan contributions, there can be no assurance that we will succeed, and continued cost pressure could reduce the profitability of our business and negatively impact our cash flows.We also participate in ten U.S. multi-employer pension (MEP) plans that provide defined benefits to employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. In the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan. Our withdrawal liability for any MEP plan would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. Economic conditions have caused MEP plans to be significantly underfunded. If the financial condition of the MEP plans were to continue to deteriorate, participating employers could be subject to additional assessments.14We establish self-insurance reserves based on historical loss development factors, which could lead to adjustments in the future based on actual development experience.We retain a portion of the accident risk under vehicle liability and workers' compensation insurance programs. Our self-insurance accruals are based on actuarially estimated, undiscounted cost of claims, which includes claims incurred but not reported. While we believe that our estimation processes are well designed, every estimation process is inherently subject to limitations. Fluctuations in the frequency or severity of accidents make it difficult to precisely predict the ultimate cost of claims. The actual cost of claims can be different than the historical selected loss development factors because of safety performance, payment patterns and settlement patterns. For a detailed discussion on our accounting policies and assumptions relating to our self-insurance reserves, please see the section titled “Critical Accounting Estimates - Self-Insurance Accruals” in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Severe weather or other natural occurrences could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures in excess of available insurance coverage.Our operations may be affected by external factors such as severe weather and other natural occurrences, including floods, fires, hurricanes and earthquakes.  As a result, our facilities may be damaged, our workforce may be unavailable, fuel costs may rise and significant business interruptions could occur.  In addition, the performance of our vehicles could be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions.  Insurance to protect against loss of business and other related consequences resulting from these natural occurrences is subject to coverage limitations, depending on the nature of the risk insured. This insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our damages or damages to others and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. Even with insurance, if any natural occurrence leads to a catastrophic interruption of service, we may not be able to mitigate a significant interruption in operations.Our international operations subject us to operational and financial risks.We provide services outside of the U.S., which subjects our business to various risks, including changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxes; difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations and agents; foreign currency fluctuations and limitations on the repatriation of funds due to foreign currency controls; different liability standards; and intellectual property laws of countries that do not protect our rights in intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region.  Also, if we do not correctly anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions, we may not alter our business practices in time to avoid adverse effects.ITEM 1B