ITEM 1A.
    RISK FACTORS


 


    In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report,
    the following are some of the important factors that could
    affect our business.


 



    Our
    operating and financial results may fluctuate due to a number of
    factors, many of which are beyond our control.


 


    Our annual and quarterly operating and financial results are
    affected by a number of economic, regulatory and competitive
    factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    changes in economic conditions affecting the financial health of
    our customers and suppliers;




 



     
        •  

    
    changes in current financial, tax or regulatory requirements
    that could negatively impact the leasing market;




 



     
        •  

    
    changes in market conditions affecting the commercial rental
    market or the sale of used vehicles;




 



     
        •  

    
    our inability to obtain expected customer retention levels or
    sales growth targets;




 



     
        •  

    
    unanticipated interest rate and currency exchange rate
    fluctuations;




 



     
        •  

    
    labor strikes or work stoppages affecting us or our customers;




 



     
        •  

    
    sudden changes in fuel prices and fuel shortages;




 



     
        •  

    
    competition from vehicle manufacturers in our U.K. business
    operations; and




 



     
        •  

    
    changes in accounting rules, estimates, assumptions and accruals.






    
    11



Table of Contents



 



    We bear
    the residual risk on the value of our vehicles.


 


    We generally bear the residual risk on the value of our
    vehicles. Therefore, if the market for used vehicles declines,
    or our vehicles are not properly maintained, we may obtain lower
    sales proceeds upon the sale of used vehicles. Changes in
    residual values also impact the overall competitiveness of our
    full service lease product line, as estimated sales proceeds are
    a critical component of the overall price of the product.
    Additionally, sudden changes in supply and demand together with
    other market factors beyond our control vary from year to year
    and from vehicle to vehicle, making it difficult to accurately
    predict residual values used in calculating our depreciation
    expense. Although we have developed disciplines related to the
    management and maintenance of our vehicles that are designed to
    prevent these losses, there is no assurance that these practices
    will sufficiently reduce the residual risk. For a detailed
    discussion on our accounting policies and assumptions relating
    to depreciation and residual values, please see the section
    titled “Critical Accounting Estimates —
    Depreciation and Residual Value Guarantees” in
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations.


 



    Our
    profitability could be adversely impacted by our inability to
    maintain appropriate asset utilization rates through our asset
    management initiatives.


 


    We typically do not purchase vehicles for our full service lease
    product line until we have an executed contract with a customer.
    In our commercial rental product line, however, we do not
    purchase vehicles against specific customer contracts. Rather,
    we purchase vehicles and optimize the size and mix of the
    commercial rental fleet based upon our expectations of overall
    market demand for short-term and long-term rentals. As a result,
    we bear the risk for ensuring that we have the proper vehicles
    in the right condition and location to effectively capitalize on
    this market demand to drive the highest levels of utilization
    and revenue per unit. We employ a sales force and operations
    team on a full-time basis to manage and optimize this product
    line; however, their efforts may not be sufficient to overcome a
    significant change in market demand in the rental business or
    used vehicle market.


 



    We derive
    a significant portion of our SCS revenue from a small number of
    customers, many of which are in the automotive
    industry.


 


    During 2007, sales to our top ten SCS customers accounted for
    72% of our SCS total revenue and 60% of our SCS operating
    revenue (revenue less subcontracted transportation), with GM
    accounting for 42% of our SCS total revenue and 19% of our SCS
    operating revenue. The loss of any of these customers or a
    significant reduction in the services provided to any of these
    customers, particularly GM, could impact our domestic and
    international operations and adversely affect our SCS financial
    results. While we continue to focus our efforts on diversifying
    our customer base both outside and within the automotive
    industry, we may not be successful in doing so in the short-term.


 


    In addition, the revenue derived from our SCS customers is
    dependent in large part on their production and sales volumes,
    which are impacted by economic conditions and customer spending
    and preferences. Production volumes in the automotive industry
    are sensitive to consumer demand as well as employee and labor
    relations. Declines in sales volumes could result in production
    cutbacks and unplanned plant shutdowns. To the extent that the
    market share of any of our largest SCS customers deteriorates,
    or their sales or production volumes otherwise decline, our
    revenues and profitability could be adversely affected.


 


    We are also subject to credit risk associated with the
    concentration of our accounts receivable from our SCS customers.
    Certain of our automotive customers have or are currently facing
    financial difficulties. If one or more of these customers were
    to become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay
    for the services provided by us, our operating results and
    financial condition could be adversely affected.


 



    Our
    profitability could be negatively impacted by downward pricing
    pressure from certain of our SCS customers.


 


    Given the nature of our services and the competitive environment
    in which we operate, our largest SCS customers exert downward
    pricing pressure and often require modifications to our standard
    commercial terms.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    While we believe our ongoing cost reduction initiatives have
    helped mitigate the effect of price reduction pressures from our
    SCS customers, there is no assurance that we will be able to
    maintain or improve our current levels of profitability.


 


    Substantially all of our SCS services are provided under
    contractual arrangements with our customers. Under most of these
    contracts, all or a portion of our pricing is based on certain
    assumptions regarding the scope of services, production volumes,
    operational efficiencies, the mix of fixed versus variable
    costs, productivity and other factors. If, as a result of
    subsequent changes in our customers’ business needs or
    operations or market forces that are outside of our control,
    these assumptions prove to be invalid, we could have lower
    margins than anticipated. Although certain of our contracts
    provide for renegotiation upon a material change, there is no
    assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary
    price adjustments.


 



    We may
    face difficulties in attracting and retaining drivers.


 


    We hire drivers primarily for our DCC and SCS business segments.
    There is significant competition for qualified drivers in the
    transportation industry. As a result of driver shortages, we
    could be required to increase driver compensation, let trucks
    sit idle, utilize less experienced drivers or face difficulty
    meeting customer demands, all of which could adversely affect
    our growth and profitability.


 



    In order
    to serve our customers globally, we must continue to expand our
    international operations, which may result in additional
    risks.


 


    We are committed to meeting our customers’ global needs by
    continuing to grow our international operations in Canada,
    Europe, Asia and Latin America. Our international operations,
    particularly in Latin America and Asia, are subject to adverse
    developments in foreign political, governmental and economic
    conditions, varying competitive factors, foreign currency
    fluctuations, potential difficulties in identifying and
    retaining qualified managers and personnel, potential adverse
    tax consequences and difficulties in protecting intellectual
    property rights. These factors may have a significant effect on
    our ability to profitably grow our international operations or
    retain existing customers that require global expansion. In
    addition, entry into new international markets requires
    considerable management time as well as
    start-up
    expenses for market development, staffing and establishing
    office facilities before any significant revenue is generated.
    As a result, initial operations in a new market may operate at
    low margins or may be unprofitable.


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive industry and our business may
    suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward
    pricing pressures and other competitive factors.


 


    Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to
    maintain our current profitability. These factors include the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    we compete with many other transportation and logistics service
    providers, some of which have greater capital resources than we
    do;




 



     
        •  

    
    some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain
    business, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase
    prices;




 



     
        •  

    
    because cost of capital is a significant competitive factor, any
    increase in either our debt or equity cost of capital as a
    result of reductions in our debt rating or stock price
    volatility could have a significant impact on our competitive
    position; and




 



     
        •  

    
    advances in technology require increased investments to remain
    competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept
    higher prices to cover the cost of these investments.





 



    We
    operate in a highly regulated industry, and costs of compliance
    with, or liability for violation of, existing or future
    regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing
    business.


 


    Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state
    and foreign governmental entities. Specifically, the
    U.S. Department of Transportation and various state and
    federal agencies exercise broad



    
    13



Table of Contents




    powers over our motor carrier operations, safety, and the
    generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste
    materials. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive
    regulations imposed by the Department of Transportation, the
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental
    Protection Agency or other authorities, relating to the hours of
    service that our drivers may provide in any one-time period,
    security and other matters. Compliance with these regulations
    could substantially impair equipment productivity and increase
    our costs.


 


    New regulations governing exhaust emissions could adversely
    impact our business. The Environmental Protection Agency has
    issued regulations that require progressive reductions in
    exhaust emissions from certain diesel engines through 2007.
    Emissions standards require reductions in the sulfur content of
    diesel fuel beginning in June 2006 and the introduction of
    emissions after-treatment devices on newly-manufactured engines
    and vehicles utilizing engines built after January 1, 2007.
    In addition, each of these requirements could result in higher
    prices for tractors, diesel engines and fuel, which are passed
    on to our customers, as well as higher maintenance costs and
    uncertainty as to reliability of the new engines, all of which
    could, over time, increase our costs and adversely affect our
    business and results of operations. The new technology may also
    impact the residual values of these vehicles when sold in the
    future.


 



    Volatility
    in assumptions related to our pension plans may increase our
    pension expense and adversely impact current funding
    levels.


 


    We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in
    the U.S., U.K. and other foreign locations. We are required to
    make cash contributions to our defined benefit plans to the
    extent necessary to comply with minimum funding requirements
    imposed by employee benefit and tax laws. Our major defined
    benefit plans are funded, with trust assets invested in a
    diversified portfolio. The projected benefit obligation and
    assets of our global defined benefit plans as of
    December 31, 2007 were $1.52 billion. The difference
    between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the
    plans, is a significant factor in determining pension expense
    and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Changes in
    interest rates, mortality rates, investment returns and the
    market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our
    pension plans and cause volatility in the pension expense and
    future funding requirements. On January 5, 2007, our Board
    of Directors approved an amendment to freeze U.S. pension
    plans effective December 31, 2007 for current participants
    who did not meet certain grandfathering criteria. For a detailed
    discussion on our accounting policies and assumptions relating
    to our pension plans, please see the section titled
    “Critical Accounting Estimates — Pension
    Plans” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations.


 



    We
    establish self-insurance reserves based on historical loss
    development factors, which could lead to adjustments in the
    future based on actual development experience.


 


    We retain a portion of the accident risk under vehicle liability
    and workers’ compensation insurance programs. Our
    self-insurance accruals are based on actuarially estimated,
    undiscounted cost of claims, which includes claims incurred but
    not reported. While we believe that our estimation processes are
    well designed, every estimation process is inherently subject to
    limitations. Fluctuations in the frequency or severity of
    accidents make it difficult to precisely predict the ultimate
    cost of claims. In recent years, our development has been
    favorable compared to historical selected loss development
    factors because of improved safety performance, payment patterns
    and settlement patterns; however, there is no assurance we will
    continue to enjoy similar favorable development in the future.
    For a detailed discussion on our accounting policies and
    assumptions relating to our self-insurance reserves, please see
    the section titled “Critical Accounting
    Estimates — Self-Insurance Accruals” in
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations.


 



    ITEM 1B