ITEM 1A.
    RISK FACTORS


 


    In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report,
    the following are some of the important factors that could
    affect our business.


 



    Our
    operating and financial results may fluctuate due to a number of
    factors, many of which are beyond our control.


 


    Our annual and quarterly operating and financial results are
    affected by a number of economic, regulatory and competitive
    factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    changes in current financial, tax or regulatory requirements
    that could negatively impact the leasing market;




 



     
        •  

    
    our inability to obtain expected customer retention levels or
    sales growth targets;




 



     
        •  

    
    unanticipated interest rate and currency exchange rate
    fluctuations;




 



     
        •  

    
    labor strikes, work stoppages or driver shortages affecting us
    or our customers;




 



     
        •  

    
    sudden changes in fuel prices and fuel shortages;






    
    12



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    competition from vehicle manufacturers in our U.K. business
    operations; and




 



     
        •  

    
    changes in accounting rules, estimates, assumptions and accruals.





 



    Our
    business and operating results could be adversely affected by
    unfavorable economic and industry conditions.


 


    We have achieved annual operating revenue growth over the last
    few years in spite of a U.S. freight recession, in part due
    to a strong focus on increased contractual revenue growth and
    market expansion and acquisitions. During the fourth quarter of
    2008, however, our business, particularly our transactional
    commercial rental business, began to experience the effects of
    worsening macroeconomic conditions, further exacerbated by
    certain customer-specific challenges and significant disruptions
    in the financial and credit markets globally. As economic
    conditions worsened globally during late 2008, we began to see a
    significant decline in rental performance and utilization as
    well as slow used vehicle sales activity resulting from a
    worsening freight recession. Significant uncertainty around
    macroeconomic and industry conditions may impact the spending
    and financial position of our customers.


 


    Challenging economic and market conditions may also result in:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited
    visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective
    customers;




 



     
        •  

    
    increased competition for fewer projects and sales opportunities;




 



     
        •  

    
    pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross
    margin;




 



     
        •  

    
    higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue;




 



     
        •  

    
    increased risk of charges relating to asset impairments,
    including goodwill and other intangible assets;




 



     
        •  

    
    customer financial difficulty and increased risk of
    uncollectible accounts receivable;




 



     
        •  

    
    increased pension costs due to negative asset returns; and




 



     
        •  

    
    increased risk of declines in the residual values of our
    vehicles.





 


    We are uncertain as to how long current, unfavorable
    macroeconomic and industry conditions will persist and the
    magnitude of their effects on our business and results of
    operations. If these conditions persist or further weaken, our
    business and results of operations could be materially adversely
    affected.


 



    We are
    exposed to risks associated with the current financial
    crisis.


 


    Financial markets in the U.S. and abroad have experienced
    extreme disruption, including severely diminished liquidity and
    credit availability resulting in higher short-term borrowing
    costs and more stringent borrowing terms. Recessionary
    conditions in the global economy threaten to cause further
    tightening of the credit markets, more stringent lending
    standards and terms and higher volatility in interest rates.
    While these conditions and the current economic downturn have
    not impaired our ability to access credit markets, these
    conditions may adversely affect our business in the future,
    particularly if there is further deterioration in the world
    financial markets and major economies. The current credit
    conditions may also adversely affect the business of our
    customers. Difficulties in obtaining capital may lead to the
    inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing to
    fund their operations, resulting in lower demand for leasing
    services from Ryder. Furthermore, liquidity issues could impair
    the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their
    obligations to us.


 



    We bear
    the residual risk on the value of our vehicles.


 


    We generally bear the residual risk on the value of our
    vehicles. Therefore, if the market for used vehicles declines,
    or our vehicles are not properly maintained, we may obtain lower
    sales proceeds upon the sale of used vehicles. Changes in
    residual values also impact the overall competitiveness of our
    full service lease product line, as estimated sales proceeds are
    a critical component of the overall price of the product.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    Additionally, technology changes and sudden changes in supply
    and demand together with other market factors beyond our control
    vary from year to year and from vehicle to vehicle, making it
    difficult to accurately predict residual values used in
    calculating our depreciation expense. Although we have developed
    disciplines related to the management and maintenance of our
    vehicles that are designed to prevent these losses, there is no
    assurance that these practices will sufficiently reduce the
    residual risk. For a detailed discussion on our accounting
    policies and assumptions relating to depreciation and residual
    values, please see the section titled “Critical Accounting
    Estimates — Depreciation and Residual Value
    Guarantees” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations.


 



    Our
    profitability could be adversely impacted by our inability to
    maintain appropriate commercial rental utilization rates through
    our asset management initiatives.


 


    We typically do not purchase vehicles for our full service lease
    product line until we have an executed contract with a customer.
    In our commercial rental product line, however, we do not
    purchase vehicles against specific customer contracts. Rather,
    we purchase vehicles and optimize the size and mix of the
    commercial rental fleet based upon our expectations of overall
    market demand for short-term and long-term rentals. As a result,
    we bear the risk for ensuring that we have the proper vehicles
    in the right condition and location to effectively capitalize on
    this market demand to drive the highest levels of utilization
    and revenue per unit. We employ a sales force and operations
    team on a full-time basis to manage and optimize this product
    line; however, their efforts may not be sufficient to overcome a
    significant change in market demand in the rental business or
    used vehicle market.


 



    Continued
    decline in automotive volumes and instability in the automotive
    industry would adversely affect our results and increase our
    credit risk.


 


    Approximately 48% of our global SCS revenues is from the
    automotive industry and is directly impacted by automotive
    vehicle production. In addition, a number of our FMS customers,
    particularly transportation and trucking companies, provide
    services to the automotive industry. Automotive sales and
    production are impacted by general economic conditions, consumer
    preference, fuel prices, labor relations, the availability of
    credit and other factors. The North American automotive industry
    which generally includes General Motor Corporation (GM), Ford
    Motor Company and Cerberus Capital Management L.P. (Chrysler
    LLC) (the Detroit 3), has been weak for some time as a result of
    strong competition from foreign OEMs, high fixed costs
    particularly related to significant employee pension and
    healthcare benefit commitments, unsuccessful product launches
    and overcapacity. More recently both domestic and foreign
    automakers have reported significantly lower sales, and have
    responded by reducing production capacity both through plant
    shutdowns and a reduction in the number of production shifts.
    These plant shutdowns and shift eliminations have negatively
    impacted our results in 2008. Any prolonged plant shutdowns and
    additional shift eliminations can significantly reduce our
    operations with the OEMs as well as the operations of the
    automotive suppliers and transportation providers that we
    service in both our FMS and SCS businesses, and can have a
    negative impact on our future results.


 


    We are also subject to credit risk associated with the
    concentration of our accounts receivable from our automotive and
    automotive-related customers. In response to declining market
    share and significant losses, the Detroit 3 have announced
    significant restructuring actions. In addition, GM has sought
    and obtained assistance from the U.S. government. If these
    actions do not improve GM’s financial condition and
    liquidity position, they may not be able to fund their
    operations and may seek bankruptcy protection. If GM or our
    other automotive or automotive-related customers combined were
    to become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay
    for the services provided by us, we may incur significant
    write-offs of accounts receivable, incur impairment charges or
    require additional restructuring actions, all of which could
    have a material negative impact on our operating results and
    financial condition.


 



    We derive
    a significant portion of our SCS revenue from a relatively small
    number of customers.


 


    During 2008, sales to our top ten SCS customers representing all
    of the industry groups we service, accounted for 65% of our SCS
    total revenue and 61% of our SCS operating revenue (revenue less



    
    14



Table of Contents




    subcontracted transportation), with GM accounting for 17% of our
    SCS total and operating revenue. The loss of any of these
    customers or a significant reduction in the services provided to
    any of these customers, particularly GM, could impact our
    domestic and international operations and adversely affect our
    SCS financial results. While we continue to focus our efforts on
    diversifying our customer base we may not be successful in doing
    so in the short-term.


 


    In addition, our largest SCS customers can exert downward
    pricing pressure and often require modifications to our standard
    commercial terms. While we believe our ongoing cost reduction
    initiatives have helped mitigate the effect of price reduction
    pressures from our SCS customers, there is no assurance that we
    will be able to maintain or improve profitability in those
    accounts.


 



    Our
    profitability could be negatively impacted if the key
    assumptions and pricing structure of our SCS contracts prove to
    be invalid.


 


    Substantially all of our SCS services are provided under
    contractual arrangements with our customers. Under most of these
    contracts, all or a portion of our pricing is based on certain
    assumptions regarding the scope of services, production volumes,
    operational efficiencies, the mix of fixed versus variable
    costs, productivity and other factors. If, as a result of
    subsequent changes in our customers’ business needs or
    operations or market forces that are outside of our control,
    these assumptions prove to be invalid, we could have lower
    margins than anticipated. Although certain of our contracts
    provide for renegotiation upon a material change, there is no
    assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary
    price adjustments.


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive industry and our business may
    suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward
    pricing pressures and other competitive factors.


 


    Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to
    maintain our current profitability. These factors include the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    we compete with many other transportation and logistics service
    providers, some of which have greater capital resources than we
    do;




 



     
        •  

    
    some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain
    business, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase
    prices;




 



     
        •  

    
    because cost of capital is a significant competitive factor, any
    increase in either our debt or equity cost of capital as a
    result of reductions in our debt rating or stock price
    volatility could have a significant impact on our competitive
    position; and




 



     
        •  

    
    advances in technology require increased investments to remain
    competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept
    higher prices to cover the cost of these investments.





 



    We
    operate in a highly regulated industry, and costs of compliance
    with, or liability for violation of, existing or future
    regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing
    business.


 


    Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state
    and foreign governmental entities. Specifically, the
    U.S. Department of Transportation and various state and
    federal agencies exercise broad powers over our motor carrier
    operations, safety, and the generation, handling, storage,
    treatment and disposal of waste materials. We may also become
    subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by the
    Department of Transportation, the Occupational Safety and Health
    Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency or other
    authorities, relating to the hours of service that our drivers
    may provide in any one-time period, security and other matters.
    Compliance with these regulations could substantially impair
    equipment productivity and increase our costs.


 


    New regulations governing exhaust emissions could adversely
    impact our business. The Environmental Protection Agency has
    issued regulations that require progressive reductions in
    exhaust emissions from certain diesel engines through 2007.
    Emissions standards require reductions in the sulfur content of
    diesel fuel since June 2006 and the introduction of emissions
    after-treatment devices on newly-manufactured engines and



    
    15



Table of Contents




    vehicles utilizing engines built after January 1, 2007. In
    addition, each of these requirements could result in higher
    prices for tractors, diesel engines and fuel, which are passed
    on to our customers, as well as higher maintenance costs and
    uncertainty as to reliability of the new engines, all of which
    could, over time, increase our costs and adversely affect our
    business and results of operations. The new technology may also
    impact the residual values of these vehicles when sold in the
    future.


 



    Volatility
    in assumptions and asset values related to our pension plans may
    reduce our profitability and adversely impact current funding
    levels.


 


    We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in
    the U.S., U.K. and other foreign locations. Our major defined
    benefit plans are funded, with trust assets invested in a
    diversified portfolio. The cash contributions made to our
    defined benefit plans are required to comply with minimum
    funding requirements imposed by employee benefit and tax laws.
    The projected benefit obligation and assets of our global
    defined benefit plans as of December 31, 2008 were
    $1.48 billion and $976 million, respectively. The
    difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded
    status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining
    pension expense and the ongoing funding requirements of those
    plans. Macroeconomic factors, as well as changes in investment
    returns and discount rates used to calculate pension expense and
    related assets and liabilities can be volatile and may have an
    unfavorable impact on our costs and funding requirements.
    Although we have actively sought to control increases in these
    costs and funding requirements, there can be no assurance that
    we will succeed, and continued upward pressure could reduce the
    profitability of our business and negatively impact our cash
    flows.


 



    We
    establish self-insurance reserves based on historical loss
    development factors, which could lead to adjustments in the
    future based on actual development experience.


 


    We retain a portion of the accident risk under vehicle liability
    and workers’ compensation insurance programs. Our
    self-insurance accruals are based on actuarially estimated,
    undiscounted cost of claims, which includes claims incurred but
    not reported. While we believe that our estimation processes are
    well designed, every estimation process is inherently subject to
    limitations. Fluctuations in the frequency or severity of
    accidents make it difficult to precisely predict the ultimate
    cost of claims. In recent years, our development has been
    favorable compared to historical selected loss development
    factors because of improved safety performance, payment patterns
    and settlement patterns; however, there is no assurance we will
    continue to enjoy similar favorable development in the future.
    For a detailed discussion on our accounting policies and
    assumptions relating to our self-insurance reserves, please see
    the section titled “Critical Accounting
    Estimates — Self-Insurance Accruals” in
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations.


 



    ITEM 1B