ITEM 1A.
    RISK FACTORS


 


    In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report,
    the following are some of the important factors that could
    affect our business.


 



    Our
    operating and financial results may fluctuate due to a number of
    factors, many of which are beyond our control.


 


    Our annual and quarterly operating and financial results are
    affected by a number of economic, regulatory and competitive
    factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    changes in current financial, tax or regulatory requirements
    that could negatively impact the leasing market;




 



     
        •  

    
    our inability to obtain expected customer retention levels or
    sales growth targets;




 



     
        •  

    
    our inability to integrate acquisitions as projected, achieve
    planned synergies or retain customers of companies we acquire;




 



     
        •  

    
    unanticipated interest rate and currency exchange rate
    fluctuations;




 



     
        •  

    
    labor strikes, work stoppages, driver shortages;




 



     
        •  

    
    higher costs to procure drivers and high driver turnover rates
    affecting our customers;




 



     
        •  

    
    sudden changes in fuel prices and fuel shortages;




 



     
        •  

    
    relationships with and competition from vehicle manufacturers;




 



     
        •  

    
    changes in accounting rules, estimates, assumptions and
    accruals, including changes in lease accounting that could
    impact customers’ leasing decisions;




 



     
        •  

    
    increases in healthcare costs resulting in higher insurance
    costs;




 



     
        •  

    
    outages, system failures or delays in timely access to data in
    legacy information technology systems that support key business
    processes; and




 



     
        •  

    
    reputational risk and other detrimental business consequences in
    the U.S. and internationally associated with employees,
    customers, agents, suppliers or other persons using our supply
    chain or assets to commit illegal acts, including the use of
    company assets for terrorist activities.





 



    Changes
    in economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the
    profitability of our business.


 


    A decline in economic activity can adversely affect demand for
    any of our businesses, thus reducing our revenue and earnings.
    The freight recession caused our revenues to decline as FMS
    customers ran fewer miles with their fleets and SCS customers
    had lower freight volumes. The most recent decline in economic





    
    12



Table of Contents





    conditions has caused some of our full service lease customers
    to downsize their existing fleets and/or extend instead of renew
    their leases. Our profitability has been impacted by higher
    maintenance costs on an aging fleet. Our customers remain
    cautious about entering into long-term leases. Challenging
    economic and market conditions may also result in:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    increased competition for fewer projects and sales opportunities;




 



     
        •  

    
    pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross
    margin;




 



     
        •  

    
    customer financial difficulty and increased risk of
    uncollectible accounts receivable;




 



     
        •  

    
    diminished liquidity and credit availability resulting in higher
    short-term borrowing costs and more stringent borrowing terms;




 



     
        •  

    
    difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited
    visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective
    customers;




 



     
        •  

    
    fleet downsizing to match demand which could adversely impact
    profitability;




 



     
        •  

    
    higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue;




 



     
        •  

    
    increased risk of charges relating to asset impairments,
    including goodwill and other intangible assets; and




 



     
        •  

    
    increased risk of declines in the residual values of our
    vehicles.





 


    In 2010, we began to see signs of a slow, uneven economic
    recovery. Our commercial rental and used vehicle sales
    performance improved significantly from the prior year and we
    saw an increase in the miles run per vehicle. However, we are
    uncertain whether the recent improvements in miles run and
    demand for commercial rental will continue and whether we will
    be able to maintain our current commercial rental rates, which
    increased this year due to customer demand. Uncertainty and lack
    of customer confidence around macroeconomic and industry
    conditions may continue to impact the spending and financial
    position of our customers.


 



    We bear
    the residual risk on the value of our vehicles.


 


    We generally bear the residual risk on the value of our
    vehicles. Therefore, if the market for used vehicles declines,
    or our vehicles are not properly maintained, we may obtain lower
    sales proceeds upon the sale of used vehicles. Changes in
    residual values also impact the overall competitiveness of our
    full service lease product line, as estimated sales proceeds are
    a critical component of the overall price of the product.
    Additionally, technology changes and sudden changes in supply
    and demand together with other market factors beyond our control
    vary from year to year and from vehicle to vehicle, making it
    difficult to accurately predict residual values used in
    calculating our depreciation expense. Although we have developed
    disciplines related to the management and maintenance of our
    vehicles that are designed to prevent these losses, there is no
    assurance that these practices will sufficiently reduce the
    residual risk. For a detailed discussion on our accounting
    policies and assumptions relating to depreciation and residual
    values, please see the section titled “Critical Accounting
    Estimates — Depreciation and Residual Value
    Guarantees” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations.


 



    Our
    profitability could be adversely impacted by our inability to
    maintain appropriate commercial rental utilization rates through
    our asset management initiatives.


 


    We typically do not purchase vehicles for our full service lease
    product line until we have an executed contract with a customer.
    In our commercial rental product line, however, we do not
    purchase vehicles against specific customer contracts. Rather,
    we purchase vehicles and optimize the size and mix of the
    commercial rental fleet based upon our expectations of overall
    market demand. As a result, we bear the risk for ensuring that
    we have the proper vehicles in the right condition and location
    to effectively capitalize on market demand in order to drive the
    highest levels of utilization and revenue per unit. We employ a
    sales force and operations





    
    13



Table of Contents





    team on a full-time basis to manage and optimize this product
    line; however, their efforts may not be sufficient to overcome a
    significant change in market demand in the rental business or
    used vehicle market.


 



    We derive
    a significant portion of our SCS revenue from a relatively small
    number of customers.


 


    During 2010, sales to our top ten SCS customers representing all
    of the industry groups we service, accounted for 65% of our SCS
    total revenue and 64% of our SCS operating revenue (revenue less
    subcontracted transportation). Additionally, approximately 43%
    of our global SCS revenue is from the automotive industry and is
    directly impacted by automotive vehicle production. The loss of
    any of these customers or a significant reduction in the
    services provided to any of these customers could impact our
    domestic and international operations and adversely affect our
    SCS financial results. In addition, our largest SCS customers
    can exert downward pricing pressure and often require
    modifications to our standard commercial terms. While we believe
    our ongoing cost reduction initiatives have helped mitigate the
    effect of price reduction pressures from our SCS customers,
    there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or
    improve profitability in those accounts. In 2010, we further
    diversified our customer base with the acquisition of TLC, which
    is concentrated in the consumer packaged goods industry. While
    we continue to focus our efforts on diversifying our customer
    base we may not be successful in doing so in the short-term.


 



    Our
    profitability could be negatively impacted if the key
    assumptions and pricing structure of our SCS contracts prove to
    be invalid.


 


    Substantially all of our SCS services are provided under
    contractual arrangements with our customers. Under most of these
    contracts, all or a portion of our pricing is based on certain
    assumptions regarding the scope of services, production volumes,
    operational efficiencies, the mix of fixed versus variable
    costs, productivity and other factors. If, as a result of
    subsequent changes in our customers’ business needs or
    operations or market forces that are outside of our control,
    these assumptions prove to be invalid, we could have lower
    margins than anticipated. Although certain of our contracts
    provide for renegotiation upon a material change, there is no
    assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary
    price adjustments.


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive industry and our business may
    suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward
    pricing pressures and other competitive factors.


 


    Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to
    maintain our current profitability. These factors include the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    advances in technology require increased investments to remain
    competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept
    higher prices to cover the cost of these investments;




 



     
        •  

    
    we compete with many other transportation and logistics service
    providers, some of which have greater capital resources than we
    do;




 



     
        •  

    
    some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain
    business, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase
    prices; and




 



     
        •  

    
    because cost of capital is a significant competitive factor, any
    increase in either our debt or equity cost of capital as a
    result of reductions in our debt rating or stock price
    volatility could have a significant impact on our competitive
    position.





 



    We
    operate in a highly regulated industry, and costs of compliance
    with, or liability for violation of, existing or future
    regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing
    business.


 


    Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state
    and foreign governmental entities. Specifically, the
    U.S. Department of Transportation and various state and
    federal agencies exercise broad powers over our motor carrier
    operations, safety, and the generation, handling, storage,
    treatment and disposal of waste materials. We may also become
    subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by the
    Department of Transportation, the Occupational Safety and Health
    Administration, the Department of Homeland Security and
    U.S. Customs Service, the Environmental Protection Agency
    or other authorities,





    
    14



Table of Contents





    relating to the hours of service that our drivers may provide in
    any one-time period, homeland security, carbon emissions and
    reporting and other matters. Compliance with these regulations
    could substantially impair labor and equipment productivity and
    increase our costs. Recent changes in and ongoing development of
    data privacy laws may result in increased exposure relating to
    our data security costs in order to comply with new standards.


 


    With respect to our international operations, we are subject to
    compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements in
    foreign jurisdictions, including local tax laws, and compliance
    with the Federal Corrupt Practices Act. Adherence to rigorous
    local laws and regulatory requirements may limit our ability to
    expand into certain international markets and result in residual
    liability for legal claims and tax disputes arising out of
    previously discontinued operations.


 


    Regulations governing exhaust emissions that have been enacted
    over the last few years could adversely impact our business. The
    Environmental Protection Agency issued regulations that required
    progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from certain diesel
    engines from 2007 through 2010. Emissions standards require
    reductions in the sulfur content of diesel fuel since June 2006.
    Also, the first phase of progressively stringent emissions
    standards relating to emissions after-treatment devices was
    introduced on newly-manufactured engines and vehicles utilizing
    engines built after January 1, 2007. The second phase,
    which required an additional after-treatment system, became
    effective after January 1, 2010. Each of these requirements
    could result in higher prices for vehicles, diesel engines and
    fuel, which are passed on to our customers, as well as higher
    maintenance costs and uncertainty as to reliability of the new
    engines, all of which could, over time, increase our costs and
    adversely affect our business and results of operations. The new
    technology may also impact the residual values of these vehicles
    when sold in the future.


 



    Volatility
    in assumptions and asset values related to our pension plans may
    reduce our profitability and adversely impact current funding
    levels.


 


    We historically sponsored a number of defined benefit plans for
    employees in the U.S., U.K. and other foreign locations. In
    recent years, we made amendments to defined benefit plans which
    freeze the retirement benefits for non-grandfathered and certain
    non-union employees. Our major defined benefit plans are funded,
    with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio. The cash
    contributions made to our defined benefit plans are required to
    comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by employee
    benefit and tax laws. The projected benefit obligation and
    assets of our global defined benefit plans as of
    December 31, 2010 were $1.74 billion and
    $1.43 billion, respectively. The difference between plan
    obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a
    significant factor in determining pension expense and the
    ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Macroeconomic
    factors, as well as changes in investment returns and discount
    rates used to calculate pension expense and related assets and
    liabilities can be volatile and may have an unfavorable impact
    on our costs and funding requirements. We also participate in
    twelve U.S. multi-employer pension (MEP) plans that provide
    defined benefits to employees covered by collective bargaining
    agreements. In the event that we withdraw from participation in
    one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make
    an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan. Our withdrawal
    liability for any MEP plan would depend on the extent of the
    plan’s funding of vested benefits. Economic conditions have
    caused MEP plans to be significantly underfunded. If the
    financial condition of the MEP plans were to continue to
    deteriorate, participating employers could be subject to
    additional assessments. Although we have actively sought to
    control increases in these costs and funding requirements, there
    can be no assurance that we will succeed, and continued cost
    pressure could reduce the profitability of our business and
    negatively impact our cash flows.


 



    We
    establish self-insurance reserves based on historical loss
    development factors, which could lead to adjustments in the
    future based on actual development experience.


 


    We retain a portion of the accident risk under vehicle liability
    and workers’ compensation insurance programs. Our
    self-insurance accruals are based on actuarially estimated,
    undiscounted cost of claims, which includes claims incurred but
    not reported. While we believe that our estimation processes are
    well designed, every estimation process is inherently subject to
    limitations. Fluctuations in the frequency or severity of
    accidents make it difficult to precisely predict the ultimate
    cost of claims. The actual cost of claims can be





    
    15



Table of Contents





    different than the historical selected loss development factors
    because of safety performance, payment patterns and settlement
    patterns. For a detailed discussion on our accounting policies
    and assumptions relating to our self-insurance reserves, please
    see the section titled “Critical Accounting
    Estimates — Self-Insurance Accruals” in
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations.


 



    We may
    face difficulties in attracting and retaining drivers.


 


    We hire drivers primarily for our DCC and SCS business segments.
    There is significant competition for qualified drivers in the
    transportation industry. As a result of driver shortages, we
    could be required to increase driver compensation, let trucks
    sit idle, utilize lower quality drivers or face difficulty
    meeting customer demands, all of which could adversely affect
    our growth and profitability.


 




    ITEM 1B