ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


     
In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report,
the following are some of the important factors that could
affect our business.



Our operating and financial results may fluctuate due to a
number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.


     
Our annual and quarterly operating and financial results are
affected by a number of economic, regulatory and competitive
factors, including:







    
    
    



     
    •
    
    changes in current financial, tax or regulatory requirements
    that could negatively impact the leasing market;



     



     
    •
    
    changes in market conditions affecting the commercial rental
    market or the sale of used vehicles;



     



     
    •
    
    our inability to obtain expected customer retention levels or
    sales growth targets;



     



     
    •
    
    unanticipated interest rate and currency exchange rate
    fluctuations;



     



     
    •
    
    labor strikes or work stoppages affecting us or our customers;



     



     
    •
    
    sudden changes in fuel prices and fuel shortages;



     



     
    •
    
    competition from vehicle manufacturers in our U.K. business
    operations; and



     



     
    •
    
    changes in accounting rules, estimates, assumptions and accruals.





Our failure to successfully implement growth initiatives in
our FMS business segment may negatively impact our ability to
increase our leasing revenues.


     
We have undertaken certain initiatives in our FMS operations
with the intention of increasing organic revenue growth in our
contractual business, better servicing our customers’
business needs, improving asset utilization and realizing cost
savings in the future. The initiatives include changing the
structure of our operational and sales teams, realigning our
business processes and reorganizing our management. There is no
assurance that these initiatives will be successful or that we
will not have to undertake additional initiatives in order to
achieve our growth targets.



We bear the residual risk on the value of our vehicles.


     
We generally bear the residual risk on the value of our
vehicles. Therefore, if the market for used vehicles declines,
or our vehicles are not properly maintained, we may experience
lower gains or suffer losses on the sale of the vehicles.
Changes in residual values also impact the overall
competitiveness of our full service lease product line, as
estimated sales proceeds are a critical component of the overall
price of the product. Additionally, sudden changes in supply and
demand together with other market factors beyond our control
vary from year to year and from vehicle to vehicle, making it
difficult to accurately predict residual values used in
calculating our depreciation expense. Although we have developed
disciplines related to the management and maintenance of our
vehicles that are designed to prevent these losses, there is no
assurance that these practices will sufficiently reduce the
residual risk. For a detailed discussion on our accounting
policies and assumptions relating to depreciation and residual
values, please see the section titled “Critical Accounting
Estimates — Depreciation and Residual Value
Guarantees” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.


12



Table of Contents


Our profitability could be adversely impacted by our
inability to maintain appropriate asset utilization rates
through our asset management initiatives.


     
We typically do not purchase vehicles for our full service lease
product line until we have an executed contract with a customer.
In our commercial rental product line, however, we do not
purchase vehicles against specific customer contracts. Rather,
we purchase vehicles and optimize the size and mix of the
commercial rental fleet based upon our expectations of overall
market demand for short- and long-term rentals. As a result, we
bear the risk for ensuring that we have the proper vehicles in
the right condition and location to effectively capitalize on
this market demand to drive the highest levels of utilization
and revenue per unit. We employ a sales force and operations
team on a full-time basis to manage and optimize this product
line; however, their efforts may not be sufficient to overcome a
significant change in market demand in the rental business or
used vehicle market.



We derive a significant portion of our SCS revenue from a
small number of customers, many of which are in the automotive
industry.


     
During 2006, sales to our top ten SCS customers accounted for
69% of our SCS total revenue and 59% of our SCS operating
revenue (revenue less subcontracted transportation), with GM
accounting for 40% of our SCS total revenue and 18% of our SCS
operating revenue. The loss of any of these customers or a
significant reduction in the services provided to any of these
customers, particularly GM, could impact our domestic and
international operations and adversely affect our SCS financial
results. While we continue to focus our efforts on diversifying
our customer base both outside and within the automotive
industry, we may not be successful in doing so in the short term.


     
In addition, the revenue derived from our SCS customers is
dependent in large part on their production and sales volumes,
which are impacted by economic conditions and customer spending
and preferences. Production volumes in the automotive industry
are sensitive to consumer demand as well as employee and labor
relations. Declines in sales volumes could result in production
cutbacks and unplanned plant shutdowns. To the extent that the
market share of any of our largest SCS customers deteriorates,
or their sales or production volumes otherwise decline, our
revenues and profitability could be adversely affected.


     
We are also subject to credit risk associated with the
concentration of our accounts receivable from our SCS customers.
Certain of our automotive customers have or are currently facing
financial difficulties. If one or more of these customers were
to become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay
for the services provided by us, our operating results and
financial condition could be adversely affected.



Our profitability could be negatively impacted by downward
pricing pressure from certain of our SCS customers.


     
Given the nature of our services and the competitive environment
in which we operate, our largest SCS customers exert downward
pricing pressure and often require modifications to our standard
commercial terms. While we believe our ongoing cost reduction
initiatives have helped mitigate the effect of price reduction
pressures from our SCS customers, there is no assurance that we
will be able to maintain or improve our current levels of
profitability.


     
Substantially all of our SCS services are provided under
contractual arrangements with our customers. Under most of these
contracts, all or a portion of our pricing is based on certain
assumptions regarding the scope of services, production volumes,
operational efficiencies, the mix of fixed versus variable
costs, productivity and other factors. If, as a result of
subsequent changes in our customers’ business needs or
operations or market forces that are outside of our control,
these assumptions prove to be invalid, we could have lower
margins than anticipated. Although certain of our contracts
provide for renegotiation upon a material change, there is no
assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary
price adjustments.


13



Table of Contents


We may face difficulties in attracting and retaining
drivers.


     
We hire drivers primarily for our DCC and SCS business segments.
There is significant competition for qualified drivers in the
transportation industry. As a result of driver shortages, we
could be required to increase driver compensation, let trucks
sit idle, utilize lower quality drivers or face difficulty
meeting customer demands, all of which could adversely affect
our growth and profitability.



In order to serve our customers globally, we must continue to
expand our international operations, which may result in
additional risks.


     
We are committed to meeting our customers’ global needs by
continuing to grow our international operations in Canada,
Europe, Asia and Latin America. Our international operations,
particularly in Latin America and Asia, are subject to
adverse developments in foreign political, governmental and
economic conditions, varying competitive factors, foreign
currency fluctuations, potential difficulties in identifying and
retaining qualified managers and personnel, potential adverse
tax consequences and difficulties in protecting intellectual
property rights. These factors may have a significant effect on
our ability to profitably grow our international operations or
retain existing customers that require global expansion. In
addition, entry into new international markets requires
considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for
market development, staffing and establishing office facilities
before any significant revenue is generated. As a result,
initial operations in a new market may operate at low margins or
may be unprofitable.



We operate in a highly competitive industry and our business
may suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential
downward pricing pressures and other competitive factors.


     
Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to
maintain our current profitability. These factors include the
following:







    
    
    



     
    •
    
    we compete with many other transportation and logistics service
    providers, some of which have greater capital resources than we
    do;



     



     
    •
    
    some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain
    business, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase
    prices;



     



     
    •
    
    because cost of capital is a significant competitive factor, any
    increase in either our debt or equity cost of capital as a
    result of reductions in our debt rating or stock price
    volatility could have a significant impact on our competitive
    position;



     



     
    •
    
    advances in technology require increased investments to remain
    competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept
    higher prices to cover the cost of these investments; and



     



     
    •
    
    competition from logistics and freight brokerage companies that
    do not operate trucking fleets may adversely affect our customer
    relationships and prices.





We operate in a highly regulated industry, and costs of
compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or
future regulations could significantly increase our costs of
doing business.


     
Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state
and foreign governmental entities. Specifically, the U.S.
Department of Transportation and various state and federal
agencies exercise broad powers over our motor carrier
operations, safety, and the generation, handling, storage,
treatment and disposal of waste materials. We may also become
subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by the
Department of Transportation, the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency or other
authorities, relating to the hours of service that our drivers
may provide in any one-time period, security and other matters.
Compliance with these regulations could substantially impair
equipment productivity and increase our costs.


     
New regulations governing exhaust emissions could adversely
impact our business. The Environmental Protection Agency has
issued regulations that require progressive reductions in
exhaust emissions from


14



Table of Contents


certain diesel engines through 2007. Emissions standards require
reductions in the sulfur content of diesel fuel beginning in
June 2006 and the introduction of emissions after-treatment
devices on newly-manufactured engines and vehicles utilizing
engines built after January 1, 2007. The level and timing
of market acceptance of new engine technology could impact
timing of sales in 2007. In addition, each of these requirements
could result in higher prices for tractors, diesel engines and
fuel, which are passed on to our customers, as well as higher
maintenance costs and uncertainty as to reliability of the new
engines, all of which could, over time, increase our costs and
adversely affect our business and results of operations. The new
technology may also impact the residual values of these vehicles
when sold in the future.



Volatility in assumptions related to our pension plans may
increase our pension expense and adversely impact current
funding levels.


     
We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in
the U.S., U.K. and other foreign locations. We are required to
make cash contributions to our defined benefit plans to the
extent necessary to comply with minimum funding requirements
imposed by employee benefit and tax laws. Our major defined
benefit plans are funded, with trust assets invested in a
diversified portfolio. The projected benefit obligation and
assets of our global defined benefit plans as of
December 31, 2006 was $1.53 billion and
$1.42 billion, respectively. The difference between plan
obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a
significant factor in determining pension expense and the
ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Changes in interest
rates, mortality rates, investments returns and the market value
of plan assets can affect the funded status of our pension plans
and cause volatility in the pension expense and future funding
requirements. For a detailed discussion on our accounting
policies and assumptions relating to our pension plans, please
see the section titled “Critical Accounting
Estimates — Pension Plans” in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.









ITEM 1B