Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    RAI and its subsidiaries operate with certain known risks and
    uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on their
    operations, some of which are beyond their control. The
    following is a description of the most significant risks and
    uncertainties:


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries could be subject to
    substantial liabilities from cases related to cigarette products
    as well as to smokeless tobacco products.


 


    RJR Tobacco, Conwood and their affiliates, including RAI, and
    indemnitees, have been named in a number of tobacco-related
    legal actions, proceedings or claims seeking damages in amounts
    ranging into the hundreds of millions or even billions of
    dollars. As of February 2, 2007, 1,271 cigarette-related
    cases were pending against RJR Tobacco or its affiliates,
    including RAI, and its indemnitees, including B&W: 1,263 in
    the United States; four in Puerto Rico; three in Canada and one
    in Israel. Of the 1,263 total cases, 34 cases are pending
    against B&W that are not also pending against RJR Tobacco,
    and 942 have been consolidated for trial on some common related
    issues in West Virginia. As of February 2, 2007, Conwood
    was a defendant in eight cases in West Virginia and one in
    Florida in which plaintiffs are alleging, among other claims,
    that they sustained personal injuries as a result of using
    Conwood’s smokeless tobacco products.


 


    In addition, as of February 2, 2007, 2,624 cases filed by
    individual flight attendants alleging injuries as a result of
    exposure to ETS, or secondhand smoke, in aircraft cabins were
    pending in Florida against RJR Tobacco or its affiliates or
    indemnitees. Punitive damages are not recoverable in these
    cases, and the majority of the secondhand smoke cases do not
    allege injuries of the same magnitude as alleged in other
    tobacco-related litigation.


 


    It is likely that similar legal actions, proceedings and claims
    arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development,
    advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes
    will continue to be filed against RJR Tobacco or its affiliates
    and indemnitees and other tobacco companies for the foreseeable
    future. During the fourth quarter of 2006, process in 21
    cigarette-related cases was served against RJR Tobacco or its
    affiliates or indemnitees, compared with four such cases in the
    fourth quarter of 2005. Victories by plaintiffs in highly
    publicized cases against RJR Tobacco and other tobacco companies
    regarding the health effects of smoking may stimulate further
    claims. A material increase in the number of pending claims
    could significantly increase defense costs and have a material
    adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and
    financial condition of RJR Tobacco and, consequently, of RAI. In
    addition, adverse outcomes in pending cases could have adverse
    effects on the ability of RJR Tobacco and its indemnitees,
    including B&W, to prevail in smoking and health litigation.


 


    Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the billions of
    dollars, are specifically pled in a number of these pending
    cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. An
    unfavorable resolution of certain of these actions could have a
    material adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows
    and financial condition of RJR Tobacco and, consequently, of
    RAI. Adverse outcomes in these cases, individually or in the
    aggregate, also could have a significant adverse effect on the
    ability of RJR Tobacco and RAI to continue to operate.


 


    If plaintiffs in any of the actions to which Conwood is subject
    were to prevail, the effect of any judgment or settlement could
    have a material adverse effect on RAI’s consolidated
    financial results in the particular reporting period in which
    any such litigation is resolved. In addition, similar litigation
    and claims relating to Conwood’s smokeless tobacco products
    may continue to be filed in the future and, depending on the
    size of any resulting judgment or settlement, such judgment or
    settlement could have a material adverse effect on RAI’s
    consolidated financial position. An increase in the number of
    pending claims, in addition to the risks posed as to outcome,
    could increase Conwood’s costs of litigating and
    administering claims.


 


    In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in
    the United States of America, referred to as GAAP, RAI, RJR
    Tobacco and Conwood, as applicable, record any loss related to
    tobacco litigation at such time as an unfavorable outcome
    becomes probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. RJR
    Tobacco recorded less than $1 million related to the
    judgment in the Thompson v. B&W individual case
    in the fourth quarter of 2006, to be paid in 2007.


 


    RAI’s management continues to conclude that the loss of any
    particular pending smoking and health tobacco litigation claim
    against RJR Tobacco or its affiliates or indemnitees, including
    B&W, or the loss of any particular



    
    12



Table of Contents




    claim concerning the use of smokeless tobacco against Conwood,
    when viewed on an individual basis, is not probable or
    estimable. Other than with respect to the Thompson case,
    discussed above, no liability for pending smoking and health
    tobacco or smokeless tobacco litigation was recorded in
    RAI’s consolidated balance sheet as of December 31,
    2006. Notwithstanding the foregoing, RAI could be subject to
    significant tobacco-related liabilities in the future. In
    addition, RJR has liabilities totaling $94 million that
    were recorded in 1999 in connection with certain indemnification
    claims unrelated to smoking and health asserted by JTI against
    RJR and RJR Tobacco, relating to the activities of Northern
    Brands International, Inc., an inactive, indirect subsidiary of
    RAI involved in the international tobacco business that was sold
    to JTI in 1999, and related litigation.


 


    For a more complete description of the litigation involving RAI
    and its operating subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco and
    Conwood, see Item 3.


 


    Individual cigarette-related cases may increase as a result
    of the Florida Supreme Court’s ruling in Engle v. R.
    J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.


 


    In July 2000, a jury in the Florida state court case
    Engle v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., referred to as
    Engle, rendered a punitive damages verdict in favor of
    the “Florida class” of approximately
    $145 billion, with approximately $36.3 billion and
    $17.6 billion being assigned to RJR Tobacco and B&W,
    respectively. RJR Tobacco, B&W and the other defendants
    appealed this verdict. On May 21, 2003, Florida’s
    Third District Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s
    final judgment and remanded the case to the Miami-Dade County
    Circuit Court with instructions to decertify the class. On
    October 23, 2003, the plaintiffs asked the Florida Supreme
    Court to review the case.


 


    The Florida Supreme Court issued its decision on July 6,
    2006. The court affirmed the appellate court’s dismissal of
    the punitive damages awards against RJR Tobacco and B&W and
    decertified, on a going-forward basis, a Florida-wide class
    action on behalf of smokers claiming illnesses caused by
    addiction to cigarettes. The court preserved a number of
    classwide findings from the Engle trial, including that
    cigarettes can cause certain diseases, that nicotine is
    addictive and that defendants placed defective and unreasonably
    dangerous cigarettes on the market, and authorized class members
    to avail themselves of those findings in individual lawsuits,
    provided they commence those lawsuits within one year of the
    date the court’s decision becomes final. The court
    specified that the class is confined to those Florida residents
    who developed smoking-related illnesses that
    “manifested” themselves on or before November 21,
    1996.


 


    RJR Tobacco and the other defendants in Engle filed a
    rehearing motion arguing, among other things, that the findings
    from the Engle trial are not sufficiently specific to
    serve as the basis for further proceedings and that the Florida
    Supreme Court’s application of the class action rule denies
    defendants due process. The plaintiffs also filed a rehearing
    motion arguing that some smokers who became sick after
    November 21, 1996, and who are therefore not class members
    should nevertheless have the statute of limitations tolled since
    they may have refrained from filing suit earlier in the mistaken
    belief that they were Engle class members. On
    December 21, 2006 the Florida Supreme Court issued a
    revised opinion, in which it set aside the jury’s findings
    of a conspiracy to misrepresent and clarified that the future
    plaintiffs could rely on the Engle jury’s findings
    on express warranty. The court issued its mandate on
    January 11, 2007, which begins the one-year period for
    individual class members to file lawsuits. RAI anticipates that
    it is likely that individual case filings in Florida will
    increase as a result of the Engle case. In addition to
    possible adverse effects of the outcomes in these cases,
    individually or in the aggregate, an increase in these cases
    will result in increased legal expenses and other litigation and
    related costs which could have an adverse effect on the results
    of operations and cash flows of RJR Tobacco and, consequently,
    of RAI.


 


    RJR Tobacco could be subject to additional, substantial
    marketing restrictions, and related compliance costs, as a
    result of the order issued in a case brought by the
    U.S. Department of Justice.


 


    On September 22, 1999, the U.S. Department of Justice
    brought an action against RJR Tobacco, B&W and other tobacco
    companies in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Columbia. The government initially sought to recover funds
    expended by the federal government in providing health care to
    smokers who have developed diseases and injuries alleged to be
    smoking-related. In addition, the government sought, pursuant to
    the civil provisions of RICO, disgorgement of profits the
    government contends were earned as a consequence of a RICO
    racketeering “enterprise.” In September 2000, the
    court dismissed the government’s claims asserted under the
    Medical Care Recovery Act as well as those under the Medicare
    Secondary Payer provisions of the Social Security



    
    13



Table of Contents




    Act, but did not dismiss the RICO claims. In February 2005, the
    U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled
    that disgorgement is not an available remedy in this case. The
    government’s petition for rehearing was denied in April
    2005, and its petition for writ of certiorari with the
    U.S. Supreme Court was denied in October 2005. The bench
    (non-jury) trial began in September 2004, and closing arguments
    concluded June 10, 2005.


 


    On August 17, 2006, the court found certain defendants
    liable for the RICO claims, but did not impose any direct
    financial penalties. The court instead enjoined the defendants
    from committing future racketeering acts, participating in
    certain trade organizations, making misrepresentations
    concerning smoking and health and youth marketing, and using
    certain brand descriptors such as “low tar,”
    “light,” “ultra light,” “mild” and
    “natural.” The court also ordered defendants to issue
    “corrective communications” on five subjects,
    including smoking and health and addiction, and to comply with
    further undertakings, including maintaining web sites of
    historical corporate documents and disseminating certain
    marketing information on a confidential basis to the government.
    In addition, the court placed restrictions on the ability of the
    defendants to dispose of certain assets for use in the United
    States unless the transferee agrees to abide by the terms of the
    court’s order. The order also requires the defendants to
    reimburse the U.S. Department of Justice its taxable costs
    incurred in connection with this case.


 


    Certain defendants, including RJR Tobacco, filed notices of
    appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
    Columbia on September 11, 2006. The government filed its
    notice of appeal on October 16, 2006. In addition, the
    defendants, including RJR Tobacco, filed joint motions asking
    the district court to clarify and to stay its order pending
    defendants’ appeal. On September 28, 2006, the
    district court denied defendants’ motion to stay. On
    September 29, 2006, the defendants, including RJR Tobacco,
    filed a motion asking the court of appeals to stay the district
    court’s order pending defendants’ appeal. The court
    granted the motion on October 31, 2006. On
    November 28, 2006, the court of appeals stayed the appeals
    pending the trial court’s ruling on the defendants’
    motion for clarification.


 


    The stay of the district court’s order suspends the
    enforcement of the order pending the outcome of defendants’
    appeal. RJR Tobacco does not know the timing of an appellate
    decision or, if the order is affirmed, the compliance deadlines
    that will be imposed. If the order is affirmed without
    modification, then RJR Tobacco believes that certain provisions
    of the order (such as the ban on certain brand style descriptors
    and the corrective advertising requirements) would have adverse
    business effects on the marketing of RJR Tobacco’s current
    product portfolio and that such effects could be material. Also,
    if the order is affirmed, then RJR Tobacco would incur costs in
    connection with complying with the order (such as the costs of
    changing its current packaging to conform to the ban on certain
    brand descriptors and the costs of corrective communications).
    Given the uncertainty over the timing and substance of an
    appellate decision, RJR Tobacco currently is not able to
    estimate reasonably the costs of such compliance. Moreover, if
    the order were ultimately affirmed and RJR Tobacco were to fail
    to comply with the order on a timely basis, then RJR Tobacco
    could be subject to substantial monetary fines or penalties.


 


    An adverse outcome in this case could have a material adverse
    effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial
    condition of RJR Tobacco and, consequently, of RAI.


 


    RJR Tobacco could be subject to substantial liabilities from
    lawsuits based on claims that smokers were misled through its
    marketing of “light,” “ultra light” and
    “low-tar” cigarettes.


 


    Class-action
    suits have been filed in a number of states against individual
    cigarette manufacturers and their parent corporations, alleging
    that the use of the terms “lights” and “ultra
    lights” constitutes unfair and deceptive trade practices.
    As of February 2, 2007, 12 such suits were pending against
    RJR Tobacco or its affiliates, including RAI, and indemnitees,
    including B&W, in state or federal courts in Florida,
    Illinois, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, New York and
    Washington.


 


    A “lights”
    class-action
    case is pending in Madison County, Illinois against RJR
    Tobacco’s competitor, Philip Morris, Inc. Trial of the case
    against Philip Morris, Price v. Philip Morris, Inc.,
    formerly known as Miles v. Philip Morris, Inc.,
    began in January 2003. In March 2003, the trial judge entered
    judgment against Philip Morris in the amount of
    $7.1 billion in compensatory damages and $3 billion in
    punitive damages to the State of Illinois. Based on Illinois
    law, the bond required to stay execution of the judgment was set
    initially at $12 billion. Because of the difficulty of
    posting a bond of that magnitude, Philip Morris pursued various
    avenues of relief from the $12 billion bond requirement. In
    April 2003, the trial judge reduced the amount of the bond. The
    plaintiffs appealed, and in July



    
    14



Table of Contents




    2003, the appeals court ordered the trial judge to reinstate the
    original bond. In September 2003, the Illinois Supreme Court
    ordered that the reduced bond be reinstated and agreed to hear
    Philip Morris’ appeal without need for intermediate
    appellate court review. On December 15, 2005, the Illinois
    Supreme Court reversed the lower state court’s decision and
    sent the case back to the lower court with instructions to
    dismiss the case. On May 8, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a
    motion to stay mandate until final disposition of their petition
    for certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court. The motion was
    granted on May 19, 2006. The plaintiffs’ petition for
    certiorari was denied on November 27, 2006. On
    December 15, 2006, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the
    Circuit Court’s judgment and remanded the case with
    instructions to dismiss. On December 18, 2006, the
    defendants filed a motion to dismiss and for entry of final
    judgment, which was granted by the trial court. Judgment was
    entered dismissing the case with prejudice the same day. The
    plaintiffs filed a motion to vacate
    and/or
    withhold judgment in the Circuit Court on January 17, 2007.


 


    Although RJR Tobacco is not a defendant in the Price
    case, it is a defendant in a similar
    class-action
    case, Turner v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., also
    brought in Madison County, Illinois. The class certified in this
    case consists of persons who purchased certain brands of
    “light” cigarettes manufactured and sold by RJR
    Tobacco during a specified time period. B&W is a defendant
    in a similar
    class-action
    case, Howard v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco
    Corporation, also brought in Madison County, Illinois. The
    Turner and Howard cases have been stayed pending a
    resolution of the Price case.


 


    Schwab [McLaughlin] v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., a
    nation-wide “lights”
    class-action,
    was filed on May 11, 2004, in the U.S. District Court
    for the Eastern District of New York, against RJR Tobacco and
    B&W, as well as other tobacco manufacturers. On
    September 25, 2006, the court, among other things, granted
    class certification and set a trial date of January 22,
    2007. On October 6, 2006, the defendants, including RJR
    Tobacco, filed a motion requesting the U.S. Court of
    Appeals for the Second Circuit to review the class certification
    decision and to stay the case pending that review. On
    November 16, 2006, the Second Circuit granted the
    defendants’ motions to stay the district court proceedings
    and for review of the class certification ruling. Briefing is
    complete. Oral argument has not been scheduled.


 


    In the event RJR Tobacco and its affiliates and indemnitees lose
    the Turner, Howard or Schwab cases, or one or more of the
    other pending “lights”
    class-action
    suits, RJR Tobacco could face bonding difficulties similar to
    the difficulties faced by Philip Morris in Price
    depending upon the amount of damages ordered, if any. This
    result could have a material adverse effect on the results of
    operations, cash flows and financial condition of RJR Tobacco
    and, consequently, of RAI.


 


    RJR Tobacco could be subject to substantial liabilities from
    tobacco-related antitrust lawsuits.


 


    RJR Tobacco and its indemnitees, including B&W, and certain
    of their subsidiaries are defendants in multiple actions
    alleging violations of federal and state antitrust laws,
    including allegations that the major U.S. cigarette
    manufacturers, including RJR Tobacco and B&W, conspired to
    fix cigarette prices. An adverse outcome in any of these cases
    could have a material adverse effect on the results of
    operations, cash flows and financial condition of RJR Tobacco
    and, consequently, of RAI.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s retail market share has declined in recent
    years and is expected to continue to decline for the medium
    term; any continuation in the decline beyond the medium term
    could further adversely affect the results of operations, cash
    flows and financial condition of RJR Tobacco and, consequently,
    of RAI.


 


    According to data from IRI, the combined share of RJR Tobacco
    and B&W of the U.S. cigarette retail market declined to
    29.78% in 2006 from 30.28% in 2005, continuing a trend in effect
    for several years. This data does not reflect revisions made by
    IRI to its market share data in April 2006 to better reflect
    industry dynamics. The use of revised methodology by IRI would
    not have had a material impact on the foregoing percentages. You
    should not rely on the foregoing market share data as being a
    precise measurement of actual market share because IRI bases its
    reporting on sampling and, in addition, is not able to
    effectively track the volume of all deep-discount brands, gray
    market imports and sales through alternative channels.
    Accordingly, the retail share of market of RJR Tobacco as
    reported above may overstate its actual market share.


 


    Although RJR Tobacco expects this declining market share trend
    to continue for the medium term, at the beginning of 2007, RJR
    Tobacco implemented a revised brand portfolio marketing
    strategy, discussed in Item 1, which RJR Tobacco expects,
    within the next four years, will result in growth in total RJR
    Tobacco market share.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    Lost market share, however, is difficult to regain. If this new
    marketing strategy is unsuccessful and the decline in RJR
    Tobacco’s market share continues beyond the medium term,
    this could adversely affect the results of operations, cash
    flows and financial condition of RJR Tobacco and, consequently,
    of RAI.


 


    RJR Tobacco has substantial payment obligations under the MSA
    and other litigation settlement agreements, which materially
    adversely affect its ability to compete against manufacturers of
    deep-discount cigarettes that are not subject to these
    obligations.


 


    In November 1998, the major U.S. cigarette manufacturers,
    including RJR Tobacco and B&W, entered into the MSA with
    46 states and other U.S. territories to settle the
    asserted and unasserted health-care cost recovery claims and
    certain other claims of those states and territories. RJR
    Tobacco, B&W and the other major U.S. tobacco
    manufacturers previously had settled similar claims brought by
    four other states.


 


    The aggregate cash payments made by RJR Tobacco under the MSA
    and other state settlement agreements were $2.6 billion,
    $2.7 billion and $2.0 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. RJR Tobacco estimates its payments will be
    approximately $2.6 billion in 2007, and will be
    approximately $2.8 billion thereafter, subject to certain
    adjustments. For a more complete description of the MSA and
    other state settlement agreements, see Item 3.


 


    The MSA and other state settlement agreements have materially
    adversely affected RJR Tobacco’s shipment volumes. The
    payments under these agreements also make it difficult for RJR
    Tobacco to compete with certain manufacturers of deep-discount
    cigarettes. RAI believes deep-discount brands made by small
    manufacturers have proliferated and have a combined market share
    of approximately 13% of U.S. industry unit sales. The
    manufacturers of deep-discount brands are either subsequent
    participating manufacturers or non-participating manufacturers,
    referred to as NPMs, to the MSA. As such, they have lower
    payment obligations than do the original participating
    manufacturers, allowing them to price their products lower than
    the original participating manufacturers. This pricing has
    resulted in higher levels of discounting and promotional support
    by RJR Tobacco as part of its efforts to defend its existing
    brands, attract adult smokers of competitive brands and launch
    new brands. RAI believes that these settlement obligations may
    materially adversely affect the results of operations, cash
    flows and financial condition of RJR Tobacco and, consequently,
    of RAI. The degree of the adverse impact will depend, among
    other things, on the rate of decline in U.S. cigarette
    sales in the premium and value categories, RJR Tobacco’s
    share of the domestic premium and value cigarette categories,
    and the effect of any cost advantage of manufacturers not
    subject to the MSA and other state settlement agreements.


 


    The MSA includes an adjustment, referred to as an NPM
    adjustment, that potentially reduces RJR Tobacco’s and
    other participating manufacturers’ annual payment
    obligations. As of February 2, 2007, RJR Tobacco was in
    litigation with more than 37 of the settling states as to
    whether RJR Tobacco is entitled to an NPM adjustment for 2003.
    If RJR Tobacco is unsuccessful in disputing that it is entitled
    to deduct its share of the 2003, or any subsequent, NPM
    adjustment from its MSA payments, RJR Tobacco would be obligated
    to continue paying the full amounts of its projected MSA
    payments notwithstanding that its market share, and potentially
    its revenues, were decreasing as a result of increased
    competition from NPMs. Even if RJR Tobacco is successful in
    deducting its share of the NPM adjustment from its 2003, and any
    subsequent, MSA payments, it could incur substantial litigation
    costs to establish its entitlement to the deduction,
    particularly if one or more of the settling states that have
    filed legal proceedings prevail in their claim that the courts
    of the individual states are the proper forum for resolving the
    dispute. During 2006, proceedings were initiated and prosecuted
    with respect to an NPM adjustment for 2004. The independent
    auditor’s settlement payment calculations pertaining to the
    2004 market year determined that the participating manufacturers
    again suffered a market share loss sufficient to trigger an NPM
    adjustment for that year. For more information on the NPM
    adjustment proceedings, see Item 3.


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries have substantial payment
    obligations under the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act.


 


    On October 22, 2004, the President signed the Fair and
    Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004, referred to as FETRA,
    eliminating the U.S. government’s tobacco production
    controls and price support program. The buyout of tobacco quota
    holders provided for in FETRA is funded by a direct quarterly
    assessment on every tobacco product manufacturer and importer,
    on a market-share basis measured on volume to which federal
    excise tax is applied. The aggregate cost of the buyout to the
    industry is approximately $9.9 billion, including
    approximately $9.6 billion



    
    16



Table of Contents




    payable to quota tobacco holders and growers through industry
    assessments over ten years and approximately $290 million
    for the liquidation of quota tobacco stock.


 


    The MSA provided for the establishment of a $5.15 billion
    trust fund to be divided among the states that produce cigarette
    tobacco to compensate tobacco growers and quota holders for any
    negative effects that the MSA might have on them — MSA
    participants’ payment obligations with respect to this fund
    are referred to as “Phase II” obligations. As a
    result of the tobacco buyout legislation, the MSA Phase II
    obligations established in 1999 will be continued as scheduled
    through the end of 2010, but will be offset against the tobacco
    quota buyout obligations. RAI’s operating
    subsidiaries’ annual expense under FETRA, excluding the
    tobacco stock liquidation assessment, is estimated to be in the
    range of $230 million to $280 million. Since the
    inception of FETRA through December 31, 2006, RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries have incurred $72 million of
    cumulative net assessments from quota tobacco stock liquidation.
    RAI’s operating subsidiaries estimate that their overall
    share of the buyout will approximate $2.4 billion to
    $2.9 billion prior to the deduction of permitted offsets
    under the MSA.


 


    FETRA’s substantial buyout payment obligations could
    negatively affect the profits and cash flows of RJR Tobacco and
    RAI’s other operating subsidiaries and could adversely
    affect sales if price increases are required to offset the
    obligations.


 


    The assumption of certain of B&W’s historical and
    future liabilities has exposed RJR Tobacco and its subsidiaries
    to significant additional potential liabilities associated with
    the cigarette and tobacco industry.


 


    In connection with the B&W business combination, RJR Tobacco
    agreed to indemnify B&W and its affiliates for
    B&W’s historic and future liabilities related to the
    contributed business, including all tobacco-related litigation
    and all post-closing liabilities under the MSA and other state
    settlement agreements with respect to B&W’s
    U.S. cigarette and tobacco business. These liabilities
    could expose RJR Tobacco to material losses, which would
    materially adversely affect the results of operations, cash
    flows and financial condition of RJR Tobacco and, consequently,
    of RAI. As of February 2, 2007, of the 1,263
    cigarette-related cases pending against RJR Tobacco or its
    affiliates or indemnitees, 34 cases were pending against B&W
    that are not also pending against RJR Tobacco.


 


    RJR Tobacco is dependent on the U.S. cigarette business,
    which it expects to continue to decline.


 


    The international rights to substantially all of RJR
    Tobacco’s brands were sold in 1999 to JTI. In connection
    with this sale, RJR Tobacco also agreed that, prior to its use
    or license outside the United States of any trademarks or other
    intellectual property relating to its manufacture or sale of
    tobacco products, RJR Tobacco would first negotiate in good
    faith with JTI with respect to JTI’s acquisition or
    licensing of such trademarks or intellectual property. In
    addition, in connection with the B&W business combination in
    2004, RAI entered into a non-competition agreement with BAT
    under which RAI’s operating subsidiaries generally are
    prohibited, subject to certain exceptions, from manufacturing
    and marketing certain tobacco products outside the United States
    until July 2009. As a result of the foregoing, RJR Tobacco
    is dependent on the U.S. cigarette market. As a result of
    price increases, restrictions on advertising and promotions,
    funding by U.S. manufacturers, including RJR Tobacco, of
    smoking prevention campaigns, increases in regulation and excise
    taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of
    smoking, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other
    factors, U.S. cigarette consumption has generally been
    declining, and it is expected to continue to decline, which
    could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows and
    financial condition of RJR Tobacco and, consequently, of RAI.
    U.S. cigarette shipments as tracked by MSAi, report demand
    declining since 1987. Shipments declined 2.4% in 2006, 3.4% in
    2005 and 1.8% in 2004. Total cigarette industry shipments in
    2006 were 372.5 billion cigarettes.


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries are subject to significant
    limitations on advertising and marketing tobacco products that
    could harm the value of their existing brands or their ability
    to launch new brands.


 


    In the United States, television and radio advertisements of
    cigarettes have been prohibited since 1971, and television and
    radio advertisements of smokeless tobacco products have been
    prohibited since 1986. Under the MSA, certain of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco, cannot use
    billboard advertising, cartoon characters, sponsorship of
    certain events, non-tobacco merchandise bearing their brand
    names and various other advertising and marketing techniques. In
    addition, the MSA prohibits targeting of youth in advertising,
    promotion or marketing of tobacco products, including the
    smokeless tobacco products of RJR Tobacco. Conwood is not a
    participant in the MSA. Although these restrictions were
    intended to ensure that tobacco advertising was not aimed



    
    17



Table of Contents




    at young people, some of the restrictions also may limit the
    ability of RAI’s operating subsidiaries to communicate with
    adult smokers. For example, RAI’s operating subsidiaries
    only advertise their cigarettes in magazines in which the vast
    majority of readers are adults 18 years of age or older.
    Additional restrictions may be imposed legislatively or agreed
    to in the future. Recent proposals have included limiting
    tobacco advertising to
    black-and-white,
    text-only advertisements. These limitations may make it
    difficult to maintain the value of existing brands. Moreover,
    these limitations could significantly impair the ability of
    RAI’s operating subsidiaries to launch new premium brands.
    Also, as discussed in greater detail above, RJR Tobacco will be
    subject to additional marketing restrictions if the recent
    decision by the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Columbia in the case brought by the U.S. Department of
    Justice is not reversed on appeal.


 


    The U.S. cigarette industry is subject to substantial
    and increasing regulation and taxation, which has a negative
    effect on sales volume and profitability. In addition,
    Conwood’s tobacco products are subject to excise taxes and
    to many restrictions and regulations similar to the ones to
    which the tobacco products of RAI’s other operating
    subsidiaries are subject, which may have a negative effect on
    sales volume and profitability of Conwood.


 


    A wide variety of federal, state and local laws limit the
    advertising, sale and use of cigarettes, and these laws have
    proliferated in recent years. For example, many local laws
    prohibit smoking in restaurants and other public places. Private
    businesses also have adopted regulations that prohibit or
    restrict, or are intended to discourage, smoking. This trend has
    had, and is likely to continue to have, a material adverse
    effect on the sales, volumes, operating income and cash flows of
    RJR Tobacco and, consequently, of RAI.


 


    Cigarettes are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United
    States. The federal excise tax per pack of 20 cigarettes is
    $0.39. All states and the District of Columbia currently impose
    excise taxes at levels ranging from $0.07 per pack in South
    Carolina to $2.575 per pack in New Jersey. On
    December 31, 2006, the weighted average state cigarette
    excise tax per pack, calculated on a
    12-month
    rolling average basis, was approximately $0.799. In 2006, four
    states passed excise tax per pack increases, and ballot
    initiatives to increase the cigarette excise tax per pack were
    approved in two other states. Certain city and county
    governments, such as New York and Chicago, also impose
    substantial excise taxes on cigarettes sold in those
    jurisdictions. In 2007, increased excise taxes are likely to
    result in declines in overall sales volume and shifts by
    consumers to less expensive brands. Both of these results could
    have a material adverse effect on the results of operations,
    cash flows and financial condition of RJR Tobacco and,
    consequently, of RAI.


 


    A federal excise tax was imposed on smokeless tobacco products
    in 1986 and is currently $0.195 per pound for chewing
    tobacco, and $0.585 per pound for snuff. The federal tax on
    small cigars, defined as those weighing three pounds or less per
    thousand, is $1.828 per thousand. Large cigars are taxed at
    a rate of 20.719% of the manufacturer’s price, with a cap
    of $48.75 per thousand.


 


    In 1996, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, referred to
    as the FDA, published regulations that would have severely
    restricted cigarette advertising and promotion, and limited the
    manner in which tobacco products could be sold. On
    March 21, 2000, the U.S. Supreme Court held that
    Congress did not give the FDA authority to regulate tobacco
    products under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and,
    accordingly, the FDA’s assertion of jurisdiction over
    tobacco products was impermissible under that act. Since the
    Supreme Court decision, various proposals have been made for
    federal legislation to regulate tobacco products, including
    smokeless tobacco products. A presidential commission appointed
    by former President Clinton issued a final report on
    May 14, 2001, recommending that the FDA be given authority
    by Congress to regulate the manufacture, sale, distribution and
    labeling of tobacco products to protect public health. Other
    proposals for the federal regulation of tobacco products have
    related to, among other things, additional warning notices, the
    disallowance of advertising and promotion expenses as deductions
    under federal tax law, a ban or further restriction of all
    advertising and promotion and increased regulation of the
    manufacturing and marketing of tobacco products by new or
    existing federal agencies.


 


    In February 2007, proposed legislation was introduced in the
    U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate that
    would give the FDA broad regulatory authority over tobacco
    products. The proposals would grant the FDA authority to impose
    product standards (including standards relating to, among other
    things, nicotine yields and smoke constituents) and would
    reinstate the FDA’s 1996 proposed regulations that would
    have restricted



    
    18



Table of Contents




    marketing. The proposed legislation also would govern modified
    risk products and would impose new and larger warning labels on
    tobacco products.


 


    Over the years, various state and local governments have
    continued to regulate tobacco products, including smokeless
    tobacco products. These regulations relate to, among other
    things, the imposition of significantly higher taxes, increases
    in the minimum age to purchase tobacco products, sampling and
    advertising bans or restrictions, ingredient and constituent
    disclosure requirements and significant tobacco control media
    campaigns. Additional state and local legislative and regulatory
    actions will likely be considered in the future, including,
    among other things, restrictions on the use of flavorings.


 


    Additional federal or state regulation relating to the
    manufacture, sale, distribution, advertising, labeling,
    mandatory ingredients disclosure and nicotine yield information
    disclosure of tobacco products could reduce sales, increase
    costs and have a material adverse effect on the business of the
    operating subsidiaries of RAI. Extensive and inconsistent
    regulation by multiple states could prove to be particularly
    disruptive to the business of RJR Tobacco. These factors could
    have a material adverse effect on RAI’s results of
    operations, cash flows and financial condition.


 


    Various state governments have adopted or are considering
    adopting legislation establishing fire safety standards for
    cigarettes. Compliance with this legislation could be
    burdensome. On December 31, 2003, the New York State
    Office of Fire Prevention and Control issued a final standard
    with accompanying regulations that requires all cigarettes
    offered for sale in New York State after June 28, 2004, to
    achieve specified test results when placed on ten layers of
    filter paper in controlled laboratory conditions. The cigarettes
    that RAI’s operating companies sell in New York State
    comply with this standard. In 2005, California and Vermont, and
    in 2006, Illinois, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, each enacted
    fire-safe legislation of its own, adopting the same testing
    standard set forth in the OFPC regulations described above. This
    requirement took effect in Vermont on May 1, 2006, in
    California on January 1, 2007, and will take effect in New
    Hampshire on October 1, 2007, and in Illinois and
    Massachusetts on January 1, 2008. Similar legislation is
    being considered in a number of other states. Varying standards
    from state to state could have an adverse effect on the business
    or results of operations of RJR Tobacco.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s and Conwood’s volumes, market share
    and profitability may be adversely affected by competitive
    actions and pricing pressures in the marketplace.


 


    The tobacco industry is highly competitive. Among the major
    manufacturers, brands primarily compete on such elements as
    product quality, price, brand recognition, brand imagery and
    packaging. Substantial marketing support, merchandising display,
    competitive pricing and other financial incentives generally are
    required to maintain or improve a brand’s market position
    or introduce a new brand.


 


    Increased selling prices from higher cigarette taxes and
    settlement costs have resulted in increased competitive
    discounting and the proliferation of deep-discount brands.


 


    In addition to the competition Conwood faces from its largest
    competitor, U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company, RJR Tobacco’s
    largest competitor in the cigarette market, Philip Morris USA
    Inc., has recently begun test marketing smokeless tobacco
    products. Further, other companies may test or enter the
    smokeless tobacco marketplace. Increased competition, from new
    entrants or existing market participants, could introduce
    pricing pressure or decrease Conwood’s market share, either
    of which could adversely affect Conwood’s profitability and
    revenues.


 


    Although RAI believes Conwood’s business has benefited in
    recent years from the increased popularity of price-value brands
    compared to premium priced brands, if this trend deprives
    Conwood’s premium brands of market share, Conwood’s
    profitability and revenues from those brands could decrease.
    Even if consumers shift from Conwood’s premium brands to
    its own price-value brands, Conwood’s revenues and
    profitability could be adversely affected due to the higher
    sales prices and higher profit margins on Conwood’s premium
    brands as compared with its price-value brands.


 


    Failure to successfully integrate Conwood into RAI’s
    corporate organization could prevent RAI from attaining the
    anticipated benefits of the Conwood acquisition.


 


    Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Conwood acquisition
    will depend in part upon the integration of Conwood into
    RAI’s corporate organization, expected to be completed by
    the end of 2007. Integration of a



    
    19



Table of Contents




    substantial business is a challenging, time-consuming and costly
    process. It is possible that the acquisition itself or the
    integration process could result in the loss of the management
    of Conwood or other key employees, the disruption of
    Conwood’s business or inconsistencies in standards,
    controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect its
    ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers and
    employees. In addition, successful integration of Conwood will
    require the dedication of significant management resources that
    may temporarily detract attention from RAI’s and
    Conwood’s
    day-to-day
    business. If management is not able to integrate the
    organizations, operations and systems of Conwood and RAI in a
    timely and efficient manner, the anticipated benefits of the
    Conwood acquisition may not be realized fully.


 


    If RJR Tobacco is not able to develop, produce or
    commercialize new products and technologies required by
    regulatory changes or changes in adult consumer preferences,
    sales and profitability could be adversely affected.


 


    Consumer health concerns and changes in regulations are likely
    to require RJR Tobacco to introduce new products or make
    substantial changes to existing products. Similarly, RAI
    believes that there may be increasing pressure from public
    health authorities and consumers to develop a conventional
    cigarette or an alternative cigarette that provides a
    demonstrable reduced risk of adverse health effects. RJR Tobacco
    may not be able to develop a potentially reduced risk product
    that is broadly acceptable to adult consumers in a
    cost-effective manner, or at all. Moreover, it may be difficult
    for RJR Tobacco to effectively promote such a product in any
    event. RJR Tobacco believes that the order in the
    U.S. Department of Justice case, described above,
    might (unless the order is reversed on appeal) limit RJR
    Tobacco’s ability to market effectively any potentially
    reduced risk product it may develop. Further, additional
    marketing restrictions could be imposed legislatively or
    judicially in the future that could adversely affect RJR
    Tobacco’s ability to market effectively any potentially
    reduced risk product it may develop. The costs associated with
    developing new products and technologies, as well as the
    inability to develop and effectively market acceptable products
    in response to competitive conditions or regulatory
    requirements, may have a material adverse effect on RAI’s
    results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.


 


    RJR Tobacco now depends on third-party suppliers for its
    tobacco packaging materials requirements; if the supply of
    tobacco packaging materials from the suppliers is interrupted,
    or the quality of the packaging declines, RJR Tobacco’s
    packaging costs and sales could be negatively affected.


 


    On May 2, 2005, RJR Tobacco and RJR Packaging, LLC sold the
    assets and business of RJR Packaging, LLC to five packaging
    companies. In connection with this sale, RJR Tobacco entered
    into agreements with four of the purchasers, pursuant to which
    those companies supply RJR Tobacco with certain of its tobacco
    packaging materials requirements.


 


    As a result, RJR Tobacco is now dependent upon third parties for
    its packaging requirements. Consequently, the risks of an
    interruption in the supply of packaging materials to RJR
    Tobacco, or a decline in the quality of such packaging
    materials, have increased. A decline in the quality of packaging
    materials could negatively affect sales. If the supply of
    packaging materials is interrupted, RJR Tobacco’s own
    shipments of tobacco products could be materially slowed, which
    could decrease sales and adversely impact RJR Tobacco’s
    relationships with wholesalers and retailers. Delays in the
    shipments of RJR Tobacco’s products may result in certain
    RJR Tobacco brand styles being out of stock at the retail level,
    increasing the potential that consumers may switch to brands
    made by RJR Tobacco’s competitors. In the third quarter of
    2006, RJR Tobacco did experience a shortage of packaging
    materials for certain of its brand styles, however, RJR Tobacco
    does not believe this shortage materially affected the results
    of operations of RJR Tobacco or RAI.


 


    If RJR Tobacco had to seek alternate suppliers, particularly on
    an urgent basis, there is no guarantee that RJR Tobacco could
    find alternate suppliers willing or able to supply packaging
    materials on a timely basis (if at all), at an acceptable cost
    and of the necessary quality. If, as a result of securing an
    alternate supply of packaging materials, RJR Tobacco’s
    packaging related costs increased, its profits could
    consequently decrease. Sales could also be negatively affected
    if the quality of packaging from the alternate suppliers were
    below RJR Tobacco’s requirements.


 


    A material increase in RJR Tobacco’s packaging related
    costs, a material decrease in the quality of packaging materials
    or a material interruption in the supply of packaging materials
    could materially adversely affect the results of operations,
    cash flows and financial condition of RJR Tobacco and,
    consequently, of RAI.



    
    20



Table of Contents



 


    Certain of RAI’s operating subsidiaries face a customer
    concentration risk.


 


    Sales made by RJR Tobacco to McLane Company, Inc., a
    distributor, comprised 29%, 27% and 30% of RJR Tobacco’s
    revenue in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sales made by
    Conwood to McLane Company, Inc. comprised 17% of Conwood’s
    consolidated revenue for the last seven months of 2006. No other
    customer accounted for 10% or more of RJR Tobacco’s or
    Conwood’s revenue during those periods. The loss of this
    customer, or a significant decline in its purchases from RJR
    Tobacco or Conwood, could have a material adverse effect on the
    business, financial condition and results of operations of RJR
    Tobacco or Conwood, as the case may be, and, consequently, of
    RAI.


 


    Fire, violent weather conditions and other disasters may
    adversely affect the operations of RAI’s operating
    subsidiaries.


 


    A major fire, violent weather conditions or other disasters that
    affect manufacturing and other facilities of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries, or of their suppliers and vendors, could
    have a material adverse effect on the operations of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries. Although RAI has insurance coverage for
    some of these events, a prolonged interruption in the
    manufacturing operations of RAI’s operating subsidiaries
    could have a material adverse effect on the ability of its
    operating subsidiaries to effectively operate their businesses.


 


    RAI’s credit facilities contain restrictive covenants
    that may limit the flexibility of RAI and its subsidiaries, and
    breach of those covenants may result in a default under the
    agreement relating to the facilities.


 


    RAI’s credit facilities limit, and in some circumstances
    prohibit, the ability of RAI and its subsidiaries to, among
    other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional debt;



 


     
        • 

    
    pay dividends;



 


     
        • 

    
    make capital expenditures, investments or other restricted
    payments;



 


     
        • 

    
    engage in sale-leaseback transactions;



 


     
        • 

    
    guarantee debt;



 


     
        • 

    
    engage in transactions with shareholders and affiliates;



 


     
        • 

    
    create liens;



 


     
        • 

    
    sell assets;



 


     
        • 

    
    issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries;



 


     
        • 

    
    engage in mergers and acquisitions; and



 


     
        • 

    
    prepay certain indebtedness.





 


    These restrictions could limit the ability of RAI and its
    subsidiaries to obtain future financing, withstand a future
    downturn in their businesses or the economy in general, conduct
    operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities
    that may arise. In addition, if RAI does not comply with these
    covenants or with financial covenants in its credit facilities
    that require it to maintain certain minimum financial ratios,
    any indebtedness outstanding under the credit facilities could
    become immediately due and payable. In addition, the lenders
    under RAI’s credit facilities could refuse to lend funds if
    RAI is not in compliance with the covenants or could terminate
    the credit facilities. If RAI were unable to repay accelerated
    amounts, the lenders under RAI’s credit facilities could
    initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding, or
    proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness.



    
    21



Table of Contents



 


    RAI has substantial debt and may incur substantial additional
    debt, which could adversely affect its financial health and its
    ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in
    its business and make payments on its outstanding debt.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, on a consolidated basis, RAI had
    an aggregate principal amount of $4.389 billion of
    outstanding long-term indebtedness (less current maturities).
    Because of RAI’s substantial indebtedness:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital,
    capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or
    general corporate purposes and its ability to satisfy its
    obligations with respect to its indebtedness may be impaired in
    the future;



 


     
        • 

    
    a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations must be
    dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its
    indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to it for
    other purposes;



 


     
        • 

    
    it may be at a disadvantage compared to its competitors with
    less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest
    rates; and



 


     
        • 

    
    its flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and
    ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, and
    it may be more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic
    conditions or its business or be unable to carry out capital
    spending that is necessary or important to its growth strategy
    and its efforts to improve operating margins.





 


    It is likely that RAI will refinance, or attempt to refinance, a
    significant portion of this indebtedness prior to its maturity
    through the incurrence of new indebtedness. There can be no
    assurance that RAI’s available cash or access to financing
    on acceptable terms will be sufficient to satisfy such
    indebtedness.


 


    An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of
    servicing RAI’s variable rate indebtedness and could cause
    its annual debt service obligations to increase significantly
    and reduce its profitability.


 


    RAI’s borrowings under its credit facilities bear interest
    at a variable or floating rate. As of December 31, 2006,
    the borrowings outstanding under the credit facilities consisted
    solely of the $1.54 billion floating rate term loan. In
    addition, as of December 31, 2006, RAI and RJR had
    outstanding interest rate swap agreements, the effect of which
    was to convert the interest rate applicable to $750 million
    principal amount of debt from a fixed to a floating rate. Any
    increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing
    RAI’s floating rate debt and, consequently, RAI’s net
    income would decrease. A 100 basis-point increase in LIBOR (the
    rate applicable as of December 31, 2006, to the term loan
    and $750 million principal amount of debt subject to the
    interest rate swaps) would increase RAI’s annual interest
    expense by $23 million. For a discussion of how RAI manages
    its exposure to changes in interest rates, see note 13 to
    consolidated financial statements in Item 8.


 


    The ability of RAI to access the debt capital markets could
    be impaired because of its credit rating.


 


    The outstanding notes issued by RAI and RJR are rated below
    investment grade. Because of these ratings, in the future RAI
    may not be able to sell its debt securities or borrow money in
    such amounts, at the times, at the lower interest rates or upon
    the more favorable terms and conditions that might otherwise be
    available to RAI if its debt was rated investment grade. The
    below-investment grade credit rating of the notes may make it
    more difficult for RAI to obtain future debt financing on an
    unsecured basis. In addition, future debt security issuances or
    other borrowings may be subject to further negative terms,
    including limitations on indebtedness or similar restrictive
    covenants, particularly if RAI’s ratings decline further.


 


    RAI’s credit ratings are influenced by some important
    factors not entirely within the control of RAI or its
    affiliates, such as tobacco litigation, the regulatory
    environment and the performance of suppliers and vendors to
    RAI’s operating subsidiaries. Moreover, because the kinds
    of events and contingencies that impair RAI’s credit
    ratings and the ability of RAI and its affiliates to access the
    debt capital markets are often the same kinds of events and
    contingencies that could cause RAI and its affiliates to seek to
    raise additional capital on an urgent basis, RAI and its
    affiliates may not be able to issue debt securities or borrow
    money upon acceptable terms, or at all, at the times at which
    they may most need additional capital.



    
    22



Table of Contents



 




    
    



    
    Item 1B