Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    RAI and its subsidiaries operate with certain known risks and
    uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on their
    results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The
    risks below are not the only ones RAI and its subsidiaries face.
    Additional risks not currently known or currently considered
    immaterial also could affect RAI’s business. You should
    carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with
    other information included in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries could be subject to
    substantial liabilities and bonding difficulties from litigation
    related to cigarette products or smokeless tobacco products,
    thereby reducing operating margins and cash flows from
    operations. Adverse litigation outcomes could have a negative
    impact on RAI’s ability to continue to operate due to their
    impact on cash flows.


 


    RJR Tobacco, the Conwood companies and their affiliates,
    including RAI, and indemnitees, including B&W, have been
    named in a large number of tobacco-related legal actions,
    proceedings or claims. The claimants seek recovery on a variety
    of legal theories, including negligence, strict liability in
    tort, design defect, fraud, misrepresentation, unfair trade
    practices and violations of state and federal antitrust laws.
    Various forms of relief are sought, including compensatory and,
    where available, punitive damages in amounts ranging in some
    cases into the hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars.


 


    The tobacco-related legal actions range from individual lawsuits
    to
    class-actions
    and other aggregate claim lawsuits. In particular,
    class-action
    suits have been filed in a number of states against individual
    cigarette manufacturers, including RJR Tobacco, and their
    parents, including RAI, alleging that the use of the terms
    “lights” and “ultra lights” constitutes
    unfair and deceptive trade practices. In December 2008, the
    U.S. Supreme Court ruled that neither the Federal Cigarette
    Labeling and Advertising Act nor the Federal Trade
    Commission’s regulation of “tar” and nicotine
    disclosures preempts (or bars) such claims. This ruling limits
    certain defenses available to RJR Tobacco and other cigarette
    manufacturers and has led to the filing of additional lawsuits.
    In the event RJR Tobacco and its affiliates and indemnitees lose
    one or more of the pending “lights”
    class-action
    suits, RJR Tobacco, depending upon the amount of any damages
    ordered, could face difficulties in obtaining the bond required
    to stay execution of the judgment. For a more complete
    description of these cases, see
    “— Class-Action
    Suits — ‘Lights’ Cases” in Item 8,
    note 14 to consolidated financial statements.


 


    In Engle v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., the
    Florida Supreme Court issued a ruling that, among other things,
    determined that the case could not proceed further as a class
    action. The ruling also permitted members of the Engle
    class to file individual claims, including claims for
    punitive damages, through January 11, 2008. RJR Tobacco has
    been served as of January 29, 2010 in 7,711 cases on behalf
    of approximately 9,246 plaintiffs. The Engle Progeny
    Cases have resulted in increased litigation and trial activity,
    including an increased number of





    
    11



Table of Contents





    adverse verdicts, and increased expenses. For a more complete
    description of the Engle Progeny cases, see
    “— Engle Progeny Cases” in Item 8,
    note 14 to consolidated financial statements.


 


    Also, the consolidated action, In re: Tobacco
    Litigation Individual Personal Injury Cases, is pending in
    West Virginia, against both RJR Tobacco and B&W. The case
    consists of over 600 plaintiffs and will be tried in a single
    proceeding. Trial began February 1, 2010, but a mistrial
    was declared February 3, 2010. A new trial is scheduled to
    begin June 1, 2010. For a more complete description of this
    case, see “— West Virginia IPIC” in
    Item 8, note 14 to consolidated financial statements.


 


    It is likely that similar legal actions, proceedings and claims
    arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development,
    advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes
    and smokeless tobacco products will continue to be filed against
    RJR Tobacco, the Conwood companies, or their affiliates and
    indemnitees and other tobacco companies for the foreseeable
    future.


 


    Victories by plaintiffs in highly publicized cases against RJR
    Tobacco and other tobacco companies regarding the health effects
    of smoking may stimulate further claims. A material increase in
    the number of pending claims could significantly increase
    defense costs. In addition, adverse outcomes in pending cases
    could have adverse effects on the ability of RJR Tobacco and its
    indemnitees, including B&W, to prevail in other smoking and
    health litigation.


 


    For a more complete description of the litigation involving RAI
    and its operating subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco and the
    Conwood companies, see “— Litigation Affecting
    the Cigarette Industry” and “— Smokeless
    Tobacco Litigation” in Item 8, note 14 to
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    The verdict and order in the case brought by the
    U.S. Department of Justice, while not final, could subject
    RJR Tobacco to additional, substantial marketing restrictions as
    well as significant financial burdens, which would negatively
    impact the results of operations, cash flows and the financial
    position of RJR Tobacco and, consequently, of RAI.


 


    In September 1999, the U.S. Department of Justice brought
    an action against RJR Tobacco, B&W and other tobacco
    companies. The government sought, in addition to other remedies,
    pursuant to the civil provisions of RICO, disgorgement of
    profits in an amount of approximately $280 billion, the
    government contends have been earned as a consequence of a RICO
    racketeering “enterprise.” In August 2006, the court
    found certain defendants, including RJR Tobacco, liable for the
    RICO claims, but did not impose any direct financial penalties.
    Instead, the court, among other things, enjoined the defendants
    from committing future racketeering acts, participating in
    certain trade organizations, making misrepresentations
    concerning smoking and health and youth marketing, and using
    certain brand descriptors such as “low tar,”
    “light,” “ultra light,” “mild” and
    “natural,” and ordered the defendants to issue
    “corrective communications” on five subjects,
    including smoking and health, and addiction.


 


    Both sides have appealed. In October 2006, the U.S. Court
    of Appeals granted the defendants’ motion to stay pending
    the outcome of the defendants’ appeal. On May 22,
    2009, the Court of Appeals affirmed in part the trial
    court’s order and remanded for further proceedings. The
    parties’ petitions for writ of certiorari from the
    U.S. Supreme Court are due February 19, 2010. If the
    order is affirmed without modification, then RJR Tobacco
    believes that certain provisions of the order would have adverse
    business effects on the marketing of RJR Tobacco’s current
    product portfolio and that such effects could be material. Also,
    if the order is affirmed, then RJR Tobacco would incur costs in
    connection with complying with the order, such as the costs of
    corrective communications. In addition, the DOJ has preserved
    its right to seek review of the district court’s denial of
    the government’s request for disgorgement of profits and
    other remedies, which could have a material adverse impact on
    the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of
    RJR Tobacco and, consequently, of RAI.


 


    For a more complete description of this case, see
    “— Health-Care Cost Recovery Cases —
    Department of Justice Case” in Item 8, note 14 to
    consolidated financial statements.




    
    12



Table of Contents





    RJR Tobacco’s overall retail market share of cigarettes
    has declined in recent years and may continue to decline; if RJR
    Tobacco is not able to continue to grow market share of its
    growth brands, or develop, produce or market new alternative
    tobacco products profitably, results of operations, cash flows
    and financial position of RJR Tobacco and, consequently, of RAI
    could be adversely impacted.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s U.S. retail market share of cigarettes
    has been declining for a number of years, and may continue to
    decline. According to data from IRI/Capstone, RJR Tobacco’s
    share of the U.S. cigarette retail market declined slightly
    to 28.3% in 2009 from 28.4% in 2008, continuing a trend in
    effect for several years. If RJR Tobacco’s growth brands do
    not continue to grow combined market share, results of
    operations, cash flows and financial position will be adversely
    affected. In addition, consumer health concerns, changes in
    adult consumer preferences and changes in regulations have
    prompted RJR Tobacco to introduce new alternative tobacco
    products. Consumer acceptance of these new products, such as
    CAMEL Snus or CAMEL Dissolvables, may fall below expectations.
    Furthermore, RJR Tobacco may not find vendors willing to produce
    alternative tobacco products resulting in additional capital
    expenditures for RJR Tobacco.


 


    RJR Tobacco is dependent on the U.S. cigarette market,
    which it expects to continue to decline, negatively impacting
    revenue.


 


    The international rights to substantially all of RJR
    Tobacco’s brands were sold in 1999 to JTI and no
    international rights were acquired in connection with the
    B&W business combination. Therefore, RJR Tobacco is
    dependent on the U.S. cigarette market. Price increases,
    restrictions on advertising and promotions, funding of smoking
    prevention campaigns, increases in regulation and excise taxes,
    health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of
    smoking, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other
    factors have reduced U.S. cigarette consumption.
    U.S. cigarette consumption is expected to continue to
    decline. In addition, RJR Tobacco believes its consumers are
    more price-sensitive than consumers of competing brands, which
    may result in some consumers switching to a lower priced brand.


 


    RJR Tobacco is RAI’s largest operating segment. As such, it
    is the primary source of RAI’s revenue, operating income
    and cash flows.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s contract manufacturing agreements with BAT
    may end in 2014.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s contract manufacturing for BAT accounted for
    5% of total RAI sales and approximately 22% of total RJR Tobacco
    cigarette production in 2009. These contract manufacturing
    agreements may expire at the end of 2014. If BAT’s
    contracts are not renewed or extended or if sales under these
    contracts decline, RJR Tobacco’s revenue, operating income
    and cash flows will be unfavorably impacted.


 


    In the U.S., tobacco products are subject to substantial and
    increasing regulation and taxation, which has a negative effect
    on revenue and profitability.


 


    Tobacco products are subject to substantial federal and state
    excise taxes in the United States. On February 4, 2009,
    President Obama signed into law, effective April 1, 2009,
    an increase of $0.62 in the federal excise tax per pack of
    cigarettes, and significant increases on other tobacco products,
    to fund expansion of the SCHIP.


 


    As a result, the federal excise tax rate for snuff increased
    $0.925 per pound to $1.51 per pound. The federal excise tax on
    small cigars, defined as those weighing three pounds or less per
    thousand, increased $48.502 per thousand to $50.33 per thousand.
    In addition, the federal excise tax rate for roll-your-own
    tobacco increased from $1.097 per pound to $24.78 per pound.


 


    In addition to federal and state excise taxes, certain city and
    county governments also impose substantial excise taxes on
    tobacco products sold. Increased excise taxes are likely to
    result in declines in overall sales volume and shifts by
    consumers to less expensive brands.


 


    A wide variety of federal, state and local laws limit the
    advertising, sale and use of cigarettes, and these laws have
    proliferated in recent years. For example, many local laws
    prohibit smoking in restaurants and other public places. Private
    businesses also have adopted regulations that prohibit or
    restrict, or are intended to discourage, smoking. Such laws and
    regulations also are likely to result in a decline in the
    overall sales volume of cigarettes. For additional information
    on the issues described above, see
    “— Governmental Activity” in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7.




    
    13



Table of Contents





    RAI’s operating subsidiaries are subject to significant
    limitations on advertising and marketing of tobacco products,
    which could harm the value of their existing brands or their
    ability to launch new brands, thus negatively impacting
    revenue.


 


    In the United States, television and radio advertisements of
    cigarettes have been prohibited since 1971, and television and
    radio advertisements of smokeless tobacco products have been
    prohibited since 1986. Under the MSA, certain of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco, cannot use
    billboard advertising, cartoon characters, sponsorship of
    certain events, non-tobacco merchandise bearing their brand
    names and various other advertising and marketing techniques. In
    addition, the MSA prohibits targeting of youth in advertising,
    promotion or marketing of tobacco products, including the
    smokeless tobacco products of RJR Tobacco. The Conwood companies
    are not participants in the MSA. Although these restrictions
    were intended to ensure that tobacco advertising was not aimed
    at young people, some of the restrictions also may limit the
    ability of RAI’s operating subsidiaries to communicate with
    adult tobacco users. Additional restrictions, such as the FDA
    regulations discussed below, may be imposed legislatively or
    agreed to in the future.


 


    The regulation of tobacco products by the Food and Drug
    Administration may adversely affect RAI’s sales and
    operating profit.


 


    On June 22, 2009, President Obama signed into law the FDA
    Tobacco Act, which granted the FDA broad authority over the
    manufacture, sale, marketing and packaging of tobacco products.
    It is likely that the FDA Tobacco Act could result in a decrease
    in cigarette and smokeless tobacco sales in the United States,
    including sales of RJR Tobacco’s and Conwood’s brands,
    and an increase in costs to RJR Tobacco and Conwood, resulting
    in a material adverse effect on RAI’s financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows. RAI believes that such
    regulation may adversely affect the ability of its operating
    subsidiaries to compete against their larger competitor, Altria
    Group Inc., which may be able to more quickly and
    cost-effectively comply with these new rules and regulations.
    The FDA has yet to issue guidance with respect to many
    provisions of the FDA Tobacco Act, which may result in less
    efficient compliance efforts. Finally, the ability of RAI’s
    operating companies to gain efficient market clearance for new
    tobacco products could be affected by FDA rules and regulations.


 


    For a detailed description of the FDA Tobacco Act, see
    “— Governmental Activity” in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s and Conwood’s volumes, market share
    and profitability may be adversely affected by competitive
    actions and pricing pressures in the marketplace.


 


    The tobacco industry is highly competitive. Among the major
    manufacturers, brands primarily compete on product quality,
    price, brand recognition, brand imagery and packaging.
    Substantial marketing support, merchandising display,
    discounting, promotions and other financial incentives generally
    are required to maintain or improve a brand’s market
    position or introduce a new brand.


 


    In addition, substantial payment obligations under the State
    Settlement Agreements adversely affect RJR Tobacco’s
    ability to compete with manufacturers of deep-discount
    cigarettes that are not subject to such substantial obligations.
    For a more complete description of the State Settlement
    Agreements, see “— Health-Care Cost Recovery
    Cases — State Settlement Agreements” in
    Item 8, note 14 to consolidated financial statements.


 


    Conwood’s largest competitor, USSTC, was acquired by the
    parent company of Philip Morris USA, Inc. in January 2009. This
    acquisition of USSTC has changed the competitive dynamics with
    heavy promotions and competitive pricing. In addition, the
    possibility of combining pricing and merchandising display for
    cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products could adversely affect
    Conwood’s and RJR Tobacco’s market share, which would
    adversely affect RAI’s profitability and revenues.


 


    Increases in commodity prices will increase costs and may
    reduce profitability.


 


    Increases in the cost of tobacco leaf, other raw materials and
    other commodities used in RAI’s operating
    subsidiaries’ products could cause profits to decline.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    Certain of RAI’s operating subsidiaries may be required
    to write-down intangible assets, including goodwill, due to
    impairment, thus reducing operating profit.


 


    Intangible assets include goodwill, trademarks and other
    intangibles. The determination of fair value involves
    considerable estimates and judgment. For goodwill, the
    determination of fair value of a reporting unit involves, among
    other things, RAI’s market capitalization, and application
    of the income approach, which includes developing forecasts of
    future cash flows and determining an appropriate discount rate.
    If goodwill impairment is implied, the fair values of individual
    assets and liabilities, including unrecorded intangibles, must
    be determined. RAI believes it has based its goodwill impairment
    testing on reasonable estimates and assumptions, and during the
    annual testing in the fourth quarter of 2009, the estimated fair
    value of each of RAI’s reporting units was substantially in
    excess of its respective carrying value.


 


    Trademarks and other intangible assets with indefinite lives
    also are tested for impairment annually, in the fourth quarter.
    The aggregate fair value of RAI’s operating units’
    trademarks and other intangible assets was substantially in
    excess of their aggregate carrying value. However, the
    individual fair value of six indefinite-lived trademarks was
    less than 15% in excess of their respective carrying values. The
    aggregate carrying value of these six trademarks was
    $561 million at December 31, 2009.


 


    The methodology used to determine the fair value of trademarks
    includes assumptions with inherent uncertainty, including
    projected sales volumes and related projected revenues,
    long-term growth rates, royalty rates that a market participant
    might assume and judgments regarding the factors to develop an
    applied discount rate.


 


    The carrying value of these six trademarks are at risk of
    impairment if future projected revenues or long-term growth
    rates are lower than those currently projected, or if factors
    used in the development of a discount rate result in the
    application of a higher discount rate.


 


    Goodwill, all trademarks and other intangible assets are tested
    more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the
    asset might be impaired. The carrying value of these intangible
    assets could be impaired if a significant adverse change in the
    use, life, or brand strategy of the asset is determined, or if a
    significant adverse change in the legal and regulatory
    environment, business or competitive climate occurs that would
    adversely impact the asset. See Item 8, note 3 to
    consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the
    impairment charges.


 


    Changes in financial market conditions could result in higher
    costs and decreased profitability.


 


    Changes in financial market conditions could negatively impact
    RAI’s interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate
    risk and the return on corporate cash, thus increasing costs and
    reducing profitability. Due to the adverse conditions in the
    financial markets during 2009, RAI invested excess cash in
    either low interest funds or near zero interest funds, thereby
    lowering interest income.


 


    Adverse changes in liquidity in the financial markets could
    result in additional realized or unrealized losses on
    investments.


 


    Adverse changes in the liquidity in the financial markets could
    result in additional realized or unrealized losses associated
    with the value of RAI’s investments, which would negatively
    impact RAI’s consolidated results of operations, cash flows
    and financial position. As of December 31, 2009,
    $80 million of unrealized losses remain in other
    comprehensive loss. For more information on investment losses,
    see Item 8, note 7 to consolidated financial
    statements.


 


    RAI’s access to cash could be impacted by adverse
    changes in the financial markets and bankruptcy of financial
    institutions.


 


    Effective July 3, 2009, the revolving loan commitment of
    Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., which filed for protection under
    Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in 2008, was
    terminated, thereby reducing the total revolving loan
    commitments under RAI’s credit facility from
    $550 million to $498 million. For more information on
    participants in RAI’s credit facility, see
    “— Liquidity and Financial Condition” in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7.




    
    15



Table of Contents





    Increases in pension expense or pension funding may reduce
    RAI’s profitability and cash flow.


 


    RAI’s profitability is affected by the costs of pension
    benefits available to employees generally hired prior to
    January 1, 2004. Adverse changes in investment returns
    earned on pension assets and discount rates used to calculate
    pension and related liabilities or changes in required pension
    funding levels may have an unfavorable impact on pension expense
    and cash flows. During 2009, RAI contributed $295 million
    to its pension plans and expects to contribute $309 million
    to its pension plans in 2010. RAI actively seeks to control
    increases in pension expense, but there can be no assurance that
    profitability will not be adversely affected. In addition,
    changes to pension legislation or changes in pension accounting
    may adversely affect profitability and cash flow.


 


    RJR Tobacco relies on outside suppliers to manage certain
    non-core business processes. Any interruption in these services
    could negatively affect the operations of RJR Tobacco and harm
    its reputation and consequently the operations and reputation of
    RAI.


 


    In an effort to gain cost efficiencies, RJR Tobacco has
    substantially completed the outsourcing of many of its non-core
    business processes. Non-core business processes include, but are
    not limited to, certain processes relating to information
    technology, human resources, trucking and facilities. If any of
    the suppliers fail to perform their obligations in a timely
    manner or at a satisfactory quality level, RJR Tobacco may fail
    to operate effectively and fail to meet shipment demand.


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries rely on a limited number of
    suppliers for direct materials. An interruption in service from
    any of these suppliers could adversely affect the results of
    operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI.


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries rely on a limited number of
    suppliers for direct materials. If a supplier fails to meet any
    of RAI’s operating subsidiary’s demand for direct
    materials, the operating subsidiary may fail to operate
    effectively and may fail to meet shipment demand, adversely
    impacting RAI’s results of operations.


 


    Certain of RAI’s operating subsidiaries face a customer
    concentration risk. The loss of this customer would result in a
    decline in revenue and have an adverse effect on cash flows.


 


    Revenues from McLane Company, Inc., a distributor, comprised 27%
    of RAI’s consolidated revenues in 2009. The loss of this
    customer, or a significant decline in its purchases, could have
    a material adverse effect on revenue of RAI.


 


    Fire, violent weather conditions and other disasters may
    adversely affect the operations of RAI’s operating
    subsidiaries.


 


    A major fire, violent weather conditions or other disasters that
    affect manufacturing and other facilities of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries, or of their suppliers and vendors, could
    have a material adverse effect on the operations of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries. Despite RAI’s insurance coverage
    for some of these events, a prolonged interruption in the
    manufacturing operations of RAI’s operating subsidiaries
    could have a material adverse effect on the ability of its
    operating subsidiaries to effectively operate their businesses.


 


    The agreement relating to RAI’s credit facility contains
    restrictive covenants that limit the flexibility of RAI and its
    subsidiaries. Breach of those covenants will result in a default
    under the agreement relating to the facility.


 


    Restrictions in the agreement relating to RAI’s credit
    facility limit the ability of RAI and its subsidiaries to obtain
    future financing, and could impact the ability to withstand a
    future downturn in their businesses or the economy in general,
    conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business
    opportunities that may arise. In addition, if RAI does not
    comply with these covenants, any indebtedness outstanding under
    the credit facility could become immediately due and payable.
    The lenders under RAI’s credit facility could refuse to
    lend funds if RAI is not in compliance with the covenants or
    could terminate the credit facility. If RAI were unable to repay
    accelerated amounts, the lenders under RAI’s credit
    facility could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation
    proceeding.


 


    For more information on the restrictive covenants in RAI’s
    credit facility, see Item 8, note 11 to consolidated
    financial statements.




    
    16



Table of Contents





    RAI has substantial long-term debt, which could adversely
    affect its financial position and its ability to obtain
    financing in the future and react to changes in its business.


 


    Because RAI and RJR have principal outstanding long-term notes
    of $4.2 billion:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    RAI’s ability to obtain additional financing for working
    capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service
    requirements or general corporate purposes, and its ability to
    satisfy its obligations with respect to its indebtedness, may be
    impaired in the future;




 



     
        • 

    
    a substantial portion of RAI’s cash flow from operations
    must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on
    its indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to it for
    other purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    RAI may be at a disadvantage compared to its competitors with
    less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest
    rates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    RAI’s flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions
    and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited,
    and it may be more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic
    conditions or its business, or be unable to carry out capital
    spending that is necessary or important to its growth strategy
    and its efforts to improve operating margins.





 


    It is likely that RAI will refinance, or attempt to refinance, a
    significant portion of its indebtedness prior to maturity
    through the incurrence of new indebtedness. There can be no
    assurance that RAI’s available cash or access to financing
    on acceptable terms will be sufficient to satisfy such
    indebtedness.


 


    The ability of RAI to access the debt capital markets could
    be impaired if the credit rating of its debt securities falls
    below investment grade.


 


    The outstanding notes issued by RAI and RJR are rated investment
    grade. In certain cases, if RAI’s credit rating falls below
    investment grade, RAI and certain of RAI’s subsidiaries,
    including its material domestic subsidiaries, referred to as the
    Guarantors, will be required to provide collateral to secure
    RAI’s credit facility and senior notes. In such event, RAI
    may not be able to sell additional debt securities or borrow
    money in such amounts, at the times, at the lower interest rates
    or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might be
    available if its debt was rated investment grade. In addition,
    future debt security issuances or other borrowings may be
    subject to further negative terms, including limitations on
    indebtedness or similar restrictive covenants.


 


    RAI’s credit ratings are influenced by some important
    factors not entirely within the control of RAI or its
    affiliates, such as tobacco litigation, the regulatory
    environment and the performance of suppliers and vendors to
    RAI’s operating subsidiaries. Moreover, because the kinds
    of events and contingencies that may impair RAI’s credit
    ratings and the ability of RAI and its affiliates to access the
    debt capital markets are often the same kinds of events and
    contingencies that could cause RAI and its affiliates to seek to
    raise additional capital on an urgent basis, RAI and its
    affiliates may not be able to issue debt securities or borrow
    money upon acceptable terms, or at all, at the times at which
    they may most need additional capital.


 


    For more complete information on RAI’s borrowing
    arrangements, see Item 8, note 11 to consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    B&W’s significant equity interest in RAI could be
    determinative in matters submitted to a vote by RAI
    shareholders, resulting in RAI taking actions that RAI’s
    other shareholders do not support. B&W also has influence
    over RAI by virtue of the governance agreement, which requires
    B&W’s approval before RAI takes certain actions.


 


    B&W owns approximately 42% of the outstanding shares of RAI
    common stock. Only one other stockholder owns more than 10% of
    the outstanding shares of RAI common stock. Unless substantially
    all of RAI’s public shareholders vote together on matters
    presented to RAI shareholders, B&W would have the power to
    determine the outcome of matters submitted to a shareholder vote.




    
    17



Table of Contents





    Moreover, in connection with the B&W business combination,
    RAI, B&W and BAT entered into an agreement, referred to as
    the governance agreement, relating to various aspects of
    RAI’s corporate governance. Under the governance agreement,
    the approval of B&W, as a RAI shareholder, is required in
    connection with, among other things, the following matters:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the sale or transfer of certain RAI intellectual property
    associated with B&W brands having an international
    presence, other than in connection with a sale of RAI; and




 



     
        • 

    
    RAI’s adoption of any takeover defense measures that would
    apply to the acquisition of equity securities of RAI by B&W
    or its affiliates, other than the adoption of the RAI rights
    plan.





 


    Such influence could result in RAI taking actions that
    RAI’s other shareholders do not support.


 


    Under the governance agreement, B&W is entitled to
    nominate certain persons to RAI’s Board, and the approvals
    of the majority of such persons is required before certain
    actions may be taken, even though such persons represent less
    than a majority of the entire Board. In addition, certain
    provisions of RAI’s articles of incorporation may create
    conflicts of interest between RAI and certain of these
    persons.


 


    Under the governance agreement, B&W, based upon its current
    equity stake in RAI, is entitled to nominate five directors to
    RAI’s Board, at least three of whom are required to be
    independent directors and two of whom may be executive officers
    of BAT or any of its subsidiaries. RAI’s Board currently is
    comprised of 12 persons, including B&W’s five
    designees. Matters requiring the approval of RAI’s Board
    generally require the affirmative vote of a majority of the
    directors present at a meeting. Under the governance agreement,
    however, the approval of a majority of B&W’s designees
    on RAI’s Board is required in connection with the following
    matters:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    any issuance of RAI securities in excess of 5% of its
    outstanding voting stock, unless at such time B&W’s
    ownership interest in RAI is less than 32%; and




 



     
        • 

    
    any repurchase of RAI common stock, subject to a number of
    exceptions, unless at such time B&W’s ownership
    interest in RAI is less than 25%.





 


    As a result, B&W’s designees on RAI’s Board may
    prevent the foregoing transactions from being effected,
    notwithstanding a majority of the entire Board may have voted to
    approve such transactions.


 


    Under RAI’s articles of incorporation, a B&W
    designated director who is affiliated with, or employed by, BAT
    or its subsidiaries and affiliates is not required to present a
    transaction, relationship, arrangement or other opportunity, all
    of which are collectively referred to as a business opportunity,
    to RAI if that business opportunity does not relate primarily to
    the United States.


 


    B&W’s significant ownership interest in RAI, and
    RAI’s shareholder rights plan, classified board of
    directors and other anti-takeover defenses could deter
    acquisition proposals and make it difficult for a third party to
    acquire control of RAI without the cooperation of B&W. This
    could have a negative effect on the price of RAI common
    stock.


 


    As RAI’s largest shareholder, B&W could vote its
    shares of RAI common stock against any takeover proposal
    submitted for shareholder approval or refuse to accept any
    tender offer for shares of RAI common stock. This right would
    make it very difficult for a third party to acquire RAI without
    B&W consent. In addition, RAI has a shareholder rights
    plan, a classified board of directors and other takeover
    defenses in its articles of incorporation and bylaws.
    B&W’s ownership interest in RAI and these defenses
    could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay
    or prevent a change in control of RAI. These deterrents could
    adversely affect the price of RAI common stock and make it very
    difficult to remove or replace members of the board of directors
    or management of RAI without cooperation of B&W.




    
    18



Table of Contents





    RAI shareholders may be adversely affected by the expiration
    of the standstill and transfer restrictions in the governance
    agreement, which would enable B&W to, among other things,
    transfer all or a significant percentage of its RAI shares to a
    third party, seek additional representation on the RAI board of
    directors, replace existing RAI directors, solicit proxies or
    otherwise acquire effective control of RAI.


 


    The standstill provisions contained in the governance agreement
    generally restrict B&W from acquiring additional shares of
    RAI common stock and taking other specified actions as a
    shareholder of RAI. These restrictions generally will expire
    upon the earlier of ten years from the date of the B&W
    business combination and the date on which a significant
    transaction, as defined in the governance agreement, is
    consummated or occurs.


 


    Subject to the terms of the RAI shareholder rights plan,
    B&W will be free after expiration of the standstill period
    to increase its ownership interest in RAI to more than 50% and
    may use this controlling vote to elect any number of or all the
    members of RAI’s board of directors.


 


    In addition, if the transfer restrictions in the governance
    agreement are terminated, subject to the terms of the RAI
    shareholder rights plan, there will be no contractual
    restrictions on B&W’s ability to sell or transfer its
    shares of RAI common stock on the open market, in privately
    negotiated transactions or otherwise. These sales or transfers
    could create a substantial decline in the price of shares of RAI
    common stock or, if these sales or transfers were made to a
    single buyer or group of buyers that own RAI shares, could
    result in a third party acquiring effective control of RAI.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B