Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    RAI and its subsidiaries operate with certain known risks and
    uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on their
    results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The
    risks below are not the only ones RAI and its subsidiaries face.
    Additional risks not currently known or currently considered
    immaterial also could affect RAI’s business. You should
    carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with
    other information included in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    Adverse litigation outcomes could have a negative impact on
    RAI’s ability to continue to operate due to their impact on
    cash flows. Additionally, RAI’s operating subsidiaries
    could be subject to substantial liabilities and bonding
    difficulties from litigation related to cigarette products or
    smokeless tobacco products, thereby reducing operating margins
    and cash flows from operations.


 


    RJR Tobacco, American Snuff Co. and their affiliates, including
    RAI, and indemnitees, including B&W, have been named in a
    large number of tobacco-related legal actions, proceedings or
    claims. The claimants seek recovery on a variety of legal
    theories, including negligence, strict liability in tort, design
    defect, fraud, misrepresentation, unfair trade practices and
    violations of state and federal antitrust laws. Various forms of
    relief are sought, including





    
    14



Table of Contents





    compensatory and, where available, punitive damages in amounts
    ranging in some cases into the hundreds of millions or even
    billions of dollars.


 


    The tobacco-related legal actions range from individual lawsuits
    to
    class-actions
    and other aggregate claim lawsuits. In particular,
    class-action
    suits have been filed in a number of states against individual
    cigarette manufacturers, including RJR Tobacco, and their
    parents, including RAI, alleging that the use of the terms
    “lights” and “ultra-lights” constitutes
    unfair and deceptive trade practices. In 2008, the
    U.S. Supreme Court ruled that neither the Federal Cigarette
    Labeling and Advertising Act nor the Federal Trade
    Commission’s regulation of “tar” and nicotine
    disclosures preempts (or bars) such claims. This ruling limits
    certain defenses available to RJR Tobacco and other cigarette
    manufacturers and has led to the filing of additional lawsuits.
    In the event RJR Tobacco and its affiliates and indemnitees lose
    one or more of the pending “lights”
    class-action
    suits, RJR Tobacco, depending upon the amount of any damages
    ordered, could face difficulties in obtaining the bond required
    to stay execution of the judgment.


 


    In Engle v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., the Florida
    Supreme Court issued a ruling that, while determining that the
    case could not proceed further as a class action, permitted
    members of the Engle class to file individual claims,
    including claims for punitive damages, through January 11,
    2008. RJR Tobacco has been served as of December 31, 2010
    in 7,241 cases on behalf of approximately 8,637 plaintiffs. The
    Engle Progeny cases have resulted in increased litigation
    and trial activity, including an increased number of adverse
    verdicts, and increased expenses.


 


    Also, the consolidated action, In re: Tobacco Litigation
    Individual Personal Injury Cases, is pending in West
    Virginia, against both RJR Tobacco and B&W. The case
    consists of over 600 plaintiffs and will be tried in a single
    proceeding. On February 3, 2010 and June 8, 2010,
    mistrials were granted due to the inability to seat a jury. A
    new trial is scheduled for October 17, 2011.


 


    Finally, RJR Tobacco is a defendant in the Louisiana state court
    class action, Scott v. American Tobacco Co., a case in
    which a court of appeals in 2010, entered an amended judgment,
    holding the defendants jointly and severally liable for funding
    the cost of a court-supervised smoking cessation program, and
    ordered the defendants to deposit roughly $242 million plus
    interest into a trust to fund the program. The Scott
    decision has been stayed pending a disposition of the
    defendants’ petition for writ of certiorari in the
    U.S. Supreme Court, but if the ultimate outcome in Scott
    is adverse to RJR Tobacco, the case could have an adverse
    impact on RAI’s financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    It is likely that similar legal actions, proceedings and claims
    arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development,
    advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes
    and smokeless tobacco products will continue to be filed against
    RJR Tobacco, American Snuff Co., or their affiliates and
    indemnitees and other tobacco companies for the foreseeable
    future.


 


    Victories by plaintiffs in highly publicized cases against RJR
    Tobacco and other tobacco companies regarding the health effects
    of smoking may stimulate further claims. A material increase in
    the number of pending claims could significantly increase
    defense costs. In addition, adverse outcomes in pending cases
    could have adverse effects on the ability of RJR Tobacco and its
    indemnitees, including B&W, to prevail in other smoking and
    health litigation.


 


    For a more complete description of the above cases and other
    significant litigation involving RAI and its operating
    subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco and American Snuff Co., see
    “— Litigation Affecting the Cigarette
    Industry” and “— Smokeless Tobacco
    Litigation” in Item 8, note 14 to consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    The verdict and order in the case brought by the
    U.S. Department of Justice, while not final, could subject
    RJR Tobacco to additional, substantial marketing restrictions as
    well as significant financial burdens, which would negatively
    impact the results of operations, cash flows and the financial
    position of RJR Tobacco and, consequently, of RAI.


 


    In 1999, the U.S. Department of Justice brought an action
    against RJR Tobacco, B&W and other tobacco companies. The
    government sought, in addition to other remedies, pursuant to
    the civil provisions of the federal Racketeer Influenced and
    Corrupt Organizations Act, referred to as RICO, disgorgement of
    profits in an amount of approximately $280 billion, the
    government contends have been earned as a consequence of a RICO
    racketeering





    
    15



Table of Contents





    “enterprise.” In 2006, the court found certain
    defendants, including RJR Tobacco, liable for the RICO claims,
    but did not impose any direct financial penalties. Instead, the
    court, among other things, enjoined the defendants from
    committing future racketeering acts, participating in certain
    trade organizations, making misrepresentations concerning
    smoking and health and youth marketing, and using certain brand
    descriptors such as “low tar,” “light,”
    “ultra light,” “mild” and
    “natural,” and ordered the defendants to issue
    “corrective communications” on five subjects,
    including smoking and health, and addiction.


 


    Both sides appealed. In 2009, the Court of Appeals affirmed in
    part the trial court’s order and remanded for further
    proceedings. Both sides’ petitions for writ of certiorari
    from the U.S. Supreme Court were denied in June 2010,
    including the DOJ’s request for review of the district
    court’s denial of the government’s request for
    disgorgement of profits and certain other remedies. Further
    proceedings are pending before the trial court to determine the
    extent to which the original order will be implemented and the
    scope thereof. RJR Tobacco believes that certain provisions of
    the order would have adverse business effects on the marketing
    of RJR Tobacco’s current product portfolio and that such
    effects could be material. Also, RJR Tobacco will likely incur
    costs in connection with complying with the order, such as the
    costs of corrective communications.


 


    For a more complete description of this case, see
    “— Health-Care Cost Recovery Cases —
    Department of Justice Case” in Item 8, note 14 to
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s overall retail market share of cigarettes
    has declined in recent years and may continue to decline; if RJR
    Tobacco is not able to continue to grow market share of its
    growth brands, or develop, produce or market new alternative
    tobacco products profitably, results of operations, cash flows
    and financial position of RJR Tobacco and, consequently, of RAI
    could be adversely impacted.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s U.S. retail market share of cigarettes
    has been declining for a number of years, and may continue to
    decline. According to data from IRI/Capstone, RJR Tobacco’s
    share of the U.S. cigarette retail market declined slightly
    to 28.1% in 2010 from 28.3% in 2009, continuing a trend in
    effect for several years. If RJR Tobacco’s growth brands do
    not continue to grow combined market share, results of
    operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely
    affected. In addition, consumer health concerns, changes in
    adult consumer preferences and changes in regulations have
    prompted RJR Tobacco to introduce new alternative tobacco
    products. Consumer acceptance of these new products, such as
    CAMEL Snus or CAMEL Dissolvables, may fall below expectations.
    Furthermore, RJR Tobacco may not find vendors willing to produce
    alternative tobacco products resulting in additional capital
    expenditures for RJR Tobacco.


 


    RJR Tobacco is dependent on the U.S. cigarette market,
    which it expects to continue to decline, negatively impacting
    revenue.


 


    The international rights to substantially all of RJR
    Tobacco’s brands were sold in 1999 to JTI and no
    international rights were acquired in connection with the
    B&W business combination. Therefore, RJR Tobacco is
    dependent on the U.S. cigarette market. Price increases,
    restrictions on advertising and promotions, funding of smoking
    prevention campaigns, increases in regulation and excise taxes,
    health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of
    smoking, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other
    factors have reduced U.S. cigarette consumption.
    U.S. cigarette consumption is expected to continue to
    decline. In addition, RJR Tobacco believes its consumers are
    more price-sensitive than consumers of competing brands, which
    may result in some consumers switching to a lower priced brand.


 


    RJR Tobacco is RAI’s largest operating segment. As such, it
    is the primary source of RAI’s revenue, operating income
    and cash flows.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s contract manufacturing agreements with BAT
    may end in 2014.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s contract manufacturing for BAT accounted for
    4% of total RAI sales and approximately 22% of total RJR Tobacco
    cigarette production in 2010. These contract manufacturing
    agreements may expire at the end of 2014. If BAT’s
    contracts are not renewed or extended or if sales under these
    contracts decline, RJR Tobacco’s revenue, operating income
    and cash flows will be unfavorably impacted.


 


    In the U.S., tobacco products are subject to substantial and
    increasing regulation and taxation, which has a negative effect
    on revenue and profitability.




    
    16



Table of Contents





    Tobacco products are subject to substantial federal and state
    excise taxes in the United States. Certain city and county
    governments also impose substantial excise taxes on tobacco
    products sold. Increased excise taxes are likely to result in
    declines in overall sales volume and shifts by consumers to less
    expensive brands.


 


    A wide variety of federal, state and local laws limit the
    advertising, sale and use of cigarettes, and these laws have
    proliferated in recent years. For example, many local laws
    prohibit smoking in restaurants and other public places. Private
    businesses also have adopted regulations that prohibit or
    restrict, or are intended to discourage, smoking. Such laws and
    regulations also are likely to result in a decline in the
    overall sales volume of cigarettes. For additional information
    on the issues described above, see
    “— Governmental Activity” in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7.


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries are subject to significant
    limitations on advertising and marketing of tobacco products,
    which could harm the value of their existing brands or their
    ability to launch new brands, thus negatively impacting
    revenue.


 


    In the United States, television and radio advertisements of
    cigarettes have been prohibited since 1971, and television and
    radio advertisements of smokeless tobacco products have been
    prohibited since 1986. Under the MSA, certain of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco, cannot use
    billboard advertising, cartoon characters, sponsorship of
    certain events, non-tobacco merchandise bearing their brand
    names and various other advertising and marketing techniques.
    The MSA also prohibits targeting of youth in advertising,
    promotion or marketing of tobacco products, including the
    smokeless tobacco products of RJR Tobacco. American Snuff Co. is
    not a participant in the MSA. Although these restrictions were
    intended to ensure that tobacco advertising was not aimed at
    young people, some of the restrictions also may limit the
    ability of RAI’s operating subsidiaries to communicate with
    adult tobacco users. In addition, pursuant to the FDA Tobacco
    Act, the FDA has reissued regulations addressing advertising and
    marketing restrictions that were originally promulgated in 1996.
    Additional restrictions under the FDA regulations, or otherwise,
    may be imposed or agreed to in the future.


 


    The regulation of tobacco products by the FDA may adversely
    affect RAI’s sales and operating profit.


 


    The FDA Tobacco Act grants the FDA broad authority over the
    manufacture, sale, marketing and packaging of tobacco products.
    It is likely that the FDA Tobacco Act could result in a decrease
    in cigarette and smokeless tobacco sales in the United States,
    including sales of RJR Tobacco’s and American Snuff’s
    brands, and an increase in costs to RJR Tobacco and American
    Snuff, resulting in a material adverse effect on RAI’s
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. RAI
    believes that such regulation may adversely affect the ability
    of its operating subsidiaries to compete against their larger
    competitor, Altria Group Inc., which may be able to more quickly
    and cost-effectively comply with these new rules and
    regulations. The FDA has yet to issue guidance with respect to
    many provisions of the FDA Tobacco Act, which may result in less
    efficient compliance efforts. Finally, the ability of RAI’s
    operating companies to gain efficient market clearance for new
    tobacco products could be affected by FDA rules and regulations.


 


    For a detailed description of the FDA Tobacco Act, see
    “— Governmental Activity” in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s and American Snuff’s volumes, market
    share and profitability may be adversely affected by competitive
    actions and pricing pressures in the marketplace.


 


    The tobacco industry is highly competitive. Among the major
    manufacturers, brands primarily compete on product quality,
    price, brand recognition, brand imagery and packaging.
    Substantial marketing support, merchandising display,
    discounting, promotions and other financial incentives generally
    are required to maintain or improve a brand’s market
    position or introduce a new brand.


 


    In addition, substantial payment obligations under the State
    Settlement Agreements adversely affect RJR Tobacco’s
    ability to compete with manufacturers of deep-discount
    cigarettes that are not subject to such substantial obligations.
    For a more complete description of the State Settlement
    Agreements, see “— Health-Care Cost Recovery
    Cases — State Settlement Agreements” in
    Item 8, note 14 to consolidated financial statements.


 


    Increases in commodity prices will increase costs and may
    reduce profitability.




    
    17



Table of Contents





    Increases in the cost of tobacco leaf, other raw materials and
    other commodities used in RAI’s operating
    subsidiaries’ products could cause profits to decline.


 


    Certain of RAI’s operating subsidiaries may be required
    to write-down intangible assets, including goodwill, due to
    impairment, thus reducing operating profit.


 


    Intangible assets include goodwill, trademarks and other
    intangibles. The determination of fair value involves
    considerable estimates and judgment. For goodwill, the
    determination of fair value of a reporting unit involves, among
    other things, RAI’s market capitalization, and application
    of the income approach, which includes developing forecasts of
    future cash flows and determining an appropriate discount rate.
    If goodwill impairment is implied, the fair values of individual
    assets and liabilities, including unrecorded intangibles, must
    be determined. RAI believes it has based its goodwill impairment
    testing on reasonable estimates and assumptions, and during the
    annual testing in the fourth quarter of 2010, the estimated fair
    value of each of RAI’s reporting units was substantially in
    excess of its respective carrying value.


 


    Trademarks and other intangible assets with indefinite lives
    also are tested for impairment annually, in the fourth quarter.
    The aggregate fair value of RAI’s operating units’
    trademarks and other intangible assets was substantially in
    excess of their aggregate carrying value. However, the
    individual fair values of two indefinite-lived trademarks were
    less than 15% in excess of their respective carrying values. The
    aggregate carrying value of these two trademarks was
    $53 million at December 31, 2010.


 


    The methodology used to determine the fair value of trademarks
    includes assumptions with inherent uncertainty, including
    projected sales volumes and related projected revenues,
    long-term growth rates, royalty rates that a market participant
    might assume and judgments regarding the factors to develop an
    applied discount rate.


 


    The carrying value of intangible assets are at risk of
    impairment if future projected revenues or long-term growth
    rates are lower than those currently projected, or if factors
    used in the development of a discount rate result in the
    application of a higher discount rate.


 


    Goodwill, all trademarks and other intangible assets are tested
    more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the
    asset might be impaired. The carrying value of these intangible
    assets could be impaired if a significant adverse change in the
    use, life, or brand strategy of the asset is determined, or if a
    significant adverse change in the legal and regulatory
    environment, business or competitive climate occurs that would
    adversely impact the asset. See Item 8, note 3 to
    consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the
    impairment charges, including a goodwill impairment charge in
    connection with the classification of the Lane operations as
    held for sale in the fourth quarter of 2010.


 


    Changes in financial market conditions could result in higher
    costs and decreased profitability.


 


    Changes in financial market conditions could negatively impact
    RAI’s interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate
    risk and the return on corporate cash, thus increasing costs and
    reducing profitability. Due to the adverse conditions in the
    financial markets, RAI continues to invest excess cash in either
    low interest funds or near zero interest funds, thereby lowering
    interest income.


 


    Adverse changes in liquidity in the financial markets could
    result in additional realized or unrealized losses on
    investments.


 


    Adverse changes in the liquidity in the financial markets could
    result in additional realized or unrealized losses associated
    with the value of RAI’s investments, which would negatively
    impact RAI’s consolidated results of operations, cash flows
    and financial position. As of December 31, 2010,
    $51 million of unrealized losses remain in other
    comprehensive loss. For more information on investment losses,
    see Item 8, note 2 to consolidated financial
    statements.


 


    Increases in pension expense or pension funding may reduce
    RAI’s profitability and cash flow.


 


    RAI’s profitability is affected by the costs of pension
    benefits available to employees generally hired prior to 2004.
    Adverse changes in investment returns earned on pension assets
    and discount rates used to calculate pension and related
    liabilities or changes in required pension funding levels may
    have an unfavorable impact on pension expense and cash flows.
    During 2010, RAI contributed $811 million to its pension
    plans and expects to contribute





    
    18



Table of Contents





    $318 million to its pension plans in 2011. RAI actively
    seeks to control increases in pension expense, but there can be
    no assurance that profitability will not be adversely affected.
    In addition, changes to pension legislation or changes in
    pension accounting may adversely affect profitability and cash
    flow.


 


    RJR Tobacco and American Snuff rely on outside suppliers to
    manage certain non-core business processes. Any interruption in
    these services could negatively affect the operations of RJR
    Tobacco and American Snuff and harm their reputation and
    consequently the operations and reputation of RAI.


 


    In an effort to gain cost efficiencies, RJR Tobacco and American
    Snuff have substantially completed the outsourcing of many of
    their non-core business processes. Non-core business processes
    include, but are not limited to, certain processes relating to
    information technology, human resources, trucking and
    facilities. If any of the suppliers fail to perform their
    obligations in a timely manner or at a satisfactory quality
    level, RJR Tobacco and American Snuff may fail to operate
    effectively and fail to meet shipment demand.


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries rely on a limited number of
    suppliers for direct materials. An interruption in service from
    any of these suppliers could adversely affect the results of
    operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI.


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries rely on a limited number of
    suppliers for direct materials. If a supplier fails to meet any
    of RAI’s operating subsidiary’s demand for direct
    materials, the operating subsidiary may fail to operate
    effectively and may fail to meet shipment demand, adversely
    impacting RAI’s results of operations.


 


    Certain of RAI’s operating subsidiaries face a customer
    concentration risk. The loss of this customer would result in a
    decline in revenue and have an adverse effect on cash flows.


 


    Revenues from McLane Company, Inc., a distributor, comprised 27%
    of RAI’s consolidated revenues in 2010. The loss of this
    customer, or a significant decline in its purchases, could have
    a material adverse effect on revenue of RAI.


 


    Fire, violent weather conditions and other disasters may
    adversely affect the operations of RAI’s operating
    subsidiaries.


 


    A major fire, violent weather conditions or other disasters that
    affect manufacturing and other facilities of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries, or of their suppliers and vendors, could
    have a material adverse effect on the operations of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries. Despite RAI’s insurance coverage
    for some of these events, a prolonged interruption in the
    manufacturing operations of RAI’s operating subsidiaries
    could have a material adverse effect on the ability of its
    operating subsidiaries to effectively operate their businesses.


 


    The agreement relating to RAI’s credit facility contains
    restrictive covenants that limit the flexibility of RAI and its
    subsidiaries. Breach of those covenants could result in a
    default under the agreement relating to the facility.


 


    Restrictions in the agreement relating to RAI’s credit
    facility limit the ability of RAI and its subsidiaries to obtain
    future financing, and could impact the ability to withstand a
    future downturn in their businesses or the economy in general,
    conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business
    opportunities that may arise. In addition, if RAI does not
    comply with these covenants, any indebtedness outstanding under
    the credit facility could become immediately due and payable.
    The lenders under RAI’s credit facility could refuse to
    lend funds if RAI is not in compliance with the covenants or
    could terminate the credit facility. If RAI were unable to repay
    accelerated amounts, the lenders under RAI’s credit
    facility could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation
    proceeding.


 


    For more information on the restrictive covenants in RAI’s
    credit facility, see Item 8, note 12 to consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    RAI has substantial long-term debt, which could adversely
    affect its financial position and its ability to obtain
    financing in the future and react to changes in its business.


 


    Because RAI and RJR have principal outstanding long-term notes
    of $3.9 billion:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    RAI’s ability to obtain additional financing for working
    capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service
    requirements or general corporate purposes, and its ability to
    satisfy its obligations with respect to its indebtedness, may be
    impaired in the future;







    
    19



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a substantial portion of RAI’s cash flow from operations
    must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on
    its indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to it for
    other purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    RAI may be at a disadvantage compared to its competitors with
    less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest
    rates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    RAI’s flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions
    and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited,
    and it may be more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic
    conditions or its business, or be unable to carry out capital
    spending that is necessary or important to its growth strategy
    and its efforts to improve operating margins.





 


    It is likely that RAI will refinance, or attempt to refinance, a
    significant portion of its indebtedness prior to maturity
    through the incurrence of new indebtedness. There can be no
    assurance that RAI’s available cash or access to financing
    on acceptable terms will be sufficient to satisfy such
    indebtedness.


 


    The ability of RAI to access the debt capital markets could
    be impaired if the credit rating of its debt securities falls
    below investment grade.


 


    The outstanding notes issued by RAI and RJR are rated investment
    grade. In certain cases, if RAI’s credit rating falls below
    investment grade, RAI and certain of RAI’s subsidiaries,
    including its material domestic subsidiaries, referred to as the
    Guarantors, will be required to provide collateral to secure
    RAI’s credit facility and senior notes. In such event, RAI
    may not be able to sell additional debt securities or borrow
    money in such amounts, at the times, at the lower interest rates
    or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might be
    available if its debt was rated investment grade. In addition,
    future debt security issuances or other borrowings may be
    subject to further negative terms, including limitations on
    indebtedness or similar restrictive covenants.


 


    RAI’s credit ratings are influenced by some important
    factors not entirely within the control of RAI or its
    affiliates, such as tobacco litigation, the regulatory
    environment and the performance of suppliers to RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries. Moreover, because the kinds of events
    and contingencies that may impair RAI’s credit ratings and
    the ability of RAI and its affiliates to access the debt capital
    markets are often the same kinds of events and contingencies
    that could cause RAI and its affiliates to seek to raise
    additional capital on an urgent basis, RAI and its affiliates
    may not be able to issue debt securities or borrow money with
    acceptable terms, or at all, at the times at which they may most
    need additional capital.


 


    For more complete information on RAI’s borrowing
    arrangements, see Item 8, notes 12 and 13 to
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    B&W’s significant equity interest in RAI could be
    determinative in matters submitted to a vote by RAI
    shareholders, resulting in RAI taking actions that RAI’s
    other shareholders do not support. B&W also has influence
    over RAI by virtue of the governance agreement, which requires
    B&W’s approval before RAI takes certain actions.


 


    B&W owns approximately 42% of the outstanding shares of RAI
    common stock. Only one other shareholder owns more than 10% of
    the outstanding shares of RAI common stock. Unless substantially
    all of RAI’s public shareholders vote together on matters
    presented to RAI shareholders, B&W would have the power to
    determine the outcome of matters submitted to a shareholder vote.


 


    Moreover, in connection with the B&W business combination,
    RAI, B&W and BAT entered into an agreement, referred to as
    the governance agreement, relating to various aspects of
    RAI’s corporate governance. Under the governance agreement,
    the approval of B&W, as a RAI shareholder, is required in
    connection with, among other things, the following matters:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the sale or transfer of certain RAI intellectual property
    associated with B&W brands having an international
    presence, other than in connection with a sale of RAI; and




 



     
        • 

    
    RAI’s adoption of any takeover defense measures that would
    apply to the acquisition of equity securities of RAI by B&W
    or its affiliates, other than the adoption of the RAI rights
    plan.





 


    Such influence could result in RAI taking actions that
    RAI’s other shareholders do not support.




    
    20



Table of Contents





    Under the governance agreement, B&W is entitled to
    nominate certain persons to RAI’s Board, and the approvals
    of the majority of such persons is required before certain
    actions may be taken, even though such persons represent less
    than a majority of the entire Board. In addition, certain
    provisions of RAI’s articles of incorporation may create
    conflicts of interest between RAI and certain of these
    persons.


 


    Under the governance agreement, B&W, based upon its current
    equity stake in RAI, is entitled to nominate five directors to
    RAI’s Board, at least three of whom are required to be
    independent directors and two of whom may be executive officers
    of BAT or any of its subsidiaries. RAI’s Board currently is
    comprised of 12 persons, including four designees of
    B&W. Matters requiring the approval of RAI’s Board
    generally require the affirmative vote of a majority of the
    directors present at a meeting. Under the governance agreement,
    however, the approval of a majority of B&W’s designees
    on RAI’s Board is required in connection with the following
    matters:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    any issuance of RAI securities in excess of 5% of its
    outstanding voting stock, unless at such time B&W’s
    ownership interest in RAI is less than 32%; and




 



     
        • 

    
    any repurchase of RAI common stock, subject to a number of
    exceptions, unless at such time B&W’s ownership
    interest in RAI is less than 25%.





 


    As a result, B&W’s designees on RAI’s Board may
    prevent the foregoing transactions from being effected,
    notwithstanding a majority of the entire Board may have voted to
    approve such transactions.


 


    Under RAI’s articles of incorporation, a B&W
    designated director who is affiliated with, or employed by, BAT
    or its subsidiaries and affiliates is not required to present a
    transaction, relationship, arrangement or other opportunity, all
    of which are collectively referred to as a business opportunity,
    to RAI if that business opportunity does not relate primarily to
    the United States.


 


    B&W’s significant ownership interest in RAI, and
    RAI’s shareholder rights plan, classified board of
    directors and other anti-takeover defenses could deter
    acquisition proposals and make it difficult for a third party to
    acquire control of RAI without the cooperation of B&W. This
    could have a negative effect on the price of RAI common
    stock.


 


    As RAI’s largest shareholder, B&W could vote its
    shares of RAI common stock against any takeover proposal
    submitted for shareholder approval or refuse to accept any
    tender offer for shares of RAI common stock. This right would
    make it very difficult for a third party to acquire RAI without
    B&W consent. In addition, RAI has a shareholder rights
    plan, a classified board of directors and other takeover
    defenses in its articles of incorporation and bylaws.
    B&W’s ownership interest in RAI and these defenses
    could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay
    or prevent a change in control of RAI. These deterrents could
    adversely affect the price of RAI common stock and make it very
    difficult to remove or replace members of the board of directors
    or management of RAI without cooperation of B&W.


 


    RAI shareholders may be adversely affected by the expiration
    of the standstill and transfer restrictions in the governance
    agreement, which would enable B&W to, among other things,
    transfer all or a significant percentage of its RAI shares to a
    third party, seek additional representation on the RAI board of
    directors, replace existing RAI directors, solicit proxies or
    otherwise acquire effective control of RAI.


 


    The standstill provisions contained in the governance agreement
    generally restrict B&W from acquiring additional shares of
    RAI common stock and taking other specified actions as a
    shareholder of RAI. These restrictions generally will expire
    upon the earlier of ten years from the date of the B&W
    business combination and the date on which a significant
    transaction, as defined in the governance agreement, is
    consummated or occurs.


 


    Subject to the terms of the RAI shareholder rights plan,
    B&W will be free after expiration of the standstill period
    to increase its ownership interest in RAI to more than 50% and
    may use this controlling vote to elect any number of or all the
    members of RAI’s board of directors.


 


    In addition, if the transfer restrictions in the governance
    agreement are terminated, subject to the terms of the RAI
    shareholder rights plan, there will be no contractual
    restrictions on B&W’s ability to sell or transfer its
    shares of RAI common stock on the open market, in privately
    negotiated transactions or otherwise. These sales or transfers
    could create a substantial decline in the price of shares of RAI
    common stock or, if these sales or transfers were





    
    21



Table of Contents





    made to a single buyer or group of buyers that own RAI shares,
    could result in a third party acquiring effective control of RAI.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B