Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    RAI and its subsidiaries operate with certain known risks and
    uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on their
    results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The
    following is a description of their most significant risks and
    uncertainties:


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries could be subject to
    substantial liabilities and bonding difficulties from cases
    related to cigarette products or smokeless tobacco products,
    thereby reducing operating margins and 



    
    10



Table of Contents




    cash flows from operations. Adverse litigation outcomes could
    have a negative impact on RAI’s ability to continue to
    operate due to their impact on cash flows.


 


    RJR Tobacco, the Conwood companies and their affiliates,
    including RAI, and indemnitees, including B&W, have been
    named in a large number of tobacco-related legal actions,
    proceedings or claims. The claimants seek recovery on a variety
    of legal theories, including negligence, strict liability in
    tort, design defect, fraud, misrepresentation, unfair trade
    practices and violations of state and federal antitrust laws.
    Various forms of relief are sought, including compensatory and,
    where available, punitive damages in amounts ranging in some
    cases into the hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars.


 


    It is likely that similar legal actions, proceedings and claims
    arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development,
    advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes
    and smokeless tobacco products will continue to be filed against
    RJR Tobacco, the Conwood companies, or their affiliates and
    indemnitees and other tobacco companies for the foreseeable
    future.


 


    Victories by plaintiffs in highly publicized cases against RJR
    Tobacco and other tobacco companies regarding the health effects
    of smoking may stimulate further claims. A material increase in
    the number of pending claims could significantly increase
    defense costs. In addition, adverse outcomes in pending cases
    could have adverse effects on the ability of RJR Tobacco and its
    indemnitees, including B&W, to prevail in other smoking and
    health litigation.


 


    For a more complete description of the litigation involving RAI
    and its operating subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco and the
    Conwood companies, see “— Litigation Affecting
    the Cigarette Industry — Overview” and
    “— Smokeless Tobacco Litigation” in
    Item 8, note 14 to consolidated financial statements.


 


    Class-action suits have been filed in a number of states against
    individual cigarette manufacturers and their parent
    corporations, alleging that the use of the terms
    “lights” and “ultra lights” constitutes
    unfair and deceptive trade practices. In addition, a nation-wide
    “lights” class-action suit is pending in federal court
    against cigarette manufacturers, including RJR Tobacco and
    B&W. In the event RJR Tobacco and its affiliates and
    indemnitees lose one or more of the pending “lights”
    class-action suits, RJR Tobacco, depending upon the amount of
    any damages ordered, could face difficulties in obtaining the
    bond required to stay execution of the judgment. For a more
    complete description of these cases, see
    “— Class-Action Suits —
    ‘Lights’ Cases” in Item 8, note 14 to
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    As a result of the order issued in a case brought by the
    U.S. Department of Justice, RJR Tobacco could be subject to
    additional, substantial marketing restrictions, which could
    negatively impact revenue, increase related compliance costs and
    reduce operating margins of RJR Tobacco, and, consequently of
    RAI.


 


    In September 1999, the U.S. Department of Justice brought
    an action against RJR Tobacco, B&W and other tobacco
    companies. The government sought, in addition to other remedies,
    pursuant to the civil provisions of RICO, disgorgement of
    profits the government contends were earned as a consequence of
    a RICO racketeering “enterprise.” In August 2006, the
    court found certain defendants, including RJR Tobacco, liable
    for the RICO claims, but did not impose any direct financial
    penalties. Instead, the court, among other things, enjoined the
    defendants from committing future racketeering acts,
    participating in certain trade organizations, making
    misrepresentations concerning smoking and health and youth
    marketing, and using certain brand descriptors such as “low
    tar,” “light,” “ultra light,”
    “mild” and “natural,” and ordered the
    defendants to issue “corrective communications” on
    five subjects, including smoking and health and addiction.


 


    Both sides have appealed. In October 2006, the U.S. Court
    of Appeals granted the defendants’ motion to stay pending
    the outcome of defendants’ appeal. Briefing is underway.
    RJR Tobacco does not know the timing of an appellate decision
    or, if the order is affirmed, the compliance deadlines that will
    be imposed. If the order is affirmed without modification, then
    RJR Tobacco believes that certain provisions of the order, such
    as the ban on certain brand style descriptors and the corrective
    advertising requirements, would have adverse business effects on
    the marketing of RJR Tobacco’s current product portfolio
    and that such effects could be material. Also, if the order is
    affirmed, then RJR Tobacco would incur costs in connection with
    complying with the order, such as the costs of changing its
    current packaging to conform to the ban on certain brand
    descriptors and the costs of corrective communications.



    
    11



Table of Contents




    For a more complete description of this case, see
    “— Health-Care Cost Recovery Cases —
    Department of Justice Case” in Item 8, note 14 to
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s retail market share has declined in recent
    years and is expected to continue to decline over the next
    several years; any continuation in the decline beyond the next
    several years could adversely affect the results of operations,
    cash flows and financial position of RJR Tobacco and
    consequently, of RAI.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s U.S. retail market share has been
    declining for a number of years and RJR Tobacco expects this
    market-share to continue to decline over the next several years.
    According to data from IRI, RJR Tobacco’s share of the
    U.S. cigarette retail market declined to 29.0% in 2007 from
    29.8% in 2006, continuing a trend in effect for several years.
    If RJR Tobacco’s recently implemented revised brand
    portfolio is not successful and does not result in growth in
    total RJR Tobacco market share, or if RJR Tobacco continues to
    lose market share, results of operations, cash flows and
    financial position will be adversely affected.


 


    RJR Tobacco is dependent on the U.S. cigarette business,
    which it expects to continue to decline, negatively impacting
    revenue.


 


    The international rights to substantially all of RJR
    Tobacco’s brands were sold in 1999 to JTI. In addition, in
    connection with the B&W business combination in 2004, RAI
    entered into a non-competition agreement with BAT under which
    RAI’s operating subsidiaries generally are prohibited,
    subject to certain exceptions, from manufacturing and marketing
    certain tobacco products outside the United States until July
    2009. As a result of these limitations, RJR Tobacco is dependent
    on the U.S. cigarette market. Price increases, restrictions
    on advertising and promotions, funding of smoking prevention
    campaigns, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health
    concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking,
    increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other factors
    have reduced U.S. cigarette consumption.
    U.S. cigarette consumption is expected to continue to
    decline.


 


    RJR Tobacco is RAI’s largest segment. As such, it is the
    primary source of RAI’s revenue, operating income and cash
    flows.


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries are subject to significant
    limitations on advertising and marketing of tobacco products,
    which could harm the value of their existing brands or their
    ability to launch new brands, thus negatively impacting
    revenue.


 


    In the United States, television and radio advertisements of
    cigarettes have been prohibited since 1971, and television and
    radio advertisements of smokeless tobacco products have been
    prohibited since 1986. Under the MSA, certain of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco, cannot use
    billboard advertising, cartoon characters, sponsorship of
    certain events, non-tobacco merchandise bearing their brand
    names and various other advertising and marketing techniques. In
    addition, the MSA prohibits targeting of youth in advertising,
    promotion or marketing of tobacco products, including the
    smokeless tobacco products of RJR Tobacco. The Conwood companies
    are not participants in the MSA. Although these restrictions
    were intended to ensure that tobacco advertising was not aimed
    at young people, some of the restrictions also may limit the
    ability of RAI’s operating subsidiaries to communicate with
    adult tobacco users. Additional restrictions may be imposed
    legislatively or agreed to in the future. Recent proposals have
    included limiting tobacco advertising to
    black-and-white,
    text-only advertisements. Similar to the potential FDA
    restrictions described below, these limitations may make it
    difficult to maintain the value of existing brands or brand
    styles, and could significantly impair the ability of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries to launch new brand styles.


 


    In the U.S., tobacco products are subject to substantial and
    increasing regulation and taxation, which has a negative effect
    on revenue and profitability.


 


    Tobacco products are subject to substantial federal and state
    excise taxes in the United States. In addition, certain city and
    county governments also impose substantial excise taxes on
    tobacco products sold. Increased excise taxes are likely to
    result in declines in overall sales volume and shifts by
    consumers to less expensive brands.


 


    A wide variety of federal, state and local laws limit the
    advertising, sale and use of cigarettes, and these laws have
    proliferated in recent years. For example, many local laws
    prohibit smoking in restaurants and other public places. Private
    businesses also have adopted regulations that prohibit or
    restrict, or are intended to discourage, smoking.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    In February 2007, proposed legislation was introduced in the
    U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate that
    would give the FDA broad regulatory authority over tobacco
    products. The proposals would grant the FDA authority to impose
    product standards, including standards relating to, among other
    things, nicotine yields and smoke constituents. Additionally,
    the proposal would reinstate the FDA’s 1996 proposed
    regulations related to, among other things, additional warning
    notices, the disallowance of advertising and promotion expenses
    as deductions under federal tax law, a ban or further
    restriction of all advertising and promotion and increased
    regulation of the manufacturing and marketing of tobacco
    products by new or existing federal agencies. The proposed
    legislation also would govern modified-risk products.


 


    Over the years, various state and local governments have
    continued to regulate tobacco products, including smokeless
    tobacco products. These regulations relate to, among other
    things, the imposition of significantly higher taxes, increases
    in the minimum age to purchase tobacco products, sampling and
    advertising bans or restrictions, ingredient and constituent
    disclosure requirements and significant tobacco control media
    campaigns. Additional state and local legislative and regulatory
    actions will likely be considered in the future, including,
    among other things, restrictions on the use of flavorings.


 


    Additional federal or state regulation relating to the
    manufacture, sale, distribution, advertising, labeling,
    mandatory ingredients disclosure and nicotine yield information
    disclosure of tobacco products could reduce sales, increase
    costs and have a material adverse effect on the business of the
    operating subsidiaries of RAI.


 


    A number of state governments have adopted or are considering
    adopting legislation establishing fire standards compliance for
    cigarettes. The cost of complying with standards that vary from
    state to state would increase production complexity and could
    have an adverse effect on the results of operations of RJR
    Tobacco and consequently of RAI.


 


    For additional information on the issues described above, see
    “— Governmental Activity” in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s and Conwood’s volumes, market share
    and profitability may be adversely affected by competitive
    actions and pricing pressures in the marketplace.


 


    The tobacco industry is highly competitive. Among the major
    manufacturers, brands primarily compete on product quality,
    price, brand recognition, brand imagery and packaging.
    Substantial marketing support, merchandising display,
    discounting, promotions and other financial incentives generally
    are required to maintain or improve a brand’s market
    position or introduce a new brand.


 


    In addition, substantial payment obligations under the MSA
    adversely affect RJR Tobacco’s ability to compete with
    manufacturers of deep-discount cigarettes that are not subject
    to such substantial obligations. For a more complete description
    of the MSA, see “— Health-Care Recovery
    Cases — MSA” in Item 8, note 14 to
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    Conwood not only faces competition from its largest competitor,
    U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company, but also from a participant
    in the cigarette market that has begun test-marketing moist
    snuff products. Increased competition could strengthen pricing
    pressure or decrease Conwood’s market share, either of
    which would adversely affect Conwood’s profitability and
    revenues.


 


    If RJR Tobacco is not able to develop, produce or market new
    products profitably and with new technologies in response to
    regulatory changes or changes in adult consumer preferences,
    revenue and results of operations could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Consumer health concerns and changes in regulations are likely
    to require or cause RJR Tobacco to introduce new products or
    make substantial changes to existing products. Similarly, RAI
    believes that there may be increasing pressure from public
    health authorities and consumers to develop a conventional
    cigarette or an alternative cigarette that provides a
    demonstrable reduced risk of adverse health effects. RJR Tobacco
    may not be able to develop a potentially reduced risk product
    that is broadly acceptable to adult consumers in a
    cost-effective manner. Further, additional marketing
    restrictions could be imposed legislatively or judicially in the
    future that could adversely affect RJR Tobacco’s ability to
    market any potentially reduced risk product it may develop.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    If RJR Tobacco and Conwood are not efficient in the
    production or distribution of tobacco products, profitability
    could suffer.


 


    RJR Tobacco and Conwood must be efficient in the production and
    distribution of tobacco products in order to be successful in
    highly competitive markets. RJR Tobacco’s and
    Conwood’s ability to gain additional efficiencies may
    become more difficult over time as synergies from the B&W
    business combination and Conwood acquisition are fully realized.
    Failure to reduce costs through productivity gains, cost savings
    projects and outsourcing could have an adverse effect on
    RAI’s profitability.


 


    Increases in commodity prices will increase costs and may
    reduce profitability.


 


    Increases in the cost of tobacco leaf, other raw materials and
    other commodities used in RAI’s operating
    subsidiaries’ products could adversely impact the cost of
    inventory and cause profits to decline.


 


    Changes in market conditions could result in higher costs and
    decreased profitability.


 


    Changes in market conditions could negatively impact RAI’s
    foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and the
    return on corporate cash thus increasing costs and reducing
    profitability.


 


    Adverse changes in liquidity in the financial markets could
    result in additional realized or unrealized losses.


 


    Adverse changes in liquidity in the financial markets could
    result in additional realized or unrealized losses associated
    with the value of RAI’s short-term investments, which would
    negatively impact RAI’s consolidated results of operations,
    financial position and cash flows.


 


    Certain of RAI’s operating subsidiaries may be required
    to write-down intangible assets or goodwill due to impairment,
    thus reducing operating profit.


 


    RAI conducts an impairment review of goodwill and intangible
    assets with indefinite lives at least once a year, or more often
    if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    value of the goodwill or intangible asset may not be
    recoverable. During 2007, RJR Tobacco recorded an impairment
    charge of $33 million and Conwood recorded an impairment of
    $32 million related to the carrying amount of certain
    trademarks. For more information on asset impairment, see
    Item 8, note 3 to consolidated financial statements.


 


    Increases in the cost of pension benefits or pension funding
    may reduce RAI’s profitability and cash flow.


 


    RAI’s profitability is affected by the costs of pension
    benefits available to employees hired prior to January 1,
    2004. Adverse changes in investment returns earned on pension
    assets and discount rates used to calculate pension and related
    liabilities or changes in required pension funding levels may
    have an unfavorable impact on costs and cash flows. RAI actively
    seeks to control increases in pension costs, but there can be no
    assurance that profitability will not be adversely affected. In
    addition, changes to pension legislation or changes in pension
    accounting may adversely affect profitability.


 


    RJR Tobacco relies on outside suppliers to manage information
    technology and other administrative and maintenance functions.
    Any interruption in these services could negatively affect the
    operations of RJR Tobacco and harm its reputation and
    consequently the operations and reputation of RAI.


 


    In an effort to gain cost efficiencies, RJR Tobacco is in the
    process of outsourcing the management of its information
    technology infrastructure, as well as other administrative and
    maintenance functions. If the suppliers fail to perform their
    obligations in a timely manner or at a satisfactory quality
    level, RJR Tobacco may fail to operate effectively and fail to
    meet shipment demand.


 


    RJR Tobacco relies on a limited number of suppliers for
    direct materials. An interruption in service from any of these
    suppliers could adversely affect the results of operations, cash
    flows and financial position of RJR Tobacco, and consequently,
    of RAI.


 


    RJR Tobacco relies on a limited number of suppliers for direct
    materials. If the suppliers fail to meet RJR Tobacco’s
    demand for direct materials, RJR Tobacco may fail to operate
    effectively and may fail to meet shipment demand.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Certain of RAI’s operating subsidiaries face a customer
    concentration risk. The loss of this customer would result in a
    decline in revenue and have an adverse effect on cash flows.


 


    Revenues from McLane Company, Inc., a distributor, comprised 28%
    of RAI’s consolidated revenues in 2007. The loss of this
    customer, or a significant decline in its purchases, could have
    a material adverse effect on revenue of RAI.


 


    Fire, violent weather conditions and other disasters may
    adversely affect the operations of RAI’s operating
    subsidiaries.


 


    A major fire, violent weather conditions or other disasters that
    affect manufacturing and other facilities of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries, or of their suppliers and vendors, could
    have a material adverse effect on the operations of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries. Despite RAI’s insurance coverage
    for some of these events, a prolonged interruption in the
    manufacturing operations of RAI’s operating subsidiaries
    could have a material adverse effect on the ability of its
    operating subsidiaries to effectively operate their businesses.


 


    The agreement relating to RAI’s credit facility contains
    restrictive covenants that may limit the flexibility of RAI and
    its subsidiaries. Breach of those covenants may result in a
    default under the agreement relating to the facility.


 


    Restrictions in the agreement relating to RAI’s credit
    facility could limit the ability of RAI and its subsidiaries to
    obtain future financing, withstand a future downturn in their
    businesses or the economy in general, conduct operations or
    otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may
    arise. In addition, if RAI does not comply with these covenants,
    any indebtedness outstanding under the credit facility could
    become immediately due and payable. The lenders under RAI’s
    credit facility could refuse to lend funds if RAI is not in
    compliance with the covenants or could terminate the credit
    facility. If RAI were unable to repay accelerated amounts, the
    lenders under RAI’s credit facility could initiate a
    bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding, or proceed
    against the collateral securing that indebtedness.


 


    For more information on the restrictive covenants in RAI’s
    credit agreement, see Item 8, note 11 to consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    RAI has substantial debt, which could adversely affect its
    financial position and its ability to obtain financing in the
    future and react to changes in its business.


 


    Because RAI has debt of $4.5 billion:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital,
    capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or
    general corporate purposes, and its ability to satisfy its
    obligations with respect to its indebtedness, may be impaired in
    the future;




 



     
        • 

    
    a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations must be
    dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its
    indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to it for
    other purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    it may be at a disadvantage compared to its competitors with
    less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest
    rates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    its flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and
    ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, and
    it may be more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic
    conditions or its business, or be unable to carry out capital
    spending that is necessary or important to its growth strategy
    and its efforts to improve operating margins.





 


    It is likely that RAI will refinance, or attempt to refinance, a
    significant portion of this indebtedness prior to its maturity
    through the incurrence of new indebtedness. There can be no
    assurance that RAI’s available cash or access to financing
    on acceptable terms will be sufficient to satisfy such
    indebtedness.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of
    servicing RAI’s variable rate indebtedness and could cause
    its annual debt service obligations to increase significantly
    and reduce its profitability.


 


    Certain of RAI’s outstanding notes bear interest at a
    variable rate of interest or have been swapped from a fixed rate
    of interest to a variable rate of interest. Any increase in
    interest rates would increase the cost of servicing RAI’s
    variable rate debt and, consequently, RAI’s profitability
    would decrease. Although RAI currently has no borrowings under
    its credit facility, borrowings under the credit facility also
    would bear interest at a variable or floating rate. For a
    discussion of how RAI manages its exposure to changes in
    interest rates, see Item 8, note 13 to consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    The ability of RAI to access the debt capital markets could
    be impaired because of the credit rating of its debt
    securities.


 


    Certain of the outstanding notes issued by RAI, and all of the
    outstanding notes of RJR, are rated below investment grade.
    Because of these ratings, RAI may not be able to sell additional
    debt securities or borrow money in such amounts, at the times,
    at the lower interest rates or upon the more favorable terms and
    conditions that might be available if its debt was rated
    investment grade. In addition, future debt security issuances or
    other borrowings may be subject to further negative terms,
    including limitations on indebtedness or similar restrictive
    covenants, particularly if RAI’s debt securities ratings
    decline further.


 


    RAI’s credit ratings are influenced by some important
    factors not entirely within the control of RAI or its
    affiliates, such as tobacco litigation, the regulatory
    environment and the performance of suppliers and vendors to
    RAI’s operating subsidiaries. Moreover, because the kinds
    of events and contingencies that may impair RAI’s credit
    rating and the ability of RAI and its affiliates to access the
    debt capital markets are often the same kinds of events and
    contingencies that could cause RAI and its affiliates to seek to
    raise additional capital on an urgent basis, RAI and its
    affiliates may not be able to issue debt securities or borrow
    money upon acceptable terms, or at all, at the times at which
    they may most need additional capital.


 


    For more complete information on RAI’s borrowing
    arrangements, see Item 8, note 11 to consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    B&W’s significant equity interest in RAI could be
    determinative in matters submitted to a vote by RAI
    shareholders, resulting in RAI taking actions that RAI’s
    other shareholders do not support. B&W also has influence
    over RAI by virtue of the governance agreement, which requires
    B&W’s approval before RAI takes certain actions.


 


    B&W owns approximately 42% of the outstanding shares of RAI
    common stock. No other stockholder owns more than 10% of the
    outstanding shares of RAI common stock. Unless substantially all
    of RAI’s public shareholders vote together on matters
    presented to RAI shareholders, B&W would have the power to
    determine the outcome of matters submitted to a shareholder vote.


 


    Moreover, in connection with the B&W business
    combination, RAI, B&W and BAT entered into an agreement,
    referred to as the governance agreement, relating to various
    aspects of RAI’s corporate governance. Under the governance
    agreement, the approval of B&W, as a RAI shareholder, is
    required in connection with, among other things, the following
    matters:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the sale or transfer of certain RAI intellectual property
    associated with B&W brands having an international
    presence, other than in connection with a sale of RAI;




 



     
        • 

    
    RAI’s adoption of any takeover defense measures that would
    apply to the acquisition of equity securities of RAI by B&W
    or its affiliates, other than the adoption of the RAI rights
    plan; and




 



     
        • 

    
    RAI’s participation in any transaction, effected before
    July 30, 2009, that would reasonably be expected to
    jeopardize B&W’s tax ruling obtained in connection
    with, or B&W’s tax-free treatment of, the B&W
    business combination.





 


    Such influence could result in RAI taking actions that
    RAI’s other shareholders do not support.



    
    16



Table of Contents




    Under the governance agreement, B&W is entitled to
    nominate certain persons to RAI’s Board, and the approvals
    of the majority of such persons is required before certain
    actions may be taken, even though such persons represent less
    than a majority of the entire Board. In addition, certain
    provisions of RAI’s articles of incorporation may create
    conflicts of interest between RAI and certain of these
    persons.


 


    Under the governance agreement, B&W, based upon its current
    equity stake in RAI, is entitled to nominate five directors to
    RAI’s Board, at least three of whom are required to be
    independent directors and two of whom may be executive officers
    of BAT or any of its subsidiaries. RAI’s Board currently is
    comprised of 12 persons, including B&W’s five
    designees. Matters requiring the approval of RAI’s Board
    generally require the affirmative vote of a majority of the
    directors present at a meeting. Under the governance agreement,
    however, the approval of a majority of B&W’s designees
    on RAI’s Board is required in connection with the following
    matters:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    any issuance of RAI securities in excess of 5% of its
    outstanding voting stock, unless at such time B&W’s
    ownership interest in RAI is less than 32%; and




 



     
        • 

    
    any repurchase of RAI common stock, subject to a number of
    exceptions, unless at such time B&W’s ownership
    interest in RAI is less than 25%.





 


    As a result, B&W’s designees on RAI’s Board may
    prevent the foregoing transactions from being effected,
    notwithstanding a majority of the entire Board may have voted to
    approve such transactions.


 


    Under RAI’s articles of incorporation, a B&W
    designated director who is affiliated with, or employed by, BAT
    or its subsidiaries and affiliates is not required to present a
    transaction, relationship, arrangement or other opportunity, all
    of which are collectively referred to as a business opportunity,
    to RAI if that business opportunity does not relate primarily to
    the United States.


 


    B&W’s significant ownership interest in RAI, and
    RAI’s shareholder rights plan, classified board of
    directors and other anti-takeover defenses could deter
    acquisition proposals and make it difficult for a third party to
    acquire control of RAI without the cooperation of B&W. This
    could have a negative effect on the price of RAI’s common
    stock.


 


    As RAI’s largest shareholder, B&W could vote its
    shares of RAI common stock against any takeover proposal
    submitted for shareholder approval or refuse to accept any
    tender offer for shares of RAI common stock. This right would
    make it very difficult for a third party to acquire RAI without
    B&W consent. In addition, RAI has a shareholder rights
    plan, a classified board of directors and other takeover
    defenses in its articles of incorporation and bylaws.
    B&W’s ownership interest in RAI and these defenses
    could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay
    or prevent a change in control of RAI. These deterrents could
    adversely affect the price of RAI common stock and make it very
    difficult to remove or replace members of the board of directors
    or management of RAI without cooperation of B&W.


 


    RAI shareholders may be adversely affected by the expiration
    of the standstill and transfer restrictions in the governance
    agreement, which would enable B&W to, among other things,
    transfer all or a significant percentage of its RAI shares to a
    third party, seek additional representation on the RAI board of
    directors, replace existing RAI directors, solicit proxies or
    otherwise acquire effective control of RAI.


 


    The standstill provisions contained in the governance agreement
    generally restrict B&W from acquiring additional shares of
    RAI common stock and taking other specified actions as a
    shareholder of RAI. These restrictions generally will expire
    upon the earlier of ten years from the date of the B&W
    business combination and the date on which a significant
    transaction, as defined in the governance agreement, is
    consummated or occurs.


 


    Subject to the terms of the RAI shareholder rights plan,
    B&W will be free after expiration of the standstill period
    to increase its ownership interest in RAI to more than 50% and
    may use this controlling vote to elect any number of or all the
    members of RAI’s board of directors.


 


    In addition, if the transfer restrictions in the governance
    agreement are terminated, subject to the terms of the RAI
    shareholder rights plan, there will be no contractual
    restrictions on B&W’s ability to sell or transfer its
    shares of RAI common stock on the open market, in privately
    negotiated transactions or otherwise. These sales or transfers
    could create a substantial decline in the price of shares of RAI
    common stock or, if these sales or transfers were made to a
    single buyer or group of buyers that own RAI shares, could
    result in a third party acquiring effective control of RAI.



    
    17



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1B