Item 1A. Risk Factors 
RAI and its subsidiaries operate with certain known risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The risks below are not the only ones that could impact RAI and its subsidiaries. Additional risks not currently known or currently considered immaterial also could affect RAI’s business. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents filed with the SEC. 
Adverse litigation outcomes could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. Additionally, RAI’s operating subsidiaries could be subject to substantial liabilities and bonding difficulties from litigation related to cigarette products or other products, which could also have an adverse effect on their results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 
Reynolds Defendants have been named in a number of tobacco-related legal actions, proceedings or claims. The claimants seek recovery on a variety of legal theories, including negligence, strict liability in tort, design defect, failure to warn, fraud, misrepresentation, deceptive and unfair trade practices, conspiracy, medical monitoring, and violations of state and federal antitrust and racketeering laws. Various forms of relief are sought, including compensatory damages, attorneys’ fees, and, where available, punitive damages in amounts ranging in some cases into the hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars. 
The tobacco-related legal actions range from individual lawsuits to class-actions and other aggregate claim lawsuits. In Engle v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., the Florida Supreme Court issued a ruling that, while determining that the case could not proceed further as a class action, permitted members of the Engle class to file individual claims, including claims for punitive damages, through January 11, 2008. The decision preserved several of the Engle jury findings for use in adjudicating these subsequent individual actions, which are now known as Engle Progeny cases. As of December 31, 2015, RJR Tobacco had been served in 3,111 Engle Progeny cases filed on behalf of approximately 4,046 individual plaintiffs. Many of these cases are in active discovery or nearing trial. In all Engle Progeny cases tried to date, a central issue has been the proper use of the preserved Engle findings. RJR Tobacco has argued that use of the Engle findings to establish individual elements of claims (such as defect, negligence and concealment) is a violation of federal due process. In 2013, both the Florida Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit rejected that argument. 
The Engle Progeny cases have resulted in increased litigation and trial activity, including an increased number of adverse verdicts, and increased expenses. Through December 31, 2015, RJR Tobacco or Lorillard Tobacco cumulatively paid $214.9 million in compensatory and punitive damages and $66.8 million for attorneys’ and statutory interest, for a total of $281.7 million, in these 
13

 
cases. In addition, outstanding jury verdicts in favor of the Engle Progeny plaintiffs had been entered against RJR Tobacco or Lorillard Tobacco in the amount of $184.2 million in compensatory damages (as adjusted) and in the amount of $191.1 million in punitive damages, for a total of $375.3 million. All of these verdicts are in various stages in the appellate process. Although RJR Tobacco cannot currently predict when or how much it may be required to pay, RJR Tobacco will likely be required to pay additional judgments as the litigation proceeds. For a more complete description of this litigation, see “— Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry — Engle and Engle Progeny Cases” in Item 8, note 13 to consolidated financial statements. 
Class-action suits have been filed in a number of states against individual cigarette manufacturers, including RJR Tobacco, and their parents, including RAI, alleging that the use of the terms “lights” and “ultra-lights” constitutes unfair and deceptive trade practices. In 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that neither the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act nor the Federal Trade Commission’s regulation of “tar” and nicotine disclosures preempts (or bars) such claims. This ruling limits certain defenses available to RJR Tobacco and other cigarette manufacturers and has led to the filing of additional lawsuits. In addition, several class actions have been filed against SFNTC and RAI asserting that use of the terms “natural”, “additive-free” and “organic” in the product labeling and advertising for SFNTC’s NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT cigarette brand violates state disclosure, and deceptive and unfair trade practice, statutes. In the event RJR Tobacco, SFNTC or their affiliates and indemnitees lose one or more of the pending class-action suits, they could face, depending upon the amount of any damages ordered, difficulties in their ability to pay the judgment or obtain any bond required to stay execution of the judgment. For a more complete description of class-action litigation, see “— Class-Action Suits” in Item 8, note 13 to consolidated financial statements. 
In 1999, the U.S. Department of Justice bought an action against RJR Tobacco, Lorillard Tobacco, B&W, and other tobacco companies pursuant to the civil provisions of the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, referred to as RICO. The government sought, among other remedies, disgorgement of profits in an amount of approximately $280 billion allegedly earned as a consequence of a RICO racketeering “enterprise” and injunctive relief. In February 2005, an appellate court ruled that disgorgement was not an available remedy. In 2006, the trial court found certain defendants, including RJR Tobacco, liable for the RICO claims (but did not impose any direct financial penalties), enjoined the defendants from committing future racketeering acts, and ordered the defendants to issue “corrective communications” on five subjects, including smoking and health and addiction. The trial court’s “corrective-statements” remedy is subject to continuing proceedings to determine, among other things, whether the “corrective statements” will have to be displayed at retail points-of-sale. Implementation of the “corrective-statements” remedy could cause RJR Tobacco to incur significant compliance costs, and have an adverse effect on the sales of RJR Tobacco’s products. For a more complete description of this litigation, see “— Health-Care Cost Recovery Cases — U.S. Department of Justice Case” in Item 8, note 13 to consolidated financial statements. 
It is likely that legal actions, proceedings and claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes and other tobacco products will continue to be filed against Reynolds Defendants and other tobacco companies for the foreseeable future. 
Victories by plaintiffs in highly publicized cases against RJR Tobacco and other tobacco companies regarding the health effects of smoking may stimulate further claims. A material increase in the number of pending claims could significantly increase defense costs. In addition, adverse outcomes in pending cases could have adverse effects on the ability of RJR Tobacco and its indemnitees, including B&W, to prevail in other smoking and health litigation. 
Any or all of the events described above could impose substantial monetary obligations on RAI and its operating subsidiaries and could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of these companies and RAI. For a more complete description of the above cases and other significant litigation involving RAI and its operating subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco, Lorillard Tobacco and American Snuff Co., see “— Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry” and “— Smokeless Tobacco Litigation” in Item 8, note 13 to consolidated financial statements. 
On June 12, 2015, RAI, through its subsidiaries, acquired Lorillard’s NEWPORT brand, the leading U.S. menthol cigarette brand, resulting in a substantial portion of RAI’s consolidated net sales being attributable to products that contain menthol. Any action by the FDA or any other governmental authority that could have the effect of banning or materially restricting the use of menthol in tobacco products could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its subsidiaries. 
As a result of the Merger, RAI, through its subsidiaries, acquired Lorillard’s NEWPORT brand, the leading U.S. menthol cigarette brand. NEWPORT menthol cigarette styles were added to the brand portfolio of RAI’s operating companies, a portfolio which includes other brands with menthol styles. On a pro forma basis, assuming the Lorillard transactions had occurred on January 1, 2015, RAI estimates that approximately 50% of the combined company’s total net sales through December 31, 2015, would have been attributable to menthol cigarettes, see Item 8, note 2 to consolidated financial statements. 
14

 
In 2013, the FDA issued its preliminary scientific evaluation regarding menthol cigarettes, concluding that menthol cigarettes adversely affect initiation, addiction and cessation compared to non-menthol cigarettes. In 2013, the FDA also issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, seeking comments on various issues relating to the potential regulation of menthol cigarettes. Although it is not possible to predict whether or when the FDA will take actions, if the FDA or any other governmental authority were to adopt regulations banning or severely restricting the use of menthol in tobacco products or the sale of menthol cigarettes, those regulations could have a material adverse effect on sales of the NEWPORT brand, and the menthol styles of other brands in the portfolio of RAI’s operating companies, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its subsidiaries. 
In addition to regulatory action affecting the use of menthol in cigarettes, the FDA could regulate tobacco products in other aspects that could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its subsidiaries. 
The FDA Tobacco Act grants the FDA broad authority over the manufacture, sale, marketing and packaging of tobacco products. The FDA Tobacco Act could result in a decrease in cigarette and smokeless tobacco product sales in the United States, including sales of RJR Tobacco’s, American Snuff Co.’s and SFNTC’s brands, and has resulted in an increase in costs to RJR Tobacco, American Snuff Co. and SFNTC, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI.
The ability of RAI’s operating companies to introduce new tobacco products, a critical component of RAI’s strategy of focusing on innovation to transform the tobacco industry, could be adversely affected by FDA rules and regulations. Under the FDA Tobacco Act, for a manufacturer to launch a new tobacco product or modify an existing tobacco product after March 22, 2011, the manufacturer must obtain an order from the FDA’s “Center for Tobacco Products,” referred to as the CTP, allowing the new or modified product to be marketed. Similarly, a manufacturer that introduced a product between February 15, 2007, and March 22, 2011, was required to file a substantial equivalence report with the CTP demonstrating either (1) that the new or modified product had the same characteristics as a product commercially available as of February 15, 2007, referred to as a predicate product, or (2) if the new or modified product had different characteristics than the predicate product, that it did not raise different questions of public health. A product subject to such report is referred to as a provisional product. A manufacturer may continue to market a provisional product unless and until the CTP issues an order that the provisional product is not substantially equivalent, in which case the FDA could then require the manufacturer to remove the provisional product from the market. On September 15, 2015, the CTP issued four Not Substantially Equivalent orders, referred to as NSE orders, to RJR Tobacco, determining that four cigarette styles are not substantially equivalent to their respective predicate products, and ordering that RJR Tobacco immediately stop all distribution, importation, sale, marketing and promotion of these provisional products. RJR Tobacco has taken action to comply with these NSE orders, and continues to evaluate its options in connection with this matter. Although the sales of the provisional products subject to the foregoing NSE orders are not material to RJR Tobacco, substantially all of RAI’s operating companies’ products currently on the market are provisional products. If the CTP were to issue NSE orders with respect to other provisional products of RAI’s operating companies, such orders, if not withdrawn or invalidated, would have an adverse impact on the sales of the products subject to the orders, and could have an adverse impact on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its subsidiaries.
In addition, the FDA has announced its intention to issue regulations that would bring e-cigarettes within that agency’s jurisdiction, subjecting these products to many of the requirements already in place for cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products. Chief among these requirements would be a decision by the agency to leave the grandfather date of February 15, 2007 in place for e-cigarettes. Given that few, if any, e-cigarettes were on the market as of that date, manufacturers would not be able to rely on filing substantial equivalence applications to keep existing products on the market, but instead would have to file new tobacco product applications with the agency. The adoption of new rules and regulations could make it more difficult for RAI’s operating companies to grow their e-cigarette business which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its subsidiaries.
On August 27, 2015, the FDA sent a warning letter to SFNTC, claiming that SFNTC’s use of the terms “Natural” and “Additive Free” in the product labeling and advertising for NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT cigarettes violates the Modified Risk Tobacco Products provision of the FDA Tobacco Act. On September 18, 2015, SFNTC provided a written response to the FDA, explaining why it believes its use of these terms does not violate the FDA Tobacco Act. SFNTC has not modified the product labeling or advertising for its NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT cigarettes since the receipt of the FDA’s warning letter. If SFNTC ultimately is required by the FDA to delete, or substantially modify, the terms “Natural” and/or “Additive Free” appearing on the labeling and/or advertising of its NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT cigarettes, that requirement could have an adverse effect on the sale of such cigarettes, and on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of SFNTC and RAI. Further, if the FDA determines that the use of those terms violates the FDA Tobacco Act, the FDA could take a variety of enforcement actions against SFNTC, including, without limitation, forcing SFNTC to recall from the market NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT cigarettes bearing such terms, and imposing penalties on SFNTC. The costs that SFNTC would incur in connection with any such enforcement actions could be material. 
15

 
Further, the FDA has the authority to require the reduction of nicotine levels and may also require reduction or elimination of other constituents.
For a detailed description of the FDA Tobacco Act, see “— Governmental Activity” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7. 
Significant monetary obligations imposed under the State Settlement Agreements, the size of which may be impacted by suits challenging several arbitration awards favorable to RJR Tobacco, could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RJR Tobacco and RAI. 
In 1998, RJR Tobacco, Lorillard Tobacco and the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers entered into the MSA with attorneys general representing most U.S. states, territories and possessions. The State Settlement Agreements, of which the MSA is the most wide-reaching, impose a perpetual stream of future payment obligations on RJR Tobacco and the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, and place significant restrictions on their ability to market and sell tobacco products in the future. They have materially adversely affected RJR Tobacco’s shipment volumes, and they are expected to have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RJR Tobacco and RAI in future periods. 
RJR Tobacco and Lorillard Tobacco disputed a total of $5.6 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, in potential MSA non-participating manufacturer adjustment, referred to as the NPM Adjustment, claims for the years 2003 through 2014. A nationwide arbitration, referred to as the Arbitration Panel, was initiated with respect to the 2003 NPM Adjustment claim. Preliminary proceedings before the Arbitration Panel began in July 2010. Merits hearings began in April 2012. 
In December 2012, RJR Tobacco, Lorillard Tobacco, SFNTC and certain other participating manufacturers, referred to as the PMs, and certain “signatory” states entered into a binding Term Sheet that set forth terms for resolving accrued and potential NPM Adjustment claims for 2003 through 2012. The Term Sheet also set forth a restructured NPM Adjustment process to be applied on a going-forward basis, starting with the 2013 volume year. The Arbitration Panel for the 2003 NPM Adjustment dispute entered a Stipulated Partial Settlement and Award, reflecting the financial terms of the Term Sheet. Under the settlement, RJR Tobacco is to receive more than $1.1 billion worth of credits, a portion of which have been applied to its MSA payments in 2013, 2014 and 2015, and the remainder is to be applied over the following two years. 
In September 2013, the Arbitration Panel issued Final Awards on the 2003 NPM Adjustment claim with respect to the 15 states who at that point in the proceedings the PMs continued to contest. The Arbitration Panel ruled that six states (representing approximately 14.68% of the allocable share) — Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, New Mexico and Pennsylvania — were subject to the 2003 NPM Adjustment. Of these six states, two (Kentucky and Indiana) decided to join the settlement, three (Maryland, Missouri and Pennsylvania) unsuccessfully challenged in their respective state courts the finding of their responsibility for the 2003 NPM Adjustment; and one state court challenge (New Mexico) has yet to be decided. Additionally, these four states challenged the amount of the judgment reduction accorded to them by the Arbitration Panel by virtue of the settlement. Two of these challenges (Maryland and Pennsylvania) were successful; and one was not (Missouri). The challenge filed in New Mexico has not yet been decided at the trial court level. 
If the amount of the judgment reduction is ultimately modified in the manner urged by Missouri and New Mexico, RJR Tobacco’s and Lorillard Tobacco’s recovery of the 2003 NPM Adjustment would be reduced by $27 million and $5 million, respectively, in the April following the conclusion of the appeal. In contrast, if RJR Tobacco and Lorillard Tobacco prevail on appeal in Maryland and Pennsylvania, RJR Tobacco and Lorillard Tobacco would receive an additional $75 million and $13 million, respectively, for the 2003 NPM Adjustment in the April following the conclusion of the appeal. 
In light of the fact that three of the non-diligent states (Maryland, Missouri and Pennsylvania) are no longer challenging the findings on non-diligence entered against them, RJR Tobacco has recognized the minimum amount that it has recovered from these three states, a total of approximately $93 million. Remaining amounts that will potentially be recovered from these non-diligent states, depending on the outcome of their challenges to the judgment reduction method adopted by the Arbitration Panel, have not been recognized in RAI’s consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2015, due to the uncertainty over the final resolution of the pending motions and appeals with respect to the judgment reduction issue. No amounts have been recognized with respect to New Mexico given the uncertainty with the pending trial court motions on both the finding of non-diligence and the judgment reduction issue. 
For a more complete description of the State Settlement Agreements and the Arbitration Panel’s awards, see “— Health-Care Cost Recovery Cases — State Settlement Agreements” and “— Health-Care Cost Recovery Cases — State Settlement Agreements — Enforcement and Validity; Adjustments” in Item 8, note 13 to consolidated financial statements. 
16

 
RAI, through its subsidiaries, is dependent on the U.S. cigarette market, which is expected to continue to decline. In addition, RAI is dependent on premium and super-premium cigarette brands. The continued decline in U.S. cigarette consumption, or the transition of consumers away from premium cigarette brands, could have an adverse effect on the consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. 
RAI’s subsidiaries are dependent on the U.S. cigarette market. In connection with the Merger, RAI did not acquire any brands outside of the United States and the assets of Lorillard’s subsidiaries related to the “e-vapor” brand blu (including SKYCIG) were included in the Divestiture. Lorillard, like RAI, previously divested its international cigarette business.
Furthermore, the sale of the international NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT brand to JTI Holding increases the reliance of RAI’s operating subsidiaries on the U.S. cigarette market. In addition, pursuant to the 2015 Purchase Agreement, RAI has agreed not to, and agreed to cause its controlled affiliates not to, engage in the business of producing, selling, distributing and developing natural, organic and additive-free combustible tobacco cigarettes and roll-your-own or make-your-own tobacco products outside of the United States for a period of five years after the closing.
RAI’s subsidiaries’ U.S. combustible cigarette brands include, among others, NEWPORT, CAMEL, PALL MALL and NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT. RAI estimates that its sales in the United States attributable to combustible cigarettes would have represented approximately 90% of RAI’s pro forma 2015 net sales, assuming the Merger and Divestiture had occurred on January 1, 2015. U.S. cigarette consumption has declined since 1981 for a variety of factors including, for example, price increases, restrictions on advertising and promotions, smoking prevention campaigns, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups, and migration to smoke-free products. U.S. consumption is expected to continue to decline. MSAi reported that, on a year-over-year basis, U.S. cigarette shipments declined 0.1% in 2015, 3.2% in 2014 and 4.6% in 2013. 
In addition, RAI’s subsidiaries’ brands are subject to consumer price sensitivities, with certain brands subject to greater price sensitivities than others or competitors’ brands. Some consumers may switch to a lower priced brand than the brands offered by RAI’s subsidiaries. As a result of the acquisition of Lorillard’s subsidiaries’ brands, which principally consist of NEWPORT, RAI’s subsidiaries’ concentration of premium brands increased significantly. As a result, RAI’s subsidiaries are more susceptible to consumer price sensitivities following the Merger. A downturn in the economy or other adverse financial or economic conditions could increase the number of consumers switching to a lower priced brand than any of those offered by RAI’s subsidiaries. 
The continued decline in U.S. cigarette consumption, or the transition of consumers away from premium cigarette brands, could have an adverse effect on the consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. 
If RJR Tobacco and RAI’s other operating companies are not able to develop, produce or market new alternative products profitably, the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its operating subsidiaries could be adversely affected. 
Consumer health concerns, changes in adult tobacco consumer preferences and changes in regulations have prompted RJR Tobacco and other RAI operating companies to introduce new alternative products. Consumer acceptance of these new products, such as CAMEL Snus and e-cigarettes, may fall below expectations, in which event RAI’s operating subsidiaries may be unable to replace all or any significant portion of lost revenues resulting from the continuing decline in cigarette consumption generally. 
Furthermore, while VUSE, RJR Vapor’s e-cigarette product, is currently the number one e-cigarette product sold in convenience/gas stores, sales of closed system products like VUSE continue to decline in comparison to the sale of tanks and liquid nicotine containers typically sold in vapor shops and on-line. The future success of VUSE and other RJR Vapor e-cigarette offerings will depend on the ability to innovate in an evolving category of alternative tobacco products. 
In addition, RAI’s operating companies may not find vendors willing to produce alternative products, or components or raw materials used in such products, resulting in additional capital expenditures for RAI’s operating companies. 
If RJR Tobacco and RAI’s other operating companies are not able to develop, produce or market new alternative products to replace declining cigarette sales, then there could be an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its operating subsidiaries. 
17

 
Competitive actions and pricing pressures in the marketplace could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RJR Tobacco, Santa Fe and American Snuff. 
The tobacco industry is highly competitive. Among the major manufacturers, brands primarily compete on product quality, price, brand recognition, brand imagery and packaging. Substantial marketing support, merchandising display, discounting, promotions and other financial incentives generally are required to maintain or improve a brand’s market position or introduce a new brand. Competitors may also have certain advantages, including stronger financial position and liquidity, enabling them to better withstand the effects of competition and declines in price. 
In addition, substantial payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements adversely affect RJR Tobacco’s ability to compete with manufacturers of deep-discount cigarettes that are not subject to such substantial obligations. For a more complete description of the State Settlement Agreements, see “— Health-Care Cost Recovery Cases — State Settlement Agreements” in Item 8, note 13 to consolidated financial statements. 
Inability to compete effectively may result in loss of market share, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its operating subsidiaries. 
In the United States, tobacco products are subject to substantial and increasing regulation and taxation, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its operating subsidiaries. 
Tobacco products are subject to substantial federal and state excise taxes in the United States. Certain city and county governments also impose substantial excise taxes on tobacco products sold. Over the last several years, these taxing authorities have significantly increased the magnitude of excise taxes on tobacco products. Increased excise taxes have resulted in declines in overall sales volume and shifts by consumers to less expensive brands, and additional increases could result in future sales declines. 
A wide variety of federal, state and local laws limit the advertising, sale and/or use of tobacco products. These laws have proliferated in recent years. For example, some local laws prohibit the sale of certain tobacco products. Another example is that some local laws prohibit certain types of marketing practices, such as consumer coupons. In addition, there are many local laws that prohibit the consumption of cigarettes and other tobacco products in restaurants and other public places. Private businesses also have adopted policies that prohibit or restrict, or are intended to discourage, smoking and tobacco use. These laws and regulations could result in a decline in the overall sales volume of tobacco products, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its operating subsidiaries. For additional information on the issues described above, see “— Governmental Activity” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7. 
Many of RAI’s operating subsidiaries are subject to significant limitations on advertising and marketing of tobacco products, which could harm the value of their existing brands and their ability to launch new brands, and could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of these companies and RAI. 
In the United States, television and radio advertisements of cigarettes have been prohibited since 1971, and television and radio advertisements of smokeless tobacco products have been prohibited since 1986. Under the MSA, RAI’s operating subsidiaries, RJR Tobacco and SFNTC, cannot use billboard advertising, cartoon characters, sponsorship of certain events, non-tobacco merchandise bearing their brand names and various other advertising and marketing techniques. The MSA also prohibits targeting of youth in advertising, promotion or marketing of tobacco products, including the smokeless tobacco products of RJR Tobacco. American Snuff Co. is not a participant in the MSA. Although these restrictions were intended to ensure that tobacco advertising was not aimed at young people, some of the restrictions also may limit the ability of RAI’s operating subsidiaries to communicate with adult tobacco consumers. In addition, pursuant to the FDA Tobacco Act, the FDA has reissued regulations addressing advertising and marketing restrictions that were originally promulgated in 1996. Additional restrictions under the FDA regulations, or otherwise, may be imposed or agreed to in the future. These limitations on the advertising and marketing of tobacco products inhibit RAI’s operating subsidiaries from promoting and maintaining the value of their existing brands and limit their ability to launch new brands, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of these companies and RAI. 
Changes in and compliance with state or federal legislation or regulations could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its subsidiaries. 
In addition to FDA regulation, the passage of new legislative or regulatory initiatives including those relating to U.S. health-care reform, climate change and other environmental legislation and changes in federal or state wage requirements, could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its subsidiaries. RAI and its subsidiaries regularly assess the impact that health-care reform could have on its employer-sponsored medical plans. Due to the breadth and complexity of the health-care reform legislation, the current lack of implementation regulations and interpretive guidance and the phased-in nature of 
18

 
the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact. The passage of new legislative or regulatory initiatives may increase compliance costs, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its subsidiaries. 
Increases in commodity prices will increase costs and may reduce profitability, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its operating subsidiaries. 
Increases in the cost of tobacco leaf, other raw materials and other commodities used in RAI’s operating subsidiaries’ products could cause profits to decline which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its operating subsidiaries. 
Certain of RAI’s operating subsidiaries may be required to write down intangible assets, including goodwill, due to impairment, thus reducing operating profit. 
Intangible assets include goodwill, trademarks and other intangibles. The determination of fair value involves considerable estimates and judgment. For goodwill, the determination of fair value of a reporting unit involves, among other things, RAI’s market capitalization, and application of the income approach, which includes developing forecasts of future cash flows and determining an appropriate discount rate. If goodwill impairment is implied, the fair values of individual assets and liabilities, including unrecorded intangibles, must be determined. During the annual testing in the fourth quarter of 2015, the estimated fair value of each of RAI’s reporting units was substantially in excess of its respective carrying value. 
Trademarks and other intangible assets with indefinite lives also are tested for impairment annually, in the fourth quarter. At December 31, 2015, the aggregate fair value of RAI’s operating units’ trademarks and other intangible assets was substantially in excess of their aggregate carrying value. However, at December 31, 2015, as a result of the Merger, the individual fair values of four trademarks were less than 15% in excess of their respective carrying values. The aggregate carrying value of these four trademarks was $27.2 billion at December 31, 2015. 
The methodology used to determine the fair value of trademarks includes assumptions with inherent uncertainty, including projected sales volumes and related projected revenues, long-term growth rates, royalty rates that a market participant might assume and judgments regarding the factors to develop an applied discount rate. 
The carrying value of intangible assets is at risk of impairment if future projected revenues or long-term growth rates are lower than those currently projected, or if factors used in the development of a discount rate result in the application of a higher discount rate. 
Goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets are tested more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The carrying value of these intangible assets could be impaired if a significant adverse change in the use, life, or brand strategy of the asset is determined, or if a significant adverse change in the legal and regulatory environment, business or competitive climate occurs that would adversely impact the asset. 
For additional information, see Item 8, note 4 to consolidated financial statements. 
Increases in pension expense or pension funding may reduce RAI’s profitability, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. 
RAI’s profitability is affected by the costs of pension benefits available to employees generally hired prior to 2004. Adverse changes in investment returns earned on pension assets and discount rates used to calculate pension and related obligations or changes in required pension funding levels may have an unfavorable impact on pension cost, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. RAI contributed $18 million to its pension plans in 2015. During 2016, RAI expects to contribute $335 million to its pension plans, of which $325 million was contributed in January 2016. RAI actively seeks to control increases in pension cost, but there can be no assurance that profitability will not be adversely affected. In addition, changes to pension legislation or changes in pension accounting may adversely affect profitability, which could also have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. 
RAI may have to make additional contributions beyond what is currently contemplated to fund its pension and other postretirement benefit plans. 
For additional information, see Item 8, note 16 to consolidated financial statements. 
19

 
RAI and its operating subsidiaries rely on outside suppliers to manage certain non-core business processes. Any interruption in these services could negatively affect the operations of RJR Tobacco, SFNTC and American Snuff Co. and harm their reputation, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of these companies and RAI. 
In an effort to gain cost efficiencies, RAI and its operating subsidiaries have completed the outsourcing of many of their non-core business processes. Non-core business processes include, but are not limited to, certain processes relating to information technology, human resources, trucking and facilities. If any of the suppliers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at a satisfactory quality level, RJR Tobacco, SFNTC and American Snuff Co. may fail to operate effectively and fail to meet shipment demand, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of these companies and RAI. 
RAI’s operating subsidiaries rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials. An interruption in service from any of these suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. 
RAI’s operating subsidiaries rely on a limited number of suppliers for raw materials. If a supplier fails to meet any of RAI’s operating subsidiaries’ demands for raw materials, any such operating subsidiary may fail to operate effectively and may fail to meet shipment demand, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. 
Certain of RAI’s operating subsidiaries face a customer concentration risk. The loss of such a customer would result in a decline in revenue and could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. 
Revenues from two distributors, McLane and Core-Mark, constituted approximately 28% and 10%, respectively, of RAI’s consolidated revenue in 2015. The loss of these customers, or a significant decline in their purchases, could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. 
Fire, violent weather conditions and other disasters could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI’s operating subsidiaries. 
A major fire, violent weather conditions or other disasters that affect manufacturing and other facilities of RAI’s operating subsidiaries, or of their suppliers and vendors, could have a material adverse effect on the operations of RAI’s operating subsidiaries. In particular (except for the manufacturing of cigarettes by Imperial Sub pursuant to the reciprocal manufacturing agreement described below), RJR Tobacco’s cigarette manufacturing is conducted primarily at a single facility. Additionally, SFNTC’s cigarette manufacturing is conducted at a single facility. Despite RAI’s insurance coverage for some of these events, a prolonged interruption in the manufacturing operations of RAI’s operating subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on the ability of its operating subsidiaries to effectively operate their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of these companies. 
The loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its subsidiaries. 
The future success of RAI and its subsidiaries is dependent on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. The loss of any executive officers or other key senior management personnel could inhibit the ability of RAI and its subsidiaries to effectively manage their businesses. In addition, recruiting and retaining qualified personnel may be difficult given the health and social issues associated with the tobacco industry. If RAI and its subsidiaries are unable to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel to maintain the current businesses of these companies and support development of new products, it could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of these companies. 
Disruptions in information technology systems or a security breach could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its subsidiaries. 
RAI and its subsidiaries are dependent on information technology systems to operate and manage all aspects of their businesses, including, without limitation, to comply with regulatory, legal, financial reporting and tax requirements, and to collect and store confidential information.   Such confidential information may include proprietary business information, and what is often referred to as “personally identifiable information,” or certain information about individuals (such as employees and, in the case of RAI’s subsidiaries, consumers).  The use and handling of personally identifiable information is subject to developing regulations, which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and the cost of regulatory compliance may be significant.
20

 
RAI and its subsidiaries also rely on third party vendors to operate their information technology and to perform certain services for the companies. Certain of these vendors store, process or otherwise handle confidential information, including personally identifiable information.  
RAI’s and its subsidiaries’ information technology systems, and the systems of their vendors, may not function as intended, and may be vulnerable to damage, interruption, or shutdown from a variety of events, such as computer system and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, user errors and catastrophic events. Cybersecurity threats, which are constantly evolving, also pose a risk to the security and viability of RAI’s and its subsidiaries’ information technology systems, and the systems of their vendors.  Security breaches could be committed by third parties intending to access, misappropriate or corrupt confidential information and personally identifiable information, or otherwise to disrupt the business of RAI and its subsidiaries.  Any interruptions, failures or breaches of RAI’s and its subsidiaries’ information technology systems, or the systems of their vendors, could result in: the loss of revenue and customers; transaction errors and processing inefficiencies; the loss or unauthorized disclosure of, or damage to, confidential and personally identifiable information and/or other assets; damage to the reputation of RAI and its subsidiaries and to the brands of those subsidiaries; litigation and regulatory enforcement actions; and increased costs.  Any of these events could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its subsidiaries. 
Inability to protect the intellectual property rights of RAI and its operating subsidiaries could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of these companies. 
RAI and its operating subsidiaries rely on a combination of trademark laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements to protect their intellectual property rights. Although a substantial amount of resources have been devoted to the establishment and protection of intellectual property, these steps may be inadequate to deter misappropriation. Failure to protect sufficiently intellectual property could affect the ability of RAI and its operating subsidiaries to compete effectively and could harm the value of these subsidiaries’ brands. In addition, defending intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. These events could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI and its operating subsidiaries. 
RJR Tobacco will be reliant on Imperial Sub to manufacture NEWPORT on RJR Tobacco’s behalf for a period of time, and RJR Tobacco will manufacture WINSTON, KOOL and SALEM on Imperial Sub’s behalf. RJR Tobacco’s reliance on Imperial Sub for the manufacture of NEWPORT will subject RAI and RJR Tobacco to risks and uncertainties to which it would not otherwise be subject, and Imperial Sub’s inability to manufacture NEWPORT as required could adversely affect RAI and RJR Tobacco’s results of operations, cash flows, financial position and ability to realize any or all of the synergies expected as a result of the Merger and Divestiture. 
RJR Tobacco and Imperial Sub entered into a reciprocal manufacturing agreement at the closing of the Merger and the Divestiture, pursuant to which for a period of up to two years, subject to extension as provided therein, Imperial Sub will manufacture NEWPORT, KENT, OLD GOLD and TRUE on RJR Tobacco’s behalf and RJR Tobacco will manufacture WINSTON, KOOL and SALEM on Imperial Sub’s behalf. Reliance on Imperial Sub for the manufacture of NEWPORT will subject RAI and RJR Tobacco to risks and uncertainties to which it would not be subject if RJR Tobacco manufactured NEWPORT itself, including, among others: 




 

·

reduced control over the manufacturing process and quality control; 




 

·

disruptions to Imperial Sub’s operations and the production of NEWPORT caused by conditions unrelated to RAI’s and its subsidiaries’ businesses or operations, including disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, strikes or other work stoppages at the Imperial Sub plant that manufactures NEWPORT or the occurrence of a catastrophic event affecting Imperial Sub; and 




 

·

loss of market share and reputational harm to RAI and RJR Tobacco in the event a disruption of the production of NEWPORT by Imperial Sub results in insufficient supply. 
In addition, Imperial Sub may not transition the manufacturing of WINSTON, KOOL and SALEM to the Greensboro plant acquired by Imperial Sub in the Divestiture as quickly as currently contemplated. 
If Imperial Sub fails to or is unable to perform under the reciprocal manufacturing agreement, RAI’s and RJR Tobacco’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected, and there could be a delay to RAI and RJR Tobacco’s ability to realize any or all of the synergies expected as a result of the Merger and Divestiture. 
21

 
RAI is obligated to indemnify Imperial Sub for specified matters and to retain certain liabilities related to the divested brands and other assets. 
Under the Asset Purchase Agreement, RAI will indemnify Imperial Sub against losses arising from, among other things, breaches of representations and warranties, breaches of covenants, assets excluded from the transaction, excluded liabilities, certain specific tobacco liabilities, certain assumed plaintiff fees, certain employment related obligations, and liabilities in connection with certain tobacco litigation, settlement and regulatory matters. The Asset Purchase Agreement does not cap RAI’s indemnification obligations, except with respect to any indemnification arising from breaches of certain representations and warranties or pre-closing covenants. Accordingly, these indemnification obligations could be substantial and could have an adverse effect on RAI’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 
RAI may fail to realize the expected synergies and other benefits of the Merger, which could adversely affect the value of RAI common stock. 
The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on RAI’s ability to realize the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the businesses of RAI and Lorillard and their respective subsidiaries and affiliates. RAI’s ability to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings is subject to certain risks, including the following: 




 

·

the ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses of RAI, Lorillard and their respective subsidiaries; 




 

·

RAI’s ability to reduce its level of indebtedness in a timely manner following the Merger; and 




 

·

the ability to successfully transition manufacturing of NEWPORT from Lorillard’s manufacturing facility to RJR Tobacco’s manufacturing facility when and as expected. 
If RAI is not able to successfully combine the businesses of RAI, Lorillard and their respective subsidiaries within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected synergies and other benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected, the combined businesses may not perform as expected and the value of RAI common stock may be adversely affected. In addition, if RAI is unable to timely reduce its level of indebtedness following the Merger, RAI will be subject to increased demands on its cash resources and tightening financial covenants under its revolving credit agreement, which could result in a breach of the covenants or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. 
SFNTC is obligated to indemnify JTI Holding for certain liabilities relating to specified pre-sale statements made by the disposed-of entities relating to NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT brand cigarettes consumed outside the United States.
Under the 2015 Purchase Agreement, SFNTC and two other RAI subsidiaries will indemnify JTI Holding against liabilities resulting from breaches of representations, warranties, or covenants; certain pre-sale debts of the disposed-of entities; the operation of the NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT brand business in the United States; and liabilities arising from either personal injury actions commenced on or before January 13, 2019, or other actions commenced on or before January 13, 2021, where such actions are based on pre-sale statements by the disposed-of entities that NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT brand cigarettes intended to be consumed outside the United States were natural, organic, or additive free.  The 2015 Purchase Agreement does not cap these indemnification obligations, except with respect to breaches of representations or warranties.  Accordingly, these indemnification obligations could be substantial and could have an adverse effect on RAI’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position.
Changes in financial market conditions, including adverse changes in the liquidity of financial markets, could result in higher costs and decreased profitability, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. 
Changes in financial market conditions, including adverse changes in the liquidity of financial markets, could result in additional realized or unrealized losses associated with the value of RAI’s investments. Additionally, these changes could negatively impact RAI’s interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and the return on corporate cash, resulting in increased costs and reduced profitability. Accordingly, the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI could be adversely affected. Due to recent market conditions, RAI has invested any excess cash in either low interest or near zero interest investments, thereby lowering interest income. As of December 31, 2015, $24 million of unrealized losses remain in other comprehensive loss. For more information on investment losses, see Item 8, note 3 to consolidated financial statements. 
22

 
RAI and RJR Tobacco have substantial long-term debt, including the debt assumed and incurred in connection with the Merger, which could adversely affect its financial position and its ability to obtain financing in the future and react to changes in its business. 
Following completion of the Merger, RAI substantially increased its consolidated indebtedness compared to its recent historical indebtedness. As of December 31, 2015, RAI and RJR Tobacco had, in the aggregate, principal outstanding notes of $16.7 billion and $377 million, respectively. 
Because of this increased level of debt as a result of the Merger: 




 

·

RAI’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes, and its ability to satisfy its obligations with respect to its indebtedness, may be impaired in the future; 




 

·

a substantial portion of RAI’s cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to it for other purposes; 




 

·

RAI may be at a disadvantage compared to its competitors with less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and 




 

·

RAI’s flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, and it may be more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or its business, or be unable to carry out capital spending that is necessary or important to its growth strategy and its efforts to improve operating margins. 
For more information on RAI’s long-term debt, see Item 8, note 12 to consolidated financial statements. 
The agreement relating to RAI’s credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit the flexibility of RAI and its subsidiaries. Breach of those covenants could result in a default under the agreement relating to the facility. 
Restrictions in the agreement relating to RAI’s credit facility limit the ability of RAI and its subsidiaries to obtain future financing, and could impact the ability to withstand a future downturn in their businesses or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, if RAI does not comply with these covenants, any indebtedness outstanding under the credit facility could become immediately due and payable. The lenders under RAI’s credit facility could refuse to lend funds if RAI is not in compliance with the covenants or could terminate the credit facility. If RAI were unable to repay accelerated amounts, the lenders under RAI’s credit facility could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding. 
For more information on the restrictive covenants in RAI’s credit facility, see Item 8, note 11 to consolidated financial statements. 
The ability of RAI to access the debt capital markets could be impaired if the credit rating of its debt securities falls. Borrowing costs under RAI’s revolving credit facility could increase as the credit ratings of RAI’s long-term debt falls. 
RAI’s credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, RAI’s cost of capital. As of December 31, 2015, the outstanding notes issued by RAI were rated investment grade. Following the close of the Merger, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services reaffirmed all of its ratings on RAI, including its BBB- corporate credit ratings, and Moody’s Investor Service downgraded RAI’s Baa2 senior unsecured debt rating one notch, to Baa3. If RAI’s credit rating falls further, RAI may not be able to sell additional debt securities or borrow money in such amounts, at the times, at the lower interest rates or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might be available if its debt maintained its current or higher ratings. In addition, future debt security issuances or other borrowings may be subject to further negative terms, including provisions for collateral or limitations on indebtedness or more restrictive covenants, if RAI’s credit ratings decline. 
RAI’s credit ratings are influenced by some important factors not entirely within the control of RAI or its affiliates, such as tobacco litigation, the regulatory environment and the performance of suppliers to RAI’s operating subsidiaries. Moreover, because the kinds of events and contingencies that may impair RAI’s credit ratings and the ability of RAI and its affiliates to access the debt capital markets are often the same kinds of events and contingencies that could cause RAI and its affiliates to seek to raise additional capital on an urgent basis, RAI and its affiliates may not be able to issue debt securities or borrow money with acceptable terms, or at all, at the times at which they may most need additional capital. 
23

 
In addition, the interest rate RAI pays on borrowings under its revolving credit facility is equal to an underlying interest rate plus an applicable margin, which margin is based on the ratings of RAI’s senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness. If these ratings decline, the applicable margin RAI is required to pay would increase. RAI pays a fee on commitments under its revolving credit facility based on the ratings of RAI’s senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness. As a result, although the revolving credit facility provides RAI with a source of liquidity, the cost of borrowing under, and of maintaining, that facility could be at a higher rate at a time when RAI most needs to utilize that facility. 
For more complete information on RAI’s borrowing arrangements and long-term debt, see Item 8, notes 11 and 12 to consolidated financial statements. 
RAI may have to reduce its indebtedness in order to remain in compliance with a covenant under its revolving credit facility. There is no guarantee RAI will be able to reduce its indebtedness in the amount or at the times needed to maintain compliance, which could result in a default under the revolving credit facility.
Under the revolving credit facility, RAI’s consolidated leverage ratio (as defined therein) may not exceed:




 

·

3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, referred to as a Reference Period, ending prior to the closing of the Merger;




 

·

4.50 to 1.00 for the Reference Periods ending on the last day of each of RAI’s fiscal quarters ending on June 30, September 30, and December 31, 2015;




 

·

4.25 to 1.00 for the Reference Periods ending on the last day of each of RAI’s fiscal quarters ending on March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2016;




 

·

3.75 to 1.00 for the Reference Periods ending on the last day of each of RAI’s fiscal quarters ending on December 31, 2016, and March 31, and June 30, 2017; and




 

·

3.50 to 1.00 thereafter.
Since the leverage ratio becomes more restrictive as time passes after the completion of the Merger, RAI may need to reduce its indebtedness in order to remain in compliance with the covenant. There is no guarantee that RAI will be able to reduce its indebtedness in the amount or at the times needed, which could result in RAI defaulting under the revolving credit facility. In such event, the agents or lenders under the revolving credit facility could exercise remedies, including acceleration of any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility or termination of the facility, which could have a material negative effect on RAI’s financial position.
An adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI or its operating subsidiaries could cause RAI’s Board to depart from or change its historical dividend policy. 
RAI’s Board could, at its discretion, depart from or change its dividend policy at any time. RAI is not required to pay dividends and its shareholders do not have contractual or other legal rights to receive them. RAI’s ability to pay dividends is dependent on its earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, expected cash needs, debt covenant compliance and other factors considered relevant by RAI’s Board. To the extent that RAI or its operating subsidiaries experience an adverse effect on their results of operations, cash flows or financial position, RAI’s Board may decide, at its discretion, to decrease the amount of dividends, change or revoke the dividend policy or discontinue paying dividends entirely. In addition, if RAI does not pay or reduces its historical dividend rate, the market price of its common stock could decline. 
BAT’s significant beneficial equity interest in RAI could be determinative in matters submitted to a vote by RAI shareholders, resulting in RAI taking actions that RAI’s other shareholders do not support. BAT and B&W also have influence over RAI by virtue of the governance agreement, which requires B&W’s approval before RAI takes certain actions. 
BAT, through its subsidiaries, beneficially owns approximately 42% of the outstanding shares of RAI common stock. No other shareholder owns more than 10% of the outstanding shares of RAI common stock. Unless substantially all of RAI’s public shareholders vote together on matters presented to RAI shareholders, BAT, through its subsidiaries, would have the power to determine the outcome of matters submitted to a shareholder vote, subject to the governance agreement described below. 
24

 
Moreover, in connection with the B&W business combination, RAI, B&W and BAT entered into an agreement, referred to as the governance agreement, relating to various aspects of RAI’s corporate governance. Under the governance agreement, the approval of B&W, as a RAI shareholder, is required in connection with, among other things, the following matters: 




 

·

the sale or transfer of certain RAI intellectual property associated with B&W brands having an international presence, other than in connection with a sale of RAI; and 




 

·

RAI’s adoption of any takeover defense measures that would apply to the acquisition of equity securities of RAI by BAT or its affiliates, other than a re-adoption of the RAI rights plan in the form permitted by the governance agreement. 
Such influence could result in RAI taking actions that RAI’s other shareholders do not support. 
Under the governance agreement, B&W is entitled to nominate individuals to RAI’s Board, and the approvals of the majority of those individuals is required before certain actions may be taken, even though those individuals represent less than a majority of the entire Board. 
Under the governance agreement, B&W, based upon the current beneficial ownership of BAT through its subsidiaries, is entitled to nominate five directors to RAI’s Board, at least three of whom are required to be independent directors and two of whom may be executive officers of BAT or any of its subsidiaries. RAI’s Board currently is composed of 13 persons, including five designees of B&W, the maximum number of designees that B&W is entitled to nominate under the governance agreement. Matters requiring the approval of RAI’s Board generally require the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting. Under the governance agreement, however, the approval of a majority of B&W’s designees on RAI’s Board is required in connection with the following matters: 




 

·

any issuance of RAI equity securities in excess of 5% of its outstanding voting stock, unless at such time BAT and its subsidiaries’ ownership interest in RAI is less than 32%; and 




 

·

any repurchase of RAI common stock, subject to a number of exceptions, unless at such time BAT and its subsidiaries’ ownership interest in RAI is less than 25%. 
As a result, B&W’s designees on RAI’s Board may prevent the foregoing transactions from being effected, notwithstanding a majority of the entire Board may have voted to approve such transactions. 
Under the RAI articles of incorporation, neither BAT nor any director of RAI who is affiliated with, or employed by, BAT is required to present a business opportunity to RAI if the business opportunity does not primarily relate to the United States. The loss of favorable business opportunities could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, under the RAI articles of incorporation, neither BAT or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates nor any director of RAI who is affiliated with, or employed by, BAT or its subsidiaries and affiliates, including any B&W designated director, is required to present a transaction, relationship, arrangement or other opportunity, all of which are collectively referred to as a business opportunity to RAI, RAI’s Board or any RAI officer or employee if the business opportunity does not relate primarily to the United States. RAI has renounced any expectancy or interest in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, any such business opportunity, and BAT and its subsidiaries and affiliates are entitled to act upon any such business opportunity and will not be liable to RAI or any RAI shareholders for taking any such action or not presenting such business opportunity to RAI. As a result, RAI may not be presented with certain favorable business opportunities that are known to BAT or a BAT affiliated director of RAI, and BAT may take advantage and receive the benefits of those business opportunities. The loss of favorable business opportunities could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI. 
BAT’s significant beneficial ownership interest in RAI, and RAI’s classified board of directors and other anti-takeover defenses could deter acquisition proposals and make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of RAI without the cooperation of BAT. This could have a negative effect on the price of RAI common stock. 
BAT, through its subsidiaries, could vote its shares of RAI common stock against any takeover proposal submitted for shareholder approval or refuse to accept any tender offer for shares of RAI common stock. As a result, it would make it very difficult for a third party to acquire RAI without BAT consent. In addition, RAI has a classified board of directors and other takeover defenses in its articles of incorporation and bylaws. BAT’s beneficial ownership interest in RAI and these defenses could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of RAI. These deterrents could adversely affect the price of RAI common stock and make it very difficult to remove or replace members of the board of directors or management of RAI without cooperation of BAT. 
25

 
RAI shareholders may be adversely affected by the July 30, 2014 expiration of the “standstill” provisions in the governance agreement. This event enables BAT and its subsidiaries to, among other things, acquire some or all of the shares of RAI common stock not held by BAT and its subsidiaries or otherwise seek to influence or gain control of RAI, subject to governance agreement limitations on changes in the composition of RAI’s Board. 
The “standstill” provisions contained in the governance agreement generally restricted BAT and its subsidiaries from acquiring additional shares of RAI common stock, seeking to remove RAI directors not designated by B&W, or taking other specified actions to influence or gain control of RAI. These restrictions expired on July 30, 2014. 
As a consequence of the expiration of the “standstill” period, BAT and its subsidiaries are permitted to increase their ownership interest in RAI without limitation. The RAI shareholder rights plan also expired on July 30, 2014, but RAI’s Board is permitted under the governance agreement to readopt a shareholder rights plan in the form permitted by the governance agreement. 
The governance agreement limits B&W representation on RAI’s Board to five directors (out of an entire Board of 13 directors), of whom at least three must be independent of both RAI and BAT. If the voting percentage of BAT and its subsidiaries in RAI drops below 32%, B&W’s board representation will be reduced to a level approximately proportionate to its level of all RAI equity ownership. The governance agreement also requires BAT and its subsidiaries to vote for the RAI board-proposed slate of director nominees (unless an unaffiliated third party makes a material effort to solicit proxies voting against that slate). These provisions will remain in effect indefinitely after July 30, 2014, unless all or part of the governance agreement is terminated as described below. 
The governance agreement and amendments thereto are filed as Exhibits 10.13 to 10.16 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
RAI shareholders may be adversely affected if all or part of the governance agreement were to be terminated because in some circumstances the board composition and share transfer restrictions on BAT and its subsidiaries would no longer apply. These developments could enable BAT and its subsidiaries to, among other things, acquire some or all of the shares of RAI common stock not held by BAT and its subsidiaries, seek additional representation on RAI’s Board, replace existing RAI directors, solicit proxies, otherwise influence or gain control of RAI or transfer all or a significant percentage of their shares of RAI common stock to a third party. 
The governance agreement provides that it will terminate automatically in its entirety if BAT and its subsidiaries own less than 15% or if any third party or group controls more than 50% of the voting power of all RAI shares. In addition, BAT and B&W may terminate the governance agreement in its entirety if B&W nominees proposed in accordance with the governance agreement are not elected to serve on RAI’s Board or its committees or if RAI has deprived B&W nominees of such representation for “fiduciary” reasons or has willfully deprived B&W or its board nominees of any veto rights. 
BAT and B&W also may terminate the obligation to vote their shares of RAI common stock for Board-proposed director nominees, the restriction on Board representation in excess of proportionate representation and the RAI share transfer restrictions of the governance agreement if RAI willfully and deliberately breaches the provisions regarding B&W’s Board and Board committee representation. 
If the share transfer restrictions in the governance agreement are terminated, there will be no contractual restrictions on the ability of BAT and its subsidiaries to sell or transfer their shares of RAI common stock on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. These sales or transfers could create a substantial decline in the price of shares of RAI common stock or, if these sales or transfers were made to a single buyer or group of buyers that own shares of RAI common stock, could result in a third party acquiring control of or influence over RAI. 
The bylaws of RAI designate the state courts of North Carolina or the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina as the sole and exclusive forum for certain legal actions, which could limit the ability of RAI shareholders to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with RAI. 
RAI’s bylaws provide that, unless RAI consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the state courts of North Carolina or the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina will be the sole and exclusive forum for: 




 

·

any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of RAI; 




 

·

any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of RAI to RAI or its shareholders; 
26

 




 

·

any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the North Carolina Business Corporation Act, the bylaws or the articles of incorporation of RAI (as each may be amended from time to time); or  




 

·

any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. 
Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of RAI’s capital stock may be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions described above. This forum selection provision may limit RAI shareholders’ ability to obtain a judicial forum that they find favorable for certain disputes with RAI or its directors, officers or other employees or shareholders.
 
 
Item 1B