Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    RAI and its subsidiaries operate with certain known risks and
    uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on their
    results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The
    risks below are not the only ones RAI and its subsidiaries face.
    Additional risks not currently known or currently considered
    immaterial also could affect RAI’s business. You should
    carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with
    other information included in this Annual Report of
    Form 10-K.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    RAI’s operating subsidiaries could be subject to
    substantial liabilities and bonding difficulties from litigation
    related to cigarette products or smokeless tobacco products,
    thereby reducing operating margins and cash flows from
    operations. Adverse litigation outcomes could have a negative
    impact on RAI’s ability to continue to operate due to their
    impact on cash flows.


 


    RJR Tobacco, the Conwood companies and their affiliates,
    including RAI, and indemnitees, including B&W, have been
    named in a large number of tobacco-related legal actions,
    proceedings or claims. The claimants seek recovery on a variety
    of legal theories, including negligence, strict liability in
    tort, design defect, fraud, misrepresentation, unfair trade
    practices and violations of state and federal antitrust laws.
    Various forms of relief are sought, including compensatory and,
    where available, punitive damages in amounts ranging in some
    cases into the hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars.


 


    The tobacco-related legal actions range from individual lawsuits
    to
    class-actions
    and other aggregate claim lawsuits. In particular,
    class-action
    suits have been filed in a number of states against individual
    cigarette manufacturers, including RJR Tobacco, alleging that
    the use of the terms “lights” and “ultra
    lights” constitutes unfair and deceptive trade practices.
    Many of these “lights” cases were stayed pending
    review of the Good v. Altria Group, Inc. case by the
    U.S. Supreme Court. On December 15, 2008, the
    U.S. Supreme Court decided that these claims are not
    preempted by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act
    or by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission’s, referred to as
    FTC, historic regulation of the industry. In light of this
    decision, it is likely that the stayed cases will be activated,
    additional cases may go to trial, new cases will be filed and
    defense costs will increase. In the event RJR Tobacco and its
    affiliates and indemnitees lose one or more of the pending
    “lights”
    class-action
    suits, RJR Tobacco, depending upon the amount of any damages
    ordered, could face difficulties in obtaining the bond required
    to stay execution of the judgment. For a more complete
    description of these cases, see
    “— Class-Action
    Suits —  ‘Lights’ Cases” in
    Item 8, note 16 to consolidated financial statements.


 


    In addition, in Engle v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et
    al. (Circuit Court, Dade County, Florida, filed May 5,
    1994), the Florida Supreme Court issued a ruling that, among
    other things, determined that the case could not proceed further
    as a class action. The ruling also permitted members of the
    Engle class to file individual claims, including claims
    for punitive damages, through January 11, 2008. RJR Tobacco
    refers to these cases as the Engle Progeny Cases.
    Although the final number of Engle Progeny Cases is not
    yet known, RJR Tobacco has been served in 3,156 cases on behalf
    of approximately 8,808 plaintiffs. The Engle Progeny
    Cases will result in increased litigation activity, including an
    increased number of trials in 2009, and increased expenses. For
    a more complete description of the Engle Progeny cases,
    see “— Engle Progeny Cases” in Item 8,
    note 16 to consolidated financial statements.


 


    It is likely that similar legal actions, proceedings and claims
    arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development,
    advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes
    and smokeless tobacco products will continue to be filed against
    RJR Tobacco, the Conwood companies, or their affiliates and
    indemnitees and other tobacco companies for the foreseeable
    future.


 


    Victories by plaintiffs in highly publicized cases against RJR
    Tobacco and other tobacco companies regarding the health effects
    of smoking may stimulate further claims. A material increase in
    the number of pending claims could significantly increase
    defense costs. In addition, adverse outcomes in pending cases
    could have adverse effects on the ability of RJR Tobacco and its
    indemnitees, including B&W, to prevail in other smoking and
    health litigation.


 


    For a more complete description of the litigation involving RAI
    and its operating subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco and the
    Conwood companies, see “— Litigation Affecting
    the Cigarette Industry” and “— Smokeless
    Tobacco Litigation” in Item 8, note 16 to
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    As a result of the order issued in a case brought by the
    U.S. Department of Justice, RJR Tobacco could be subject to
    additional, substantial marketing restrictions, which would
    negatively impact revenue, increase related compliance costs and
    reduce operating margins of RJR Tobacco, and, consequently of
    RAI.


 


    In September 1999, the U.S. Department of Justice brought
    an action against RJR Tobacco, B&W and other tobacco
    companies. The government sought, in addition to other remedies,
    pursuant to the civil provisions of RICO, disgorgement of
    profits the government contends were earned as a consequence of
    a RICO racketeering



    
    11



Table of Contents




    “enterprise.” In August 2006, the court found certain
    defendants, including RJR Tobacco, liable for the RICO claims,
    but did not impose any direct financial penalties. Instead, the
    court, among other things, enjoined the defendants from
    committing future racketeering acts, participating in certain
    trade organizations, making misrepresentations concerning
    smoking and health and youth marketing, and using certain brand
    descriptors such as “low tar,” “light,”
    “ultra light,” “mild” and
    “natural,” and ordered the defendants to issue
    “corrective communications” on five subjects,
    including smoking and health, and addiction.


 


    Both sides have appealed. In October 2006, the U.S. Court
    of Appeals granted the defendants’ motion to stay pending
    the outcome of the defendants’ appeal. Oral argument
    occurred on October 14, 2008. A decision is pending. RJR
    Tobacco does not know the timing of an appellate decision or, if
    the order is affirmed, the compliance deadlines that will be
    imposed. If the order is affirmed without modification, then RJR
    Tobacco believes that certain provisions of the order would have
    adverse business effects on the marketing of RJR Tobacco’s
    current product portfolio and that such effects could be
    material. Also, if the order is affirmed, then RJR Tobacco would
    incur costs in connection with complying with the order, such as
    the costs of corrective communications.


 


    For a more complete description of this case, see
    “— Health-Care Cost Recovery Cases —
    Department of Justice Case” in Item 8, note 16 to
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s overall retail market share of cigarettes
    has declined in recent years and is expected to continue to
    decline; if RJR Tobacco is not able to continue to grow market
    share of its growth brands, or develop, produce or market new
    alternative tobacco products profitably, results of operations,
    cash flows and financial position of RJR Tobacco and
    consequently, of RAI could be adversely impacted.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s U.S. retail market share of cigarettes
    has been declining for a number of years, and RJR Tobacco
    expects this market share to continue to decline. According to
    data from IRI, RJR Tobacco’s share of the
    U.S. cigarette retail market declined to 28.1% in 2008 from
    29.0% in 2007, continuing a trend in effect for several years.
    If RJR Tobacco’s growth brands do not continue to grow
    market share, results of operations, cash flows and financial
    position will be adversely affected. In addition, consumer
    health concerns, changes in adult consumer preferences and
    changes in regulations require or cause RJR Tobacco to introduce
    new alternative tobacco products. Consumer acceptance of new
    products, such as CAMEL Snus or CAMEL Dissolvables, may not be
    achieved. Furthermore, RJR Tobacco may not find vendors willing
    to produce alternative tobacco products resulting in additional
    capital expenditures for RJR Tobacco.


 


    RJR Tobacco is dependent on the U.S. cigarette market,
    which it expects to continue to decline, negatively impacting
    revenue.


 


    The international rights to substantially all of RJR
    Tobacco’s brands were sold in 1999 to JTI. In addition, in
    connection with the B&W business combination in 2004, RAI
    entered into a non-competition agreement with BAT under which
    RAI’s operating subsidiaries generally are prohibited,
    subject to certain exceptions, from manufacturing and marketing
    certain tobacco products outside the United States until July
    2009. Therefore, RJR Tobacco is dependent on the
    U.S. cigarette market. Price increases, restrictions on
    advertising and promotions, funding of smoking prevention
    campaigns, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health
    concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking,
    increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other factors
    have reduced U.S. cigarette consumption.
    U.S. cigarette consumption is expected to continue to
    decline.


 


    RJR Tobacco is RAI’s largest operating segment. As such, it
    is the primary source of RAI’s revenue, operating income
    and cash flows.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s contract manufacturing agreements with BAT
    may end in 2014.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s contract manufacturing for BAT accounted for
    5% of total RAI sales and approximately 24% of total RJR Tobacco
    cigarette production in 2008. These contract manufacturing
    agreements may expire at the end of 2014. If BAT’s
    contracts are not renewed or extended, RJR Tobacco’s
    revenue, operating income and cash flows will be unfavorably
    impacted.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    RAI’s operating subsidiaries are subject to significant
    limitations on advertising and marketing of tobacco products,
    which could harm the value of their existing brands or their
    ability to launch new brands, thus negatively impacting
    revenue.


 


    In the United States, television and radio advertisements of
    cigarettes have been prohibited since 1971, and television and
    radio advertisements of smokeless tobacco products have been
    prohibited since 1986. Under the MSA, certain of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco, cannot use
    billboard advertising, cartoon characters, sponsorship of
    certain events, non-tobacco merchandise bearing their brand
    names and various other advertising and marketing techniques. In
    addition, the MSA prohibits targeting of youth in advertising,
    promotion or marketing of tobacco products, including the
    smokeless tobacco products of RJR Tobacco. The Conwood companies
    are not participants in the MSA. Although these restrictions
    were intended to ensure that tobacco advertising was not aimed
    at young people, some of the restrictions also may limit the
    ability of RAI’s operating subsidiaries to communicate with
    adult tobacco users. Additional restrictions may be imposed
    legislatively or agreed to in the future. Recent proposals have
    included limiting tobacco advertising to
    black-and-white,
    text-only advertisements. Similar to the potential
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration, referred to as the FDA,
    restrictions described below, these limitations may make it
    difficult to maintain the value of existing brands or brand
    styles, and could significantly impair the ability of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries to launch new brand styles.


 


    In the U.S., tobacco products are subject to substantial and
    increasing regulation and taxation, which has a negative effect
    on revenue and profitability.


 


    Tobacco products are subject to substantial federal and state
    excise taxes in the United States. On February 4, 2009,
    President Obama signed an increase of $0.62 in the federal
    excise tax per pack of cigarettes, for a total of $1.01 per pack
    of cigarettes, and significant tax increases on other tobacco
    products, to fund expansion of the State Children’s Health
    Insurance Program, referred to as the SCHIP. These tax increases
    are effective on April 1, 2009.


 


    Under the SCHIP, the tax rate for chewing tobacco will increase
    $0.3083 per pound to $0.5033 per pound and will increase $0.925
    per pound to $1.51 per pound for snuff. The federal tax on small
    cigars, defined as those weighing three pounds or less per
    thousand, will increase $48.502 per thousand to $50.33 per
    thousand. Large cigars currently are taxed at a rate of 20.719%
    of the manufacturer’s price, with a cap of $48.75 per
    thousand. Under the SCHIP, the rate on large cigars will
    increase to 52.75% of the manufacturer’s price with a
    maximum rate of $0.4026 per cigar. In addition, the tax rate for
    roll-your-own tobacco will increase from $1.097 per pound to
    $24.78 per pound.


 


    The increases in federal excise tax under the SCHIP are
    substantial, and, as a result, RAI expects its operating
    subsidiaries’ volume will be adversely impacted beginning
    in the second quarter of 2009.


 


    In addition to federal and state excise taxes, certain city and
    county governments also impose substantial excise taxes on
    tobacco products sold. Increased excise taxes are likely to
    result in declines in overall sales volume and shifts by
    consumers to less expensive brands.


 


    A wide variety of federal, state and local laws limit the
    advertising, sale and use of cigarettes, and these laws have
    proliferated in recent years. For example, many local laws
    prohibit smoking in restaurants and other public places. Private
    businesses also have adopted regulations that prohibit or
    restrict, or are intended to discourage, smoking. Such laws and
    regulations also are likely to result in a decline in the
    overall sales volume of cigarettes. For additional information
    on the issues described above, see
    “— Governmental Activity” in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7.


 


    The proposed regulation of tobacco products by the Food and
    Drug Administration may adversely affect RAI’s sales and
    operating profit.


 


    A bill that would grant the FDA, authority to regulate tobacco
    products was introduced in Congress in February 2007. On
    July 30, 2008, the U.S. House of Representatives
    passed the bill by a vote of
    326-102. The
    U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee
    approved the FDA regulation bill on August 1, 2007, but the
    Senate adjourned in 2008 without any further action on the bill.
    In 2009, it is likely that Congress will again take up the issue
    of FDA regulation of tobacco products.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    It is anticipated that any proposed FDA regulation bill most
    likely would:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Require larger and more severe health warnings on packs and
    cartons;




 



     
        • 

    
    Ban the use of descriptors on tobacco products, such as
    “low-tar” and “light”;




 



     
        • 

    
    Require the disclosure of ingredients and additives to consumers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Require pre-market approval by the FDA for claims made with
    respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Allow the FDA to require the reduction of nicotine and the
    reduction or elimination of any other compound in tobacco
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Prohibit the use of foreign grown tobacco that has been grown or
    processed with pesticides not approved under federal law for use
    in domestic tobacco farming and processing;




 



     
        • 

    
    Allow the FDA to place more severe restrictions on the
    advertising, marketing and sale of cigarettes;




 



     
        • 

    
    Permit inconsistent state regulation of labeling and advertising
    and eliminate the existing federal preemption of such
    regulation; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Grant the FDA the regulatory authority to impose broad
    additional restrictions.





 


    It is possible that such additional regulation could result in a
    decrease in cigarette and smokeless tobacco sales in the United
    States, including sales of RJR Tobacco’s and Conwood’s
    brands, and an increase in costs to RJR Tobacco and Conwood
    which may have a material adverse effect on RAI’s results
    of operations, cash flows and financial condition. RAI believes
    that such regulation may adversely affect the ability of its
    operating subsidiaries to compete against its larger
    competitors, including Philip Morris USA, Inc., who may be able
    to more quickly and cost-effectively comply with these new rules
    and regulations.


 


    Over the years, various state and local governments have
    continued to regulate tobacco products, including smokeless
    tobacco products. These regulations relate to, among other
    things, the imposition of significantly higher taxes, increases
    in the minimum age to purchase tobacco products, sampling and
    advertising bans or restrictions, ingredient and constituent
    disclosure requirements and significant tobacco control media
    campaigns. Additional state and local legislative and regulatory
    actions will likely be considered in the future, including,
    among other things, restrictions on the use of flavorings.


 


    Additional federal or state regulation relating to the
    manufacture, sale, distribution, advertising, labeling,
    mandatory ingredients disclosure and nicotine yield information
    disclosure of tobacco products could reduce sales, increase
    costs and have a material adverse effect on the business of the
    operating subsidiaries of RAI.


 


    For additional information on the issues described above, see
    “— Governmental Activity” in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7.


 


    RJR Tobacco’s and Conwood’s volumes, market share
    and profitability may be adversely affected by competitive
    actions and pricing pressures in the marketplace.


 


    The tobacco industry is highly competitive. Among the major
    manufacturers, brands primarily compete on product quality,
    price, brand recognition, brand imagery and packaging.
    Substantial marketing support, merchandising display,
    discounting, promotions and other financial incentives generally
    are required to maintain or improve a brand’s market
    position or introduce a new brand.


 


    In addition, substantial payment obligations under the MSA
    adversely affect RJR Tobacco’s ability to compete with
    manufacturers of deep-discount cigarettes that are not subject
    to such substantial obligations. For a more complete description
    of the MSA, see “— Health-Care Recovery
    Cases — MSA” in Item 8, note 16 to
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    Conwood’s largest competitor, UST Inc., was acquired by the
    parent company of Philip Morris USA, Inc. in January 2009. This
    acquisition of UST Inc. may change the competitive dynamics by
    combining pricing and merchandising display for cigarettes and
    smokeless tobacco products. Pricing pressure and limited
    merchandising



    
    14



Table of Contents




    display could adversely affect Conwood’s and RJR
    Tobacco’s market share, which would adversely affect
    RAI’s profitability and revenues.


 


    Increases in commodity prices will increase costs and may
    reduce profitability.


 


    Increases in the cost of tobacco leaf, other raw materials and
    other commodities used in RAI’s operating
    subsidiaries’ products could cause profits to decline.


 


    Certain of RAI’s operating subsidiaries may be required
    to write-down intangible assets or goodwill due to impairment,
    thus reducing operating profit.


 


    RAI conducts an impairment review of goodwill and intangible
    assets at least once a year, or more often if events or changes
    in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the
    goodwill or intangible asset may not be recoverable. During
    2008, RJR Tobacco repositioned its KOOL brand as a support brand
    from a growth brand, which resulted in an impairment charge of
    $173 million and an additional $3 million impairment
    charge was incurred during the annual testing of RJR
    Tobacco’s brands. Conwood recorded an impairment of
    $142 million related to KODIAK, as well as multiple loose
    leaf and little cigar brands, as a result of annual impairment
    testing. For more information on intangible asset impairment,
    see Item 8, note 3 to consolidated financial
    statements.


 


    In addition, the recent passage of the SCHIP increases the
    federal excise tax on cigarettes by $0.62 per pack and
    significantly increases the federal tax on other tobacco
    products. These tax increases are effective April 1, 2009,
    and RAI’s operating subsidiaries expect the tax increases
    to significantly and adversely impact sales volume. RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries believe that the federal excise tax
    increase is an event that will require that their goodwill and
    trademarks be tested for impairment during the first quarter of
    2009, and the resulting fair value of certain of their
    trademarks could be less than their carrying value. In
    particular, RJR Tobacco believes that impairment charges related
    to support and non-support cigarette brands are possible, and
    Conwood also believes that impairment charges related to certain
    brands are possible. No reasonable estimate of trademark
    impairment charges can be made at this time by RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries.


 


    Changes in financial market conditions could result in higher
    costs and decreased profitability.


 


    Changes in financial market conditions could negatively impact
    RAI’s foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate
    risk and the return on corporate cash, thus increasing costs and
    reducing profitability. During 2008, adverse conditions in the
    financial markets forced RAI to invest excess cash in either low
    interest funds or near zero interest funds, thereby, lowering
    interest income.


 


    Adverse changes in liquidity in the financial markets could
    result in additional realized or unrealized losses on
    investments.


 


    Continued adverse changes in the liquidity in the financial
    markets could result in additional realized or unrealized losses
    associated with the value of RAI’s investments, which would
    negatively impact RAI’s consolidated results of operations,
    cash flows and financial position. During 2008, RAI recorded
    $35 million of impairment losses from declines in the value
    of short-term and long-term investments. As of December 31,
    2008, $69 million of unrealized losses remain in other
    comprehensive income (loss). For more information on investment
    losses, see Item 8, note 9 to consolidated financial
    statements.


 


    RAI’s access to cash could be impacted by adverse
    changes in the financial markets and bankruptcy of financial
    institutions.


 


    During 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., referred to as LCPI,
    filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal
    Bankruptcy Code. LCPI is a lender in RAI’s Fifth Amended
    and Restated Credit Agreement, which as subsequently amended, is
    referred to as the Credit Facility. There can be no assurance
    that LCPI would loan LCPI’s pro rata share of any borrowing
    requests made by RAI. For more information on participants in
    RAI’s Credit Facility, see “— Liquidity and
    Financial Condition” in “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” in Item 7.


 


    In addition, the adverse conditions in the financial markets
    during 2008, caused RAI to invest primarily in Treasury money
    market funds. If there were a high demand for cash from the
    Treasury money market funds, restrictions could be placed on the
    funds, preventing immediate withdrawal and RAI’s access to
    needed cash.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    Increases in the cost of pension benefits or pension funding
    may reduce RAI’s profitability and cash flow.


 


    RAI’s profitability is affected by the costs of pension
    benefits available to employees generally hired prior to
    January 1, 2004. Adverse changes in investment returns
    earned on pension assets and discount rates used to calculate
    pension and related liabilities or changes in required pension
    funding levels may have an unfavorable impact on pension expense
    and cash flows. Due to adverse changes in the financial markets,
    RAI’s rate of return in 2008 on pension assets was negative
    30.1%. This unfavorable return, along with an unfavorable
    discount rate, will increase RAI’s required pension funding
    for 2009 to a minimum of $50 million and increase pension
    expense approximately $180 million in 2009. RAI actively
    seeks to control increases in pension costs, but there can be no
    assurance that profitability will not be adversely affected. In
    addition, changes to pension legislation or changes in pension
    accounting may adversely affect profitability.


 


    RJR Tobacco relies on outside suppliers to manage certain
    non-core business processes. Any interruption in these services
    could negatively affect the operations of RJR Tobacco and harm
    its reputation and consequently the operations and reputation of
    RAI.


 


    In an effort to gain cost efficiencies, RJR Tobacco has either
    outsourced or is in the process of outsourcing many of its
    non-core business processes. Non-core business process functions
    include, but are not limited to, information technology, human
    resources, trucking and facilities. If any of the suppliers fail
    to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at a
    satisfactory quality level, RJR Tobacco may fail to operate
    effectively and fail to meet shipment demand.


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries rely on a limited number of
    suppliers for direct materials. An interruption in service from
    any of these suppliers could adversely affect the results of
    operations, cash flows and financial position of RAI.


 


    RAI’s operating subsidiaries rely on a limited number of
    suppliers for direct materials. If a supplier fails to meet any
    of RAI’s operating subsidiary’s demand for direct
    materials, the operating subsidiary may fail to operate
    effectively and may fail to meet shipment demand, adversely
    impacting RAI’s results of operations.


 


    Certain of RAI’s operating subsidiaries face a customer
    concentration risk. The loss of this customer would result in a
    decline in revenue and have an adverse effect on cash flows.


 


    Revenues from McLane Company, Inc., a distributor, comprised 29%
    of RAI’s consolidated revenues in 2008. The loss of this
    customer, or a significant decline in its purchases, could have
    a material adverse effect on revenue of RAI.


 


    Fire, violent weather conditions and other disasters may
    adversely affect the operations of RAI’s operating
    subsidiaries.


 


    A major fire, violent weather conditions or other disasters that
    affect manufacturing and other facilities of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries, or of their suppliers and vendors, could
    have a material adverse effect on the operations of RAI’s
    operating subsidiaries. Despite RAI’s insurance coverage
    for some of these events, a prolonged interruption in the
    manufacturing operations of RAI’s operating subsidiaries
    could have a material adverse effect on the ability of its
    operating subsidiaries to effectively operate their businesses.


 


    The agreement relating to RAI’s Credit Facility contains
    restrictive covenants that limit the flexibility of RAI and its
    subsidiaries. Breach of those covenants will result in a default
    under the agreement relating to the facility.


 


    Restrictions in the agreement relating to RAI’s Credit
    Facility limit the ability of RAI and its subsidiaries to obtain
    future financing, and could impact the ability to withstand a
    future downturn in their businesses or the economy in general,
    conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business
    opportunities that may arise. In addition, if RAI does not
    comply with these covenants, any indebtedness outstanding under
    the credit facility could become immediately due and payable.
    The lenders under RAI’s Credit Facility could refuse to
    lend funds if RAI is not in compliance with the covenants or
    could terminate the Credit Facility. If RAI were unable to repay
    accelerated amounts, the lenders under RAI’s Credit
    Facility could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation
    proceeding.



    
    16



Table of Contents




    For more information on the restrictive covenants in RAI’s
    Credit Facility, see Item 8, note 13 to consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    RAI has substantial long-term debt, which could adversely
    affect its financial position and its ability to obtain
    financing in the future and react to changes in its business.


 


    Because RAI has debt of $4.5 billion:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital,
    capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or
    general corporate purposes, and its ability to satisfy its
    obligations with respect to its indebtedness, may be impaired in
    the future;




 



     
        • 

    
    a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations must be
    dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its
    indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to it for
    other purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    it may be at a disadvantage compared to its competitors with
    less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest
    rates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    its flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and
    ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, and
    it may be more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic
    conditions or its business, or be unable to carry out capital
    spending that is necessary or important to its growth strategy
    and its efforts to improve operating margins.





 


    It is likely that RAI will refinance, or attempt to refinance, a
    significant portion of this indebtedness prior to its maturity
    through the incurrence of new indebtedness. There can be no
    assurance that RAI’s available cash or access to financing
    on acceptable terms will be sufficient to satisfy such
    indebtedness.


 


    The ability of RAI to access the debt capital markets could
    be impaired if the credit rating of its debt securities falls
    below investment grade.


 


    The outstanding notes issued by RAI and RJR are rated investment
    grade. In certain cases, if RAI’s credit rating falls below
    investment grade, RAI and certain of RAI’s subsidiaries,
    including its material domestic subsidiaries, referred to as the
    Guarantors, will be required to provide collateral to secure
    RAI’s Credit Facility and senior notes. In such event, RAI
    may not be able to sell additional debt securities or borrow
    money in such amounts, at the times, at the lower interest rates
    or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might be
    available if its debt was rated investment grade. In addition,
    future debt security issuances or other borrowings may be
    subject to further negative terms, including limitations on
    indebtedness or similar restrictive covenants.


 


    RAI’s credit ratings are influenced by some important
    factors not entirely within the control of RAI or its
    affiliates, such as tobacco litigation, the regulatory
    environment and the performance of suppliers and vendors to
    RAI’s operating subsidiaries. Moreover, because the kinds
    of events and contingencies that may impair RAI’s credit
    ratings and the ability of RAI and its affiliates to access the
    debt capital markets are often the same kinds of events and
    contingencies that could cause RAI and its affiliates to seek to
    raise additional capital on an urgent basis, RAI and its
    affiliates may not be able to issue debt securities or borrow
    money upon acceptable terms, or at all, at the times at which
    they may most need additional capital.


 


    For more complete information on RAI’s borrowing
    arrangements, see Item 8, note 13 to consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    B&W’s significant equity interest in RAI could be
    determinative in matters submitted to a vote by RAI
    shareholders, resulting in RAI taking actions that RAI’s
    other shareholders do not support. B&W also has influence
    over RAI by virtue of the governance agreement, which requires
    B&W’s approval before RAI takes certain actions.


 


    B&W owns approximately 42% of the outstanding shares of RAI
    common stock. Only one other stockholder owns more than 10% of
    the outstanding shares of RAI common stock. Unless substantially
    all of RAI’s public shareholders vote together on matters
    presented to RAI shareholders, B&W would have the power to
    determine the outcome of matters submitted to a shareholder vote.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    Moreover, in connection with the B&W business combination,
    RAI, B&W and BAT entered into an agreement, referred to as
    the governance agreement, relating to various aspects of
    RAI’s corporate governance. Under the governance agreement,
    the approval of B&W, as a RAI shareholder, is required in
    connection with, among other things, the following matters:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the sale or transfer of certain RAI intellectual property
    associated with B&W brands having an international
    presence, other than in connection with a sale of RAI;




 



     
        • 

    
    RAI’s adoption of any takeover defense measures that would
    apply to the acquisition of equity securities of RAI by B&W
    or its affiliates, other than the adoption of the RAI rights
    plan; and




 



     
        • 

    
    RAI’s participation in any transaction, effected before
    July 30, 2009, that would reasonably be expected to
    jeopardize B&W’s tax ruling obtained in connection
    with, or B&W’s tax-free treatment of, the B&W
    business combination.





 


    Such influence could result in RAI taking actions that
    RAI’s other shareholders do not support.


 


    Under the governance agreement, B&W is entitled to
    nominate certain persons to RAI’s Board, and the approvals
    of the majority of such persons is required before certain
    actions may be taken, even though such persons represent less
    than a majority of the entire Board. In addition, certain
    provisions of RAI’s articles of incorporation may create
    conflicts of interest between RAI and certain of these
    persons.


 


    Under the governance agreement, B&W, based upon its current
    equity stake in RAI, is entitled to nominate five directors to
    RAI’s Board, at least three of whom are required to be
    independent directors and two of whom may be executive officers
    of BAT or any of its subsidiaries. RAI’s Board currently is
    comprised of 13 persons, including B&W’s five
    designees. Matters requiring the approval of RAI’s Board
    generally require the affirmative vote of a majority of the
    directors present at a meeting. Under the governance agreement,
    however, the approval of a majority of B&W’s designees
    on RAI’s Board is required in connection with the following
    matters:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    any issuance of RAI securities in excess of 5% of its
    outstanding voting stock, unless at such time B&W’s
    ownership interest in RAI is less than 32%; and




 



     
        • 

    
    any repurchase of RAI common stock, subject to a number of
    exceptions, unless at such time B&W’s ownership
    interest in RAI is less than 25%.





 


    As a result, B&W’s designees on RAI’s Board may
    prevent the foregoing transactions from being effected,
    notwithstanding a majority of the entire Board may have voted to
    approve such transactions.


 


    Under RAI’s articles of incorporation, a B&W
    designated director who is affiliated with, or employed by, BAT
    or its subsidiaries and affiliates is not required to present a
    transaction, relationship, arrangement or other opportunity, all
    of which are collectively referred to as a business opportunity,
    to RAI if that business opportunity does not relate primarily to
    the United States.


 


    B&W’s significant ownership interest in RAI, and
    RAI’s shareholder rights plan, classified board of
    directors and other anti-takeover defenses could deter
    acquisition proposals and make it difficult for a third party to
    acquire control of RAI without the cooperation of B&W. This
    could have a negative effect on the price of RAI’s common
    stock.


 


    As RAI’s largest shareholder, B&W could vote its
    shares of RAI common stock against any takeover proposal
    submitted for shareholder approval or refuse to accept any
    tender offer for shares of RAI common stock. This right would
    make it very difficult for a third party to acquire RAI without
    B&W consent. In addition, RAI has a shareholder rights
    plan, a classified board of directors and other takeover
    defenses in its articles of incorporation and bylaws.
    B&W’s ownership interest in RAI and these defenses
    could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay
    or prevent a change in control of RAI. These deterrents could
    adversely affect the price of RAI common stock and make it very
    difficult to remove or replace members of the board of directors
    or management of RAI without cooperation of B&W.



    
    18



Table of Contents




    RAI shareholders may be adversely affected by the expiration
    of the standstill and transfer restrictions in the governance
    agreement, which would enable B&W to, among other things,
    transfer all or a significant percentage of its RAI shares to a
    third party, seek additional representation on the RAI board of
    directors, replace existing RAI directors, solicit proxies or
    otherwise acquire effective control of RAI.


 


    The standstill provisions contained in the governance agreement
    generally restrict B&W from acquiring additional shares of
    RAI common stock and taking other specified actions as a
    shareholder of RAI. These restrictions generally will expire
    upon the earlier of ten years from the date of the B&W
    business combination and the date on which a significant
    transaction, as defined in the governance agreement, is
    consummated or occurs.


 


    Subject to the terms of the RAI shareholder rights plan,
    B&W will be free after expiration of the standstill period
    to increase its ownership interest in RAI to more than 50% and
    may use this controlling vote to elect any number of or all the
    members of RAI’s board of directors.


 


    In addition, if the transfer restrictions in the governance
    agreement are terminated, subject to the terms of the RAI
    shareholder rights plan, there will be no contractual
    restrictions on B&W’s ability to sell or transfer its
    shares of RAI common stock on the open market, in privately
    negotiated transactions or otherwise. These sales or transfers
    could create a substantial decline in the price of shares of RAI
    common stock or, if these sales or transfers were made to a
    single buyer or group of buyers that own RAI shares, could
    result in a third party acquiring effective control of RAI.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B