Item 1A. Risk Factors

 

The risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are important factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic results.  It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors.  Consequently, this list should not be considered a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties.  (See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a note regarding forward-looking statements.)

 

We may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market.

 

We operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation.  We therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours.

 

We face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis of cruise pricing and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to cruise passengers.  Our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Carnival Cruise Lines, Princess Cruises, Holland America Line, Costa Cruises, P&O Cruises, and Cunard Line; Star Cruises, which owns, among others, Star Cruises and Norwegian Cruise Line; Mediterranean Shipping Company, which owns MSC Cruises; and Disney Cruise Line.

 

In the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

 

Overcapacity within the cruise vacation industry, a reduction in demand or geo-political and economic uncertainties could have a negative impact on revenues, result in impairment of assets and may adversely affect profitability.

 

Cruising capacity has grown in recent years and we expect it to increase further as the major cruise vacation companies introduce new ships.  Demand for cruises has been and is expected to continue to be dependent on the strength of the economies in the countries in which we market our products, the public’s attitude towards the safety of travel and the geo-political climate.  Economic or political changes may reduce demand for cruise vacations and may lead to reduced occupancy and/or price discounting which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and could result in impairment of our asset values.

 

fears of terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our profitability.

 

Events such as terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities, the spread of contagious diseases and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry.  These events could also impact our ability to source qualified crew from throughout the world at competitive costs and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs.

 

Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could affect our reputation and harm our future sales and profitability.


The operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, illnesses and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and thereby adversely affect future industry performance.  Incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently have an adverse impact on our profitability.

 


 

15

 






 

 

Environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs.

 

The United
States and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering
new environmental regulations or policies that could adversely impact the cruise vacation
industry.  Some environmental groups have lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise
ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its
environmental impact.  In addition, we are subject to various international, national, state
and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards
applicable to our ships, health and sanitary standards applicable to our passengers, security
standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities
to our passengers.  These issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by
the relevant authorities throughout the world.  This could result in the enactment
of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs
in the future.



In 2005, the United States issued a proposed Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative which would require United
States citizens to have a passport or other accepted identity document to travel to or
from certain countries or areas that were previously exempt, such as Canada, Mexico,
Central and South America and the Caribbean.  The proposal is currently expected to be
implemented as of December 31, 2006 for all United States citizens traveling to or from
these destinations by air and sea and as of December 31, 2007 for all travel
by land border crossings.  Many of our United States cruise passengers visiting
these destinations currently do not have passports, and it is therefore likely that
these regulations will have a negative impact on our bookings when they are implemented.

 

We may not be able to obtain financing on terms that are favorable or consistent with our expectations.

 

To fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we rely on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under our available credit facility, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sales of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets.  Our credit ratings impact our ability to obtain financing in financial markets and the terms of the financing.  Any lowering of our credit ratings may have adverse consequences on our ability to access the financial markets and/or on our cost of financings.  In addition, interest rates and our ability to obtain financing are dependent on many economic and political factors beyond our control.  Accordingly, we cannot be sure that our cash flows from operations and additional financings will be available in accordance with our expectations.

 

Conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and other risks.

 

We operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence.  Operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks.  Examples include political risks and risk of increases in duties and taxes as well as changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies.  Additional risks include currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings.  If we are unable to address these risks adequately, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

 

We have ship construction contracts which are denominated in euros.  While we have entered into euro denominated forward contracts to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged.  If the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated.  Termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss.


Ship construction delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises and unscheduled drydocks and repairs.


 

16

 






 

 


 


We depend on shipyards to construct and deliver our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order.  The sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks.  Delays or mechanical faults in ship construction have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships.  Shipyard insolvency and other industrial actions could also delay or indefinitely postpone the timely delivery of new ships.  We have experienced mechanical problems with the pod propulsion units on certain ships and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such problems in the future.  These events together with any related adverse publicity could, to the extent they are not covered by contractual provisions or insurances, adversely affect our financial results.

 

Our operating costs and taxes could increase due to market forces and economic or political factors beyond our control.

 

Our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll, insurance and security costs, are subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political instability or other factors beyond our control.  Increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability.  In addition, United States state and local authorities as well as foreign authorities periodically consider increases in taxes.   For instance, initiatives are currently pending in Alaska, which, if adopted, would impose taxes and other costs on us and our cruise passengers.  The implementation of these and other taxes could also cause an increase in our costs.

 

Unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our profits. 

 

We believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation.  The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists.  Any limitations on the availability of our ports of call could adversely affect our profits.

 

A change in our tax status under the United States Internal Revenue Code may have adverse effects on our income.

 

We and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a United States trade or business and/or from sources within the United States.  Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, our United States tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from United States income tax pursuant to Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code.  We believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. 

 

In 2005, final regulations under Section 883 became effective, which narrowed somewhat the scope of activities that are considered by the Internal Revenue Service to be incidental to the international operation of ships.  To the extent the income from non-incidental activities is earned from sources within the United States, that income will be subject to United States taxation; but the determination of the precise amount of such Untied States source income involves some uncertainties.  The tax impact of these new regulations reduced our net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 by approximately $14 million and we anticipate tax impacts in subsequent years on an ongoing basis.

 

It should also be noted that the provisions of Section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation.  Moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders that could affect our eligibility for the Section 883 exemption.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from United States income tax on United States source shipping income in the future.  If we were not entitled to the benefit of Section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to United States taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce
our net income.See Taxation of the Company above for a discussion of such taxation in the absence of an exemption under Section 883.


We are controlled by principal shareholders that have the power to determine our policies, management and actions requiring shareholder approval.


 

17

 






 

 

 

As of February 10, 2006, A. Wilhelmsen AS., a Norwegian corporation indirectly owned by members of the Wilhelmsen family of Norway, owned approximately 20.4% of our common stock and Cruise Associates, a Bahamian general partnership indirectly owned by various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the Pritzker family and various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the Ofer family, owned approximately 15.8% of our common stock.  A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates have the power to determine, among other things:

 

• our policies and the policies of our subsidiaries, 

 

• the persons who will be our directors and officers, and

 

• actions requiring shareholder approval. 

 

A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates are parties to a shareholders’ agreement.  The agreement provides that our board of directors will consist of the following persons:

 

• four nominees of A. Wilhelmsen AS., 

 

• four nominees of Cruise Associates and 

 

• our Chief Executive Officer. 

 

During the term of the shareholders’ agreement, certain corporate actions require the approval of at least one director nominated by A. Wilhelmsen AS. and one director nominated by Cruise Associates.  Our principal shareholders are not prohibited from engaging in a business that may compete with our business, subject to certain exceptions.  If any person other than A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates, our two principal shareholders, acquires ownership of more than 30% of our common stock and our two principal shareholders, in the aggregate, own less of our common stock than such person and do not collectively have the right to elect, or to designate for election, at least a majority of the board of directors, we may be obligated to prepay indebtedness outstanding under the majority of our credit facilities, which we may be unable to replace on similar terms.  If this were to
occur, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations.

 

The holders of our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their equity interest as a result of the sale of currently restricted shares of our common stock into the public market.

 

A substantial number of shares of our common stock were either issued by us in private transactions not involving a public offering or are held by our affiliates and, therefore the sale of these securities is subject to restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”).  These shares include the 20.4% shares of our common stock held by A. Wilhelmsen AS. and the 15.8% held by Cruise Associates.  No predictions can be made as to the effect, if any, that market sales of such shares, or the availability of such shares for future market sales, will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time.  Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perceptions that such sales could occur, could materially adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of equity
securities.  Each of A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates has the right, pursuant to a registration rights agreement, to require us, subject to certain qualifications, to effect the registration under the Securities Act of all or part of their shares of common stock which would allow these shares to be sold into the public market.  

 

We are not a United States corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests.

 

Our corporate affairs are governed by our Restated Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws and by the
Business Corporation Act of Liberia.  The provisions of the Business Corporation Act of Liberia
resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States.  However, while
most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate
statutes, there are very few judicial cases in Liberia interpreting the Business Corporation Act
of Liberia.  For example, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under Liberian
law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors
under statutes or judicial

 

18

 






 

 

precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions.  Thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction.

 

 


Item 1B