Item 1A. Risk Factors  The risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. The risks described below are only those known risks relating to our operations and financial condition that we consider material. There may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. Adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. The demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic and geopolitical conditions.  In recent years, we have been faced with very challenging global economic conditions, which have adversely affected vacationers’ discretionary income and consumer confidence. This, in turn, resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for others in the cruise industry as compared to more robust economic times. Although the cruise industry continued to recover in 2013, recovery remains slow in certain key markets, including Southern Europe, and has been hindered in some other markets by ongoing economic instability.  We cannot predict with any certainty whether demand for cruises will continue to improve or the rate of such improvement. In addition, any significant deterioration of global economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. Demand for our cruises is also influenced by geopolitical events. Unfavorable conditions, such as cross-border conflicts, civil unrest and governmental changes, especially in regions with popular ports of call, can undermine consumer demand and/or pricing for itineraries featuring these ports.Continued unrest and economic instability could materially adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets.  During 2012, we recognized material impairment related charges associated with our Pullmantur brand.  Despite these charges, if the economies where Pullmantur operates perform worse than contemplated in our discounted cash flow model, or if there are relatively modest changes to the projected future cash flows used in the impairment analyses, especially in Net Yields or if certain transfers of vessels from our other cruise brands to the Pullmantur fleet do not take place, it is reasonably possible that an additional impairment charge of the Pullmantur reporting unit’s goodwill and trademarks and trade names may be required.   We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. To fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets.  Any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows.  See “-Adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions…” and “-Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry…” for more information.  Although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect.  Our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and, our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including but not limited to the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance and credit ratings and the performance of our industry in general.  23Table of ContentsOur inability to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities could adversely impact our liquidity. Our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants that require us to maintain minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage ratios and limit our net debt-to-capital ratio. Our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. In addition, our ability to make borrowings under our available credit facilities is subject to the absence of material adverse changes in our business. Our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. More specifically, we may be required to prepay a majority of our debt facilities if (i) any person or entity other than A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates and their respective affiliates (the “Applicable Group”) acquires ownership of more than 33% of our common stock and the Applicable Group owns less of our common stock than such person or (ii) subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the Board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the Board on the first day of such period. Certain of our outstanding debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by the acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock by a person other than a member of the Applicable Group coupled with a ratings downgrade. Our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. Generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. We cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or the ability to refinance the borrowings under any of the credit facilities or settle other outstanding contracts if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. In addition, under several of our agreements with credit card processors that accept credit cards for the sale of cruises and other services, the credit card processor may hold back a reserve from our credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including a default under our major credit facilities. As of December 31, 2013, we were not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements.Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. The operation of cruise ships, airplanes, land tours, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. Incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety and security of guests and crew, media coverage thereof, as well as adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry   have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by those incidents. If any such incident occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year.  In addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation.Our cruise ships and port facilities may also be adversely impacted by unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes. It is possible that we could be forced to alter itineraries or cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which would have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. In addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. The impact of disruptions in the global financial markets may affect the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. The financial crisis of 2008, including failures of financial service and insurance companies and the related liquidity crisis, disrupted the capital and credit markets.   A recurrence of these or similar disruptions could cause our 24Table of Contentscounterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them. This could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. If any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. An increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. Although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted both by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace and by deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. A total of 26 new ships with approximately 71,000  berths are on order for delivery through 2018 in the cruise industry. The further growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry’s share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. In addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. If we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. Our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. There can be no assurances that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management strategies. We may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market. We operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. We face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. Our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Lines, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, Iberocruceros, P&O Cruises and Princess Cruises; Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line and Oceania Cruises. In the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. Fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. In view of our global operations, we have become susceptible to a wider range of adverse events. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, recognize assets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including, among others, the British pound sterling, the Canadian dollar, the Euro, the Australian dollar and the Brazilian real. In 2013, we derived approximately 48% of revenues from operations outside the United States. Because our 25Table of Contentsconsolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must convert revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, absent offsetting changes in other foreign currencies, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our revenues, net income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. We use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net balance sheet exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. However, there can be no assurances that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, would not materially affect our financial results. In addition, we have ship construction contracts which are denominated in Euros. While we have entered into Euro-denominated forward contracts and collar options to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the Euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. Additionally, if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. Termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. Environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. The United States and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements, further restricting emissions, or other initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions that could increase our cost for fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. Some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact.  See Item 1. Business-Regulation-Environmental Regulations. An increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. In addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. These issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world, especially in light of several recent incidents involving cruise ships. This could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. Conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. We operate our business globally.   Operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including unstable local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, U.S. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings.  If we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. Operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. In many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards.  We must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations.  However, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with which we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them.  26Table of ContentsFailure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. While our historical focus has been to serve the North American cruise market, we have expanded our focus to increase our international guest sourcing, including sourcing from the Latin American, Asian and Australian markets.  In addition, in early 2014, Pullmantur opened a regional head office in Panama.  Expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. There can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, including potentially impairing the value of our goodwill. Ship construction, repair or revitalization delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on shipyards to construct, repair and revitalize our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. The sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. Delays in ship construction or revitalization or mechanical faults have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. These events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. Shipyards and their subcontractors may experience financial difficulties which could cause or result in delay, ship cancellations, our inability to procure new capacity in a timely fashion or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on shipyards to construct, repair and revitalize our ships. Financial difficulties, liquidations or closures suffered by these shipyards and/or their subcontractors may impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and revitalize our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations.  The shipyard that is building the two newbuilds for our TUI Cruises joint venture continues to experience financial difficulties.  This situation could have a material impact on the ability of the shipyard to deliver these ships in accordance with the terms of the contract, the costs borne by TUI Cruises associated with these ships and/or the additional financial support that we may need to provide to TUI Cruises (e.g., parent guarantees, loans, additional equity contributions) or that TUI Cruises may need to provide to the shipyard to seek to ensure timely completion.In addition, there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships and, accordingly, closures or consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry could impact our ability to construct new ships when and as planned and/or could result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and thus higher prices for our future ship orders.  Delivery delays and canceled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to build, repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis.  Our operating costs, especially fuel expenditures, could increase due to market forces and economic or geo- political factors beyond our control. Expenditures for fuel represent a significant cost of operating our business. If fuel prices rise significantly in a short period of time, we may be unable to increase fares or other fees sufficiently to offset fully our increased fuel costs. We routinely hedge a portion of our future fuel requirements to protect against rising fuel costs. However, there can be no assurance that our hedge contracts will provide a sufficient level of protection against increased fuel costs or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our hedge contracts, such as in the case of a counterparty’s bankruptcy. Further volatility in fuel prices or disruptions in fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 27Table of ContentsOur other operating costs, including food, payroll, airfare, taxes, insurance and security costs are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political conditions or other factors beyond our control. Increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. Unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists.  In addition, rising fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries.  Any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations.Price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. Many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. Increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. In addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests’ ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. Because we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. If we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. Significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in our shoreside operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located at the Port of Miami, Florida and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. Actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. In addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. We do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside operations or our information systems. As such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Failure to develop the value of our brands and differentiate our products could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends on the strength and continued development of our cruise brands and on the effectiveness of our brand strategies. Failure to protect and differentiate our brands from competitors throughout the vacation market could adversely affect our results of operations. 28Table of ContentsThe loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality personnel. We must continue to sufficiently recruit, retain, train and motivate our employees to maintain our current business and support our projected growth.  Furthermore, as of December 31, 2013, 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. A dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. A loss of key employees or disruptions among our personnel could adversely affect our results of operations.   Business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. Partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, such as our joint venture to operate TUI Cruises, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. In addition, actions by another investor may present additional risks of operational difficulties or reputational or legal concerns.  These or other issues related to our co-investment with third parties could adversely impact our operations. We rely on third-party providers of various services integral to the operations of our businesses. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. In order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems.  We are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. A failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider’s compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. There is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. A failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position. Our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. These technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers’ demands and expectations.  If we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. We also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. We may be exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests’ and employees’ personal information. We are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with applicable laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. In the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information for various business purposes. If we fail to maintain compliance with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. In addition, even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. Any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee or company data could cause consumers 29Table of Contentsto lose confidence in the security of our information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. A change in our tax status under the United States Internal Revenue Code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income. We and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a United States trade or business and/or from sources within the United States. Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, our United States tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from United States federal income tax pursuant to Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code. We believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. Our ability to rely on Section 883 could change in the future.  For example, U.S. tax legislation has been proposed that would eliminate the availability of Section 883 to us and would thereby cause a portion of our international shipping income to be subject to tax in the United States.   Moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of Liberia or Malta such that they no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, that could affect our eligibility for the Section 883 exemption. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from United States income tax on United States source shipping income in the future. If we were not entitled to the benefit of Section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to United States taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. Additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within tonnage tax regimes of the U.K. and Malta. Further, some of the operations of these companies are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. To the extent the tonnage tax laws of these countries change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. As budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed.We are not a United States corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws and by the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. The provisions of the Business Corporation Act of Liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in Liberia interpreting the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. As such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under Liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. For example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in Liberian courts may be more limited than in United States jurisdictions. There may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in Liberia and Liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. Thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 30Table of ContentsLitigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. Our business is subject to various United States and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. In addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. In certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. Such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws and Liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws and Liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the Company without Board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These include provisions in our Articles of Incorporation that prevent third parties, other than A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our Board of Directors. Item 1B