Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. The risks described below are only those known risks relating to our operations and financial condition that we consider material. There may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements.Adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets.The demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic and geopolitical conditions.  In recent years, we have been faced with very challenging global economic conditions, which have adversely affected vacationers’ discretionary income and consumer confidence. This, in turn, resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for others in the cruise industry as compared to more robust economic times. Although the cruise industry continued to recover in 2014, ongoing economic challenges continue in certain key markets, including Europe. In addition, we cannot predict with any certainty whether demand for cruises will continue to improve in countries that have experienced improved economic conditions or the strength of such improvement.  Any significant deterioration of global, national or local economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. Demand for our cruises is also influenced by geopolitical events. Unfavorable conditions, such as cross-border conflicts, civil unrest and governmental changes, especially in regions with popular ports of call, can undermine consumer demand and/or pricing for itineraries featuring these ports.Continued unrest and economic instability could materially adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. See Critical Accounting Policies for more information. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations.To fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. We also condition the effectiveness of our ship orders on obtaining committed financing arrangements. Any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows.  See “-Adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions…” and “-Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry…” for more information.Although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. Our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including but not limited to the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance and the performance of our industry in general.Our inability to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities could adversely impact our liquidity.Our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. In addition, our ability to make borrowings under our available credit facilities is subject to the absence of material adverse changes in our business. Our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. More specifically, we may be required to prepay a majority of our debt facilities if 24Table of Contents(i) any person or entity other than A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates and their respective affiliates (the “Applicable Group”) acquires ownership of more than 33% of our common stock and the Applicable Group owns less of our common stock than such person or (ii) subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the Board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the Board on the first day of such period. Certain of our outstanding debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by the acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock by a person other than a member of the Applicable Group coupled with a ratings downgrade.Our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. Generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. In addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. We cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or the ability to refinance the borrowings under any of the credit facilities or settle other outstanding contracts if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default.Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations.The ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, airplanes, land tours, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. Incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety and security of guests and crew, media coverage thereof, as well as adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. The considerable expansion in the use of social media and digital marketing over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by those incidents. If any such incident occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. In addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation.Our cruise ships and port facilities may also be adversely impacted by unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes. We are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. In addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance.The impact of disruptions in the global financial markets may affect the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us.The financial crisis of 2008, including failures of financial service and insurance companies and the related liquidity crisis, disrupted the capital and credit markets. A recurrence of these or similar disruptions could cause our counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them. This could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. If any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition.An increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing.Although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted both by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace and by deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. A total of 33 new ships 25Table of Contentswith approximately 98,650 berths are on order for delivery through 2019 in the cruise industry. The further growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry’s share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. In addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated.  Any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets.If we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success.Our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. There can be no assurances that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management strategies.We may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market. We operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours.We face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. Our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include Carnival Corporation & plc, which owns, among others, Aida Cruises, Carnival Cruise Line, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Holland America Line, P&O Cruises and Princess Cruises; Disney Cruise Line; MSC Cruises; Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd which owns Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises.In the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.Fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations.Events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities, including the recent escalation of tensions in the Middle East and terrorism incidents in Europe, and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. In view of our global operations, we have become susceptible to a wider range of adverse events.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel costs and interest rates could affect our financial results.We are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and changes in interest rates. High levels of volatility with respect to any of the foregoing could have a material impact on our financial results, net of the impact of our hedging activities and other natural offsets. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for more information.Environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs.The United States and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements, further restricting emissions, or other initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions that could increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop 26Table of Contentsnew equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. While we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful. Some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact.  See Item 1. Business-Regulation-Environmental Regulations. An increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices.In addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. These issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. This could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.Conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks.We operate our business globally. Operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, U.S. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. We have recently expanded our presence in China and, accordingly, our exposure to the risks of doing business in the country. China’s economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal system in China continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. Operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. In many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. We must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations.  However, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with which we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. Failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows.If we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets.Our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful.While our historical focus has been to serve the North American cruise market, we have expanded our focus to increase our international guest sourcing, including sourcing from the Asian, Latin American, and Australian markets.  Expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. There can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, including potentially impairing the value of our goodwill.Ship construction, repair or upgrade delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations.We depend on shipyards to construct, repair and upgrade our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. The sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. Delays in ship construction or upgrades or mechanical faults have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled 27Table of Contentsdrydocks and repairs of ships. These events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations.Shipyards and their subcontractors may experience financial difficulties or consolidation which could cause or result in delay, ship cancellations, our inability to procure new capacity in a timely fashion or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations.We rely on shipyards to construct, repair and upgrade our ships. Financial difficulties, liquidations or closures suffered by these shipyards and/or their subcontractors may impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. In addition, there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships and, accordingly, consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry could impact our ability to construct new ships when and as planned and/or could result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and thus higher prices for our future ship orders. Delivery delays and canceled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to build, repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis.Our operating costs could increase due to market forces and economic or geo- political factors beyond our control.Our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll, airfare, taxes, insurance and security costs are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political conditions or other factors beyond our control. Increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability.Unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. In addition, rising fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries.  Any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations.Price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests.Many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. Increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. In addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests’ ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations.Our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business.Because we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. If we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. Significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.28Table of ContentsDisruptions in our shoreside operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations.Our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located at the Port of Miami, Florida and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. Actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. In addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. We do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside operations or our information systems. As such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.Failure to develop the value of our brands and differentiate our products could adversely affect our results of operations.Our success depends on the strength and continued development of our cruise brands and on the effectiveness of our brand strategies. Failure to protect and differentiate our brands from competitors throughout the vacation market could adversely affect our results of operations.The loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations.Our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality personnel in key markets. We must continue to sufficiently recruit, retain, train and motivate our employees to maintain our current business and support our projected global growth. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2014, 86% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. A dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. A loss of key employees or disruptions among our personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. Business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks.Partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, such as our joint venture to operate TUI Cruises, our new partnership to operate SkySea Cruises, our investment in Grand Bahama Shipyard and our minority ownership investments in various port development and other projects, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. In addition, actions by another investor may present additional risks of operational difficulties or reputational or legal concerns.  These or other issues related to our co-investment with third parties could adversely impact our operations.We rely on third-party providers of various services integral to the operations of our businesses. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business.In order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. We are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. A failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider’s compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. There is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised.29Table of ContentsA failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position.Our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. These technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers’ demands and expectations. If we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. We also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results.We may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber security, including protecting the integrity and security of our guests’ and employees’ personal information.We are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with applicable laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. In the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information for various business purposes. If we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted.In addition, even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. Any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business.  Significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. Additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. Our security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches.A change in our tax status under the United States Internal Revenue Code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income.We and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a United States trade or business and/or from sources within the United States. Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, our United States tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from United States federal income tax pursuant to Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code. We believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships.Our ability to rely on Section 883 could change in the future. Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, including Section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. Moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of Liberia or Malta such that they no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, that could affect our eligibility for the Section 883 exemption. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from United States income tax on United States source shipping income in the future. If we were not entitled to the benefit of Section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to United States taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income.Additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within tonnage tax regimes of the U.K. and Malta. Further, some of the operations of these companies are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax 30Table of Contentstreaties to provide exemption from taxation. To the extent the tonnage tax laws of these countries change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations.As budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed.We are not a United States corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests.Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws and by the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. The provisions of the Business Corporation Act of Liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in Liberia interpreting the Business Corporation Act of Liberia. As such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under Liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. For example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in Liberian courts may be more limited than in United States jurisdictions. There may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in Liberia and Liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. Thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction.Litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation.Our business is subject to various United States and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. In addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. In certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. Such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws and Liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management.Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws and Liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the Company without Board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These include provisions in our Articles of Incorporation that prevent third parties, other than A. Wilhelmsen AS. and Cruise Associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our Board of Directors.Item 1B