Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Commercialization of Products – Even if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors have received approval for and may be marketing products with a similar mechanism of action, or may enter the marketplace with better or lower cost drugs.”). Our competitors include Genentech/Roche, Novartis, Pfizer Inc., Bayer HealthCare, Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, Abbott Laboratories, sanofi-aventis, Merck & Co., Inc., Amgen Inc., AstraZ
eneca, BristolMyersSquibb, Johnson and Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline, and others. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. Competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained 

 

11

 



 



or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. Our ability to compete will depend, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. Competition among product candidates approved for sale will also be based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors.

 

     ARCALYST®. In 2009, Novartis received regulatory approval in the U.S. and Europe for canakinumab, a fully human anti-interleukin-IL1ß antibody, for the treatment of CAPS. In January 2011, Novartis announced that it had submitted an application to the EMA for approval of canakinumab in gout. Novartis has also announced that it plans to submit to the FDA in the first quarter of 2011 an application for approval of canakinumab in gout. Canakinumab is also in development for atherosclerosis and a number of other inflammatory diseases. In addition, there
 are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other third parties that are designed to block the synthesis of IL-1 or inhibit the signaling of IL-1. For example, Xoma Ltd., in collaboration with Servier, is developing an antibody to IL-1, and both Amgen and MedImmune are developing antibodies to the IL-1 receptor. These drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over ARCALYST®. The successful development and/or commercialization of these competing molecules could adversely affect sales of ARCALYST® for CAPS and delay or impair our ability to commercialize ARCALYST® for indications other than CAPS.

 

     VEGF Trap-Eye. The market for eye disease products is also very competitive. Novartis and Genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a VEGF antibody fragment (Lucentis®) for the treatment of wet AMD, DME, and other eye indications. Lucentis® was approved by the FDA in June 2006 for the treatment of wet AMD and in June 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (RVO). Lucentis® was approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for wet AMD in January 2007 and for the treatment 
of DME in January 2011. Many other companies are working on the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet AMD and DME including those that act by blocking VEGF and VEGF receptors as well as use of small interfering ribonucleic acids (siRNAs) that modulate gene expression. In addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment of wet AMD, DME, and RVO, a third-party repackaged version of Genentech’s approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin® (bevacizumab). The relatively low cost of therapy with Avastin® in patients with wet AMD presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. The National Eye Institute (NEI) initiated a Phase 3 trial to compare Lucentis® to Avastin® in the treat
ment of wet AMD. Data from this NEI study are expected to be published in 2011. Avastin® is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the United Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, Mexico, Germany, Israel, and other areas.

 

     Aflibercept. Many companies are developing therapeutic molecules designed to block the actions of VEGF specifically and angiogenesis in general. A variety of approaches have been employed, including antibodies to VEGF, antibodies to the VEGF receptor, small molecule antagonists to the VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase, and other anti-angiogenesis strategies. Many of these alternative approaches may offer competitive advantages to aflibercept in efficacy, side-effect profile, or method of delivery. Additionally, some of these molecules are either already approved for marketing
 or are at a more advanced stage of development than our product candidate.

 

     In particular, Genentech has an approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin®, on the market for treating certain cancers and a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing VEGF antagonists, including Novartis, Amgen, Imclone LLC/Eli Lilly, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, and GlaxoSmithKline. Many of these molecules are further along in development than aflibercept and may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. Pfizer, Onyx (together with its partner Bayer Healthcare), and GlaxoSmithKline are selling and marketing oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation 
that fuels the growth of tumors.

 

     Monoclonal Antibodies. Our early-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using our VelocImmune® technology. Our antibody generation technologies and early-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies.

 

     Numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. Companies such as Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Amgen, Biogen Idec, Inc., Novartis, Genentech/Roche, Bristol-Myers Squib, Abbott, and GlaxoSmithKline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise human antibody sequences. As noted above, AstraZeneca and Astellas have licensed our VelocImmune® technology as part of their internal antibody development programs.

 

12

 



 



     We are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early-stage product candidates. For example, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Abbott are developing antibody product candidates against NGF. Genentech/Roche is marketing an antibody against IL-6R (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and several other companies, including Centocor Ortho Biotech, Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb, have antibodies against IL-6 in clinical development for this disease. GlaxoSmithKline, in partnership with OncoMed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., has a Dll4 antibody in clinical development for the treatment of solid tumors. Aerovance has two formulations of a biologic directed against IL-4 in clinical development. Amgen previously had an antibody against IL-4R in clinical development for the t
reatment of asthma. We believe that several companies, including Amgen and Pfizer, have development programs for antibodies against PCSK9. Amgen, Pfizer, and AstraZeneca have development programs underway for antibodies against ANG2.

 

     Other Areas. Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. In these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. A number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and 
development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. These competitors include Amgen and Genentech, as well as many others. Many firms and entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. Some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. These and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages.

 

     If any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our operations or future prospects.

 

     We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. These institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. Products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. We also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations.

 

Patents, Trademarks, and Trade Secrets

 

     Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Intellectual Property – We may be restricted in our development and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary rights.”). Our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. As of December 31, 2010, we held an ownership interest in a total 
of approximately 170 issued patents in the United States and approximately 590 issued patents in foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. In addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the United States and foreign countries.

 

     Our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our VelociSuite™ technologies, including our VelocImmune® mouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. Our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2030. However, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms.

 

     Our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to our marketed product, ARCALYST®, and our product candidates in clinical development. These patents cover the proteins and DNA encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as 

 

13

 



 



various methods of using the products. For each of ARCALYST® and our late-stage product candidates, aflibercept and VEGF Trap-Eye, these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2028. However, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are available.

 

     We also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. In July 2008 we entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License Agreement with Cellectis S.A. pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination. Pursuant to this agreement, we agreed to pay Cellectis a low, single-digit royalty based on any future revenue received by us from any future licenses or sales of our VelociGene® or <font style="DISPLAY: inline; FONT-STYLE: itali
c">VelocImmune® products or services. No royalties are payable to Cellectis on any revenue from commercial sales of antibodies from our VelocImmune® technology, including antibodies developed under our collaboration with sanofi-aventis. We also have non-exclusive license agreements with Amgen and other organizations for patent rights related to ARCALYST®. In exchange for these licenses, we pay a mid-single digit royalty on net sales of ARCA
LYST®.

 

     Patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the United States and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit.

 

     Others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. We expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others.

 

     Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors-Risks Related to Intellectual Property – We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization rights by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary rights”)<
/font>.

 

Government Regulation

 

     Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of ARCALYST® and our product candidates (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Regulatory and Litigation Risks – If we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be able to market or sell them.”). All of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market app
roval requirements by the FDA and foreign authorities. Many aspects of the structure and substance of the FDA and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. The ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted.

 

     The activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the United States begin with preclinical tests. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. The results of these studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must be reviewed by the FDA before proposed clinical testing can begin. Typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. In Phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. In Phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. In
 Phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the FDA. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product 

 

14

 



 



candidate are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. In responding to a BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application.

 

     Any approval required by the FDA for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. The results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans.

 

     Approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for FDA approval.

 

     Various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue.

 

     In addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the United States Atomic Energy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations.

 

Business Segments

 

     We manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions and the development and commercialization of these discoveries. This segment also includes revenues and expenses related to (i) research and development activities conducted under our collaboration agreements with third parties and our grant from the NIH, (ii) ARCALYST® product sales for the treatment of CAPS, (iii) licensing agreements to utilize our VelocImmune® technology, and (iv) t
he supply of specified, ordered research materials using our VelociGene® technology platform.

 

Employees

 

     As of December 31, 2010, we had 1,395 full-time employees, of whom 276 held a Ph.D. and/or M.D., or PharmD degree. We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. None of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good.

 

Available Information

 

     We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website (http://www.regeneron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

 

     We operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. We caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. The risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events 

 

15

 



 



and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should be considered by our investors.

 

Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Additional Financing

 

We have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. If we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations.

 

     From inception on January 8, 1988 through December 31, 2010, we had a cumulative loss of $1.0 billion. If we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. In the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products or other sources, the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be predicted, our losses will continue as we conduct our research and development activities.

 

We may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.

 

     We will need to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates, and to prepare for potential commercialization of our late-stage product candidates and, if one or more of those product candidates receive(s) regulatory approval, to fund the launch of the product(s). We believe our existing capital resources, including the $174.8 million net proceeds from our October 2010 public offering of Common Stock and the $165.0 million up-front payment we received in August 2010 pursuant to our amended VelocImmune® technology license agreement
 with Astellas Pharma Inc., together with funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet operating needs through at least 2013; however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our projected revenue may decrease, or our expenses may increase and that would lead to our capital being consumed significantly before such time. Our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the potential commercial launch of our products, expenses related to new clinical trials testing ARCALYST® or VEGF Trap-Eye, and expenses related to the potential requirement for us to fund 20% of Phase 3 clinical trial costs for any of our antibody product candidates pursuant to the terms of our collaboration with sanofi-aventis.

 

     We may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise such additional funds. If we are able to obtain additional financing through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, such sales may be dilutive to our shareholders. Debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. In October 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 registering the sale, in one or more offerings, of an indeterminate amount of equity or debt securities, together or separately. Our October 2010 public offering of approximately 6.3 million shares of Common Stock was completed under this shelf registration statement; however, there is
 no assurance that we will be able to complete any additional offerings of securities. Should we require and be unable to raise sufficient funds to complete the development of our product candidates and also to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates if they obtain regulatory approval, we may face delay, reduction or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs, and even if regulatory approval is obtained for such product candidates, they may never be successfully launched or become profitable, in which case our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be materially harmed.

 

The value of our investment portfolio, which includes cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, is influenced by varying economic and market conditions. A decrease in the value of an asset in our investment portfolio or a default by the issuer may result in our inability to recover the principal we invested and/or a recognition of a loss charged against income.

 

     As of December 31, 2010, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaled $626.9 million (including $7.5 million of restricted cash and marketable securities) and represented 58% of our total assets. We have invested our excess cash primarily in direct obligations of the U.S. government and its agencies, other debt securities guaranteed by the U.S. government, and money market funds that invest in U.S. government securities. We consider assets 

 

16

 



 



classified as marketable securities to be “available-for-sale,” as defined by FASB authoritative guidance. Marketable securities totaled $506.8 million at December 31, 2010, are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are included in other accumulated comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. If the decline in the value of a security in our investment portfolio is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we write down the security to its current fair value and recognize a loss which may be fully charged against income. For example, we recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges related to certain marketable securities of $2.5 million, $0.1 million, and $0.1 million in 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. The current economic environment and the continued volatility of securities markets increase the risk that we may not recover the principal we invested and/or there
 may be further declines in the market value of securities in our investment portfolio. As a result, we may incur additional charges against income in future periods for other-than-temporary impairments or realized losses upon a security’s sale or maturity, and such amounts may be material.

 

Risks Related to ARCALYST® and the Development of Our Product Candidates

 

Successful development of any of our product candidates is highly uncertain.

 

     Only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. Even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our partners’ ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. Our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery. If our products are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business would be sever
ely harmed.

 

     We are testing aflibercept, VEGF Trap-Eye, and ARCALYST® in a number of late-stage clinical trials. Clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates. In a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness.

 

     Aflibercept is in Phase 3 clinical trials in combination with standard chemotherapy regimens for the treatment of 2nd-line metastatic colorectal cancer, 1st-line androgen independent prostate cancer, and 2nd-line metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Aflibercept may not demonstrate the required safety or efficacy to support an application for approval in any of these indications. We do not have proof of concept data from early-stage, double-blind, controlled clinical trials that aflibercept will be safe or effective in any of these cancer settings. In March 2010, Genentech, Inc. announced that a Phase 3 trial of its VEGF antagonist, Avastin<font style="FONT-SIZE: 70%; VE
RTICAL-ALIGN: text-top">®, in combination with chemotherapy in men with prostate cancer, did not meet its primary endpoint. This trial had a very similar design to our ongoing Phase 3 trial of aflibercept in prostate cancer.

 

     We are testing VEGF Trap-Eye in Phase 3 trials for the treatment of wet AMD and the treatment of CRVO. Although we reported positive Phase 3 trial results with VEGF Trap-Eye in wet AMD after one year of treatment, the trial will continue for an additional year and there is a risk that the results from the second year of the study could differ from the previously reported results, and such difference could delay or preclude regulatory approval. We also reported positive results in the first of two Phase 3 trials in the treatment of CRVO. The trial is continuing and there is a risk that the final results could differ from the previously reported results, and such final results could delay or preclude regulatory approval. There is also a risk that the results of the second Phase 3 trial in CRVO may demonstrate different results, and such results could delay
 or preclude regulatory approval. A number of other potential new drugs and biologics which showed promising results in initial clinical trials subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals.

 

     ARCALYST® is in Phase 3 clinical trials for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. Although we reported positive Phase 3 data from one trial in patients with gout initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy, there is a risk that the results of the other ongoing trials of ARCALYST® in patients initiating 

 

17

 



 



uric acid-lowering drug therapy will differ from the previously reported Phase 3 trial. A number of potential new drugs and biologics which showed promising results in initial clinical trials subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals.

 

     We are studying our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications in early stage clinical trials. Many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. These early stage product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied.

 

Clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. If any of our drug trials are delayed or yield unfavorable results, we will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates.

 

     We must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. We need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. Conducting these trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. These tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in the clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial p
lan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to GCPs. A clinical trial may fail because it did not include a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. A clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting.

 

     Many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of IDMCs. These independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial’s continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. Any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible IDMCs based on their review of such interim trial results. For example, in September 2009, a Phase 3 trial that was evaluating aflibercept as a 1st-line treatment for metastic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an IDMC after a planned analysis of interim efficacy 
data determined that the trial would not meet its efficacy endpoint. The recommended termination of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an IDMC could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business may be materially harmed.

 

     We will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon the drug development program. Even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including Regeneron, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for the desired indication(s) could harm the development of our product candidate(s), and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed.

 

Serious complications or side effects have occurred, and may continue to occur, in connection with the use of our approved product and in clinical trials of some of our product candidates which could cause our regulatory approval to be revoked or otherwise negatively affected or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates which could severely harm our business.

 

     During the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. Often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. Various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates. It is possible that as we test our drug candidates in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in smaller previous trials, will be reported by patients. Many times, 

 

18

 



 



side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large scale, Phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. If additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may fail or be delayed, which would severely harm our business.

 

     Aflibercept is being studied for the potential treatment of certain types of cancer and our VEGF Trap-Eye candidate is being studied in diseases of the eye. There are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of VEGF, that may limit our ability to successfully develop aflibercept and VEGF Trap-Eye. These serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of VEGF inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. In addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including VEGF Trap delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. Other VEGF blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. 
There are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like VEGF Trap-Eye, which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. These and other complications or side effects could harm the development of aflibercept for the treatment of cancer or VEGF Trap-Eye for the treatment of diseases of the eye.

 

     We have tested ARCALYST® in only a small number of patients. As more patients begin to use our product and as we test it in new disease settings, new risks and side effects associated with ARCALYST® may be discovered, and risks previously viewed as inconsequential could be determined to be significant. Like cytokine antagonists such as Kineret® (anakinra), a registered trademark of Biovitrum, Enbrel® (etanercept), a registered trademark of Amgen and Pfizer, and Remicade® (infliximab) a registered trademark of Centocor, ARCALY
ST® affects the immune defense system of the body by blocking some of its functions. Therefore, ARCALYST® may interfere with the body’s ability to fight infections. Treatment with Kineret®, a medication that works through the inhibition of IL-1, has been associated with an increased risk of serious infections, and serious, life threatening infections have been reported in patients taking ARCALYST®. These or other complications or side effects could cause regulatory authorities to revoke approvals of ARCALYST® for the treatment of CAPS or deny the approval of ARCALYST® in gout or other disease settings. Alter
natively, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of our product, or limit or abandon our efforts to develop ARCALYST® in new disease settings. Any such side effects may also result in a reduction, or even the elimination, of sales of ARCALYST® in approved indications.

 

     We are studying REGN475, a fully human monoclonal antibody to NGF, in a variety of pain indications, including osteoarthritis of the knee. In December 2010, the Company was informed by the FDA that a case confirmed as avascular necrosis of a joint was seen in another company’s anti-NGF program. The FDA believes this case, which follows previously-reported cases of joint replacements in patients on an anti-NGF drug candidate being developed by another pharmaceutical company, provides evidence to suggest a class-effect and has placed REGN475 on clinical hold. There are currently no ongoing trials with REGN475 that are either enrolling or treating patients. 

 

ARCALYST® and our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein.

 

     In addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. The antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. In some cases, the antibody can cross react with the patient’s own proteins, resulting in an “auto-immune” type disease. Whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so that there can be no assurance that neutralizing antibodies will not be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical tri
als have been completed. Antibodies directed against the receptor domains of ARCALYST® were detected in patients with CAPS after treatment with ARCALYST®. Nineteen of 55 subjects (35%) who received ARCALYST® for at least 6 weeks tested positive for treatment-emerging binding antibodies on at least one occasion. To date, no side effects related to antibodies were observed in these subjects and there were no observed effects on drug efficacy or drug levels. It is possible that as we continue to test aflibercept and VEGF Trap-Eye with more sensitive assays in different patient populations and possibly larger clinical trials, we will find that subjects given aflibercept and VEGF Trap-Eye develop antibodies to these product candidates, and may also experience side effects related to the antibodies, which could adver
sely impact the development of such candidates.

 

19

 



 



We may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use.

 

     Changes in product formulations and manufacturing processes may be required as product candidates progress in clinical development and are ultimately commercialized. If we are unable to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay the development of our product candidates. Similarly, if we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of our product or develop product formulations suitable for commercial use, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates.

 

Risks Related to Intellectual Property

 

If we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed.

 

     Our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. We seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. If our trade secrets are improperly exposed, either by our own employees or our collaborators, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of biotechnology companies involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Patent applications filed outside the United 
States may be challenged by third parties who file an opposition. Such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the European Union and are costly to defend. We have pending patent applications in the European Patent Office and it is likely that we will need to defend patent applications from third party challengers from time to time in the future. Our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. Furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming.

 

We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary rights.

 

     Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to our products in clinical development, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. Moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our VelocImmune® technology, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary position covering an ant
ibody or the antibody’s target.

 

     We are aware of patents and pending applications owned by Genentech that claim certain chimeric VEGF receptors. We do not believe that aflibercept or VEGF Trap-Eye infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications. However, Genentech could seek to initiate a lawsuit or present a counterclaim for patent infringement in the declaratory judgment action we have filed, and assert that its patents are valid and cover aflibercept or VEGF Trap-Eye or uses thereof. Genentech may be motivated to take such action(s) in an effort to impair our ability to develop and sell aflibercept or VEGF Trap-Eye, which represent potential competitive threats to Genentech’s VEGF-binding products and product candidates. We commenced in November 2010 a lawsuit against Genentech seeking a declaratory judgment that no activities relating to the Regeneron VE
GF Trap infringe any valid claim of certain Genentech patents. It is possible that the court may decide to dismiss the action on procedural grounds or reach an adverse determination that would likely materially harm our business by requiring us to seek a license, which may not be available, or precluding the manufacture, further development, or sale of aflibercept or VEGF Trap-Eye, or resulting in a damage award. Similar patent actions may be taken in other countries, which could have similar or other adverse outcomes that would materially harm our business.

 

     We are aware of patents and pending applications owned by Roche that claim antibodies to IL-6R and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis with such antibodies. We are developing REGN88, an antibody to IL-6R, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Although we do not believe that REGN88 infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications, Roche could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover REGN88.

 

20

 



 



     We are aware of a U.S. patent jointly owned by Genentech and City of Hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells. We currently produce our antibody product candidates using recombinant antibodies from host cells and may choose to produce additional antibody product candidates in this manner. Neither ARCALYST®, aflibercept, nor VEGF Trap-Eye are recombinant antibodies. If any of our antibody product candidates are produced in a manner subject to valid claims in the Genentech patent, then we may need to obtain a license from Genentech, should one be available. Genentech has licensed this patent to several different companies under confidential license agreements. If we desire a license for any of our antibody product candidates and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restr
icted in our ability to use Genentech’s techniques to make recombinant antibodies in or to import them into the United States.

 

     Further, we are aware of a number of other third party patent applications that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. We cannot assure you that our products and/or actions in manufacturing and selling our product candidates will not infringe such patents.

 

     Any patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties. In the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our clinical candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of our drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. Such a result may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend.

 

     We seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed. If any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business.

 

Regulatory and Litigation Risks

 

If we do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be able to market or sell them.

 

     We cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. If we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates, including ARCALYST® for the treatment of diseases other than CAPS or VEGF Trap-Eye for the treatment of ophthalmologic disease, the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. In the United States, we must obtain and maintain approval from the FDA for each drug we intend to sell. Obtaining FDA approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. Foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. Except for the FDA approval of ARCALYST<font style="FONT-SIZE: 70%; 
VERTICAL-ALIGN: text-top">® and EMA approval of rilonacept for the treatment of CAPS, none of our product candidates has ever received regulatory approval to be marketed and sold in the United States or any other country. We may never receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates.

 

     The FDA enforces Good Clinical Practices (GCPs) and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (CROs), principal investigators, and trial sites. If we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with GCPs, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in our studies may be deemed unreliable. This could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the FDA, or we or the FDA may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs and substantially harm our business.

 

     Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured be in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP requirements. Manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. To be successful, our products must be manufactured for development, following approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. If we or any of our product collaborators or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, or labelers are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. As a r
esult, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed.

 

21

 



 



     In addition to the FDA and other regulatory agency regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval as well as country specific regulations. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product in the United States, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of ARCALYST® or any of our product candidates in those countries.

 

If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of our marketed product and clinical candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development of our clinical candidates and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales.

 

     We and our third party providers are required to maintain compliance with cGMP, and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application to the FDA and acceptance of the change by the FDA prior to release of product. Because we produce multiple product candidates at our facility in Rensselaer, New York, there are increased risks associated with cGMP compliance. Our inability, or the inability of our third party service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cGMP compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of our marketed product. Any delay, interruption or other is
sues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our marketed product and product candidates as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cGMP compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Any finding of non-compliance could increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, and cause us to lose revenue from our marketed product.

 

If the testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims.

 

     The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. Any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who sign up for our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. We may be subject to claims by patients who use ARCALYST® that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. Our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. Moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms.

 

If we market and sell ARCALYST® in a way that violates federal or state fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties.

 

     In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. Federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. If we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws.

 

     Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses, and submitting inflated best price information to the Medica
id Rebate program.

 

22

 



 



     The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment.

 

     Even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business and financial results and condition. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws.

 

     In recent years, several states and localities, including California, the District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Maine, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, Vermont, and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar requirements are being considered in other states. In addition, as part of the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, pharmaceutical companies will be required to file reports with the federal government regarding payments made to healthcare professionals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. Nonetheless, if we are f
ound not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business and financial results and condition.

 

Our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. We may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials.

 

     As a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. The cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. If an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage.

 

Our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business and financial results and condition.

 

     We are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our Common Stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by Congress, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and, most recently, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that expressly authorized or required the SEC to adopt additional rules in these areas,
 such as shareholder approval of executive compensation (so-called “say on pay”) and proxy access. On January 25, 2011, the SEC adopted final rules concerning “say on pay”. Our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities.

 

In future years, if we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the market value of our Common Stock could be adversely affected.

 

     As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must 

 

23

 



 



attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm provided us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, which report is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, we cannot assure you that management or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to provide such an unqualified report as of future year-ends. In this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our Common Stock. In addition, if it is determined that deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls exist and that they are reasonably likely to adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information, we would likely incur additio
nal costs to remediate these deficiencies and the costs of such remediation could be material.

 

Changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business.

 

     All aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. Changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. These include:


changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates;
  

new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies;
  

changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and 
  

changes in FDA and foreign cGMPs that make it more difficult for us to manufacture our marketed product and clinical candidates in accordance with cGMPs. 


     The PPACA potential regulations easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics in the marketplace, new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business.

 

Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties

 

If our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis is terminated, our business operations and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed.

 

     We rely heavily on funding from sanofi-aventis to support our target discovery and antibody research and development programs. Sanofi-aventis has committed to pay up to $1.28 billion between 2010 and 2017 to fund our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets. In addition, sanofi-aventis funds almost all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the clinical development of antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to co-develop with us. We rely on sanofi-aventis to fund these activities. In addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to co-develop with us, such as REGN727, REGN88, REGN668, REGN421, REGN910, and REGN475, we rely on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist wit
h obtaining regulatory approval, particularly outside the United States. We also rely on sanofi-aventis to lead the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi-aventis and us. If sanofi-aventis does not elect to co-develop the antibodies that we discover or opts-out of their development, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support our antibody products. If sanofi-aventis terminates the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially harmed. We would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research 

 

24

 



 



and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. While we cannot assure you that any of the antibodies from this collaboration will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations with respect to antibodies that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these antibody product candidates will be significantly adversely affected.

 

If our collaboration with sanofi-aventis for aflibercept is terminated, or sanofi-aventis materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed.

 

     We rely heavily on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the development of aflibercept. Sanofi-aventis funds all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the aflibercept program. If the aflibercept program continues, we will rely on sanofi-aventis to assist with funding the aflibercept program, provide commercial manufacturing capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval, particularly outside the United States, and lead the commercialization of aflibercept. While we cannot assure you that aflibercept will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in cancer indications will be significantly adversely affected. Sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon 
twelve months advance notice. If sanofi-aventis were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or manufacture of aflibercept and result in substantial additional costs to us. We have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. Termination of the sanofi-aventis collaboration agreement for aflibercept would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of aflibercept.

 

If our collaboration with Bayer HealthCare for VEGF Trap-Eye is terminated, or Bayer HealthCare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop and commercialize VEGF Trap-Eye in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed.

 

     We rely heavily on Bayer HealthCare to assist with the development of VEGF Trap-Eye. Under our agreement with them, Bayer HealthCare is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global VEGF Trap-Eye development program. If the VEGF Trap-Eye program continues, we will rely on Bayer HealthCare to assist with funding the VEGF Trap-Eye development program, lead the development of VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States, obtain regulatory approval outside the United States, and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the United States. In particular, Bayer HealthCare has responsibility for selling VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States using its sales force. While we cannot assure you that VEGF Trap-Eye will ever be successfully developed and commerci
alized, if Bayer HealthCare does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States will be significantly adversely affected. Bayer HealthCare has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. If Bayer HealthCare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States and result in substantial additional costs to us. We currently have limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities outside the United States. Termination of the Bayer HealthCare 
collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of VEGF Trap-Eye.

 

Our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of ARCALYST® and our drug candidates.

 

     We depend upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi-aventis, Bayer HealthCare, and service providers such as CROs, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. If any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or in compliance 

 

25

 



 



with applicable GMPs, Good Laboratory Practices (GLPs), or GCP Standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for our product candidates.

 

     We rely on third party service providers to support the distribution of ARCALYST® and many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of ARCALYST® for the treatment of CAPS. We cannot be certain that these third parties will perform adequately. If these service providers do not perform their services adequately, our efforts to market and sell ARCALYST® for the treatment of CAPS will not be successful.

 

Risks Related to the Manufacture of Our Product Candidates

 

We have limited manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit our ability to successfully develop or commercialize our drugs.

 

     Our manufacturing facility is likely to be inadequate to produce sufficient quantities of product for commercial sale. We intend to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce the large quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products. We rely entirely on third-party manufacturers for filling and finishing services. We will have to depend on these manufacturers to deliver material on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. If we are unable to supply sufficient material on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators or contract manufacturers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed.

 

     We must expand our own manufacturing capacity to support the planned growth of our clinical pipeline. Moreover, we may expand our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our product candidates. This will require substantial additional expenditures, and we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our facility. Start-up costs can be large and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. We may be unable to develop manufacturing facilities that are sufficient to produce drug material for all our clinical trials or for commercial use. This may delay our clinical development plans and interfere with our efforts to commercialize our products. In addition, we may be unable to secure adequate filling and
 finishing services for our products. As a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed.

 

     We may also be unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies for the manufacture of ARCALYST® and our product candidates. In addition, we may face difficulties in developing or acquiring production technology and managerial personnel to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable quality assurance and environmental regulations and governmental permitting requirements.

 

Our ability to manufacture our products may be impaired if any of our manufacturing activities are found to infringe third-party patents.

 

     The ability for us to manufacture our products in our Rensselaer, New York facilities, or to utilize contract manufacturers to produce our products, depends on our ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Other parties may allege that our manufacturing activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. A judicial decision in favor of such third parties could preclude such manufacture of our products.

 

If any of our clinical programs are delayed or discontinued, we may face costs related to the unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities.

 

     We have large-scale manufacturing operations in Rensselaer, New York. We use our facilities to produce bulk product for clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. If our clinical candidates are discontinued, or their clinical development is delayed, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies.

 

26

 



 



Third-party supply failures, business interruptions, or natural disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in Rensselaer, New York could adversely affect our ability to supply our products.

 

     We manufacture all of our bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in Rensselaer, New York. We would be unable to manufacture these materials if our Rensselaer facilities were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or action, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, or other problems at the facilities.

 

     Certain raw materials necessary for the manufacture and formulation of ARCALYST® and of our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. In addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, and other services related to the manufacture of ARCALYST® and our product candidates. We would be unable to obtain these raw materials or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third-parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by
 the supplier to comply with GMPs, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply ARCALYST® or our product candidates for use in clinical trials or commercial supply, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects.

 

     Also, certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our clinical candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. There are certain European regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. If we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with European regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or interrupted.

 

Risks Related to Commercialization of Products

 

If we are unable to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future products.

 

     We are marketing and selling ARCALYST® for the treatment of CAPS ourselves in the United States, primarily through third party service providers. We have no sales or distribution personnel in the United States and have only a small staff with commercial capabilities. We currently have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities outside the United States. If we are unable to obtain those capabilities, either by developing our own organizations or entering into agreements with service providers, even if our current or future product candidates receive marketing approval, we will not be able to successfully sell those products. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenue, even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval. We cannot guarantee 
that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or that we will be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Under the terms of our collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we will rely on sanofi-aventis for sales, marketing, and distribution of aflibercept in cancer indications, should it be approved in the future by regulatory authorities for marketing. We will have to rely on a third party or devote significant resources to develop our own sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities for our other product candidates, including VEGF Trap-Eye in the United States and ARCALYST® for patients with gout initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy if such products receive regulatory approval. Though we are currently actively pursuing establishing our own sales, marketing, and distribution organization in anticipation of filing for and r
eceiving regulatory approval to market and sell in the United States VEGF Trap-Eye and ARCALYST® for patients with gout initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy, we may be unsuccessful in doing so, which would harm our business and adversely affect our future prospects.

 

There may be too few patients with CAPS to profitably commercialize ARCALYST® in this indication.

 

     Our only approved product is ARCALYST® for the treatment of CAPS, a group of rare, inherited auto-inflammatory diseases. These rare diseases affect a very small group of people. The incidence of CAPS has been reported to be approximately 1 in 1,000,000 people in the United States. Although the incidence rate of CAPS in Europe has not been reported, it is known to be a rare set of diseases. In October 2009, we received European marketing authorization for rilonacept for CAPS. In 2009, Novartis received regulatory approval in the U.S. and Europe for its IL-1 antibody product for the treatment of CAPS. Given the very rare nature of the disease and the competition from Novartis’ IL-1 antibody product, we may be unable to profitably commercialize ARCALYST<font style="FONT-SIZE: 70%; VERT
ICAL-ALIGN: text-top">® in this indication.

 

27

 



 



Even if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors have received approval for and may be marketing products with a similar mechanism of action or may enter the marketplace with better or lower cost drugs.

 

     There is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. Our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even if we achieve product commercialization, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale.

 

     Genentech has an approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin®, on the market for treating certain cancers and many different pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing VEGF antagonists, including Novartis, Amgen, Imclone/Eli Lilly, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, and GlaxoSmithKline. Many of these molecules are farther along in development than aflibercept and may offer competitive advantages over our molecule. Each of Pfizer, Onyx Pharmaceuticals (together with its partner Bayer HealthCare), and GlaxoSmithKline are marketing and selling oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature fo
rmation that fuels the growth of tumors. The marketing approvals for Genentech’s VEGF antagonist, Avastin®, and their extensive, ongoing clinical development plan for Avastin® in other cancer indications, make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in clinical trials to support aflibercept and to obtain regulatory approval of aflibercept in these cancer settings. This may delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize aflibercept. In addition, even if aflibercept is ever approved for sale for the treatment of certain cancers, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against Avastin® and the FDA approved kinase inhibitors, because doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. In addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive fo
r patients than a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that market such products.

 

     The market for eye disease products is also very competitive. Novartis and Genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a VEGF antibody fragment, Lucentis®, for the treatment of wet AMD, DME, and other eye indications. Lucentis® was approved by the FDA in June 2006 for the treatment of wet AMD and in June 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following RVO. Lucentis® was also approved by the EMA for wet AMD in January 2007 and for DME in January 2011. Many other companies are working on the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet AMD and DME including those that act by blocking VEGF and VEGF 
receptors, as well as siRNAs that modulate gene expression. In addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment of wet AMD, DME, and RVO, a third-party repackaged version of Genentech’s approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin®.

 

     The NEI and others are conducting long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing Lucentis® to Avastin® in the treatment of wet AMD. Data from these trials are expected in 2011. Even if VEGF Trap-Eye is ever approved for sale for the treatment of eye diseases, it may be difficult for our drug to compete against Lucentis®, because doctors and patients have had significant experience using this medicine. Moreover, the relatively low cost of therapy with Avastin® in patients with wet AMD presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. While we believe that aflibercept would not
 be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, if aflibercept is ever approved for the treatment of certain cancers, there is a risk that third parties will attempt to repackage aflibercept for use and sale for the treatment of wet AMD and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to the VEGF Trap-Eye if it is ever approved for sale.

 

     The availability of highly effective FDA approved TNF-antagonists such as Enbrel®, Remicade®, Humira® (adalimumab), a registered trademark of Abbott, and Simponi® (golimumab), a registered trademark of Centocor, and the IL-1 receptor antagonist Kineret®, and other marketed therapies makes it more difficult to successfully develop and commercialize ARCALYST® in other indications, and this is one of the reasons we discontinued the development of ARCALYST<font st
yle="FONT-SIZE: 70%; VERTICAL-ALIGN: text-top">® in adult rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, even if ARCALYST® is ever approved for sale in indications where TNF-antagonists are approved, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against these FDA approved TNF-antagonists because doctors and patients have had significant experience using these effective medicines. Moreover, in such indications these approved therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over ARCALYST®, such as requiring fewer injections.

 

28

 



 



     There are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other companies that are designed to block the synthesis of IL-1 or inhibit the signaling of IL-1. For example, Eli Lilly, Xoma (in collaboration with Servier), and Novartis are each developing antibodies to IL-1 and both Amgen and MedImmune are developing antibodies to the IL-1 receptor. In 2009, Novartis received regulatory approval in the U.S. and Europe for canakinumab, a fully human anti-interleukin-IL1ß antibody, for the treatment of CAPS. Canakinumab is also in development for atherosclerosis and a number of other inflammatory diseases. Novartis’ IL-1 antibody and these other drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over ARCALYST®. For example, canakinumab is dosed once every eight weeks co
mpared to the once-weekly dosing regimen for ARCALYST®. The successful development and/or commercialization of these competing molecules could adversely affect sales of ARCALYST® for CAPS and delay or impair our ability to commercialize ARCALYST® for indications other than CAPS.

 

     We are developing ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy. In January 2011, Novartis announced that the results of two Phase 3 studies with canakinumab focused on reducing pain and preventing recurrent attacks or “flares” in patients with hard-to-treat gout were positive. In addition, Novartis announced that it had submitted an application to the EMA for approval of canakinumab in gout. Novartis also announced that it plans to submit to the FDA in the first quarter of 2011 an application for approval of canakinumab in gout. Canakinumab is dosed less frequently for the treatment of CAPS and may be perceived as offering competitive advantages over ARCALYST® in
 gout by some physicians, which would make it difficult for us to successfully commercialize ARCALYST® in that disease.

 

     Currently, inexpensive, oral therapies such as analgesics and other NSAIDs are used as the standard of care to treat the symptoms of gout diseases. These established, inexpensive, orally delivered drugs will make it difficult for us to successfully commercialize ARCALYST® in these diseases.

 

     Our early-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies, which were generated using our VelocImmune® technology. Our antibody generation technologies and early-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies.

 

     Numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. Companies such as Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Amgen, Biogen Idec, Novartis, Genentech/Roche, Bristol-Myers Squib, Abbott, and GlaxoSmithKline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise human antibody sequences. 

 

     We are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early-stage product candidates. For example, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Abbott are developing antibody product candidates against NGF. Genentech/Roche is marketing an antibody against IL-6R (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and several other companies, including Centocor Ortho Biotech and Bristol-Myers Squibb, have antibodies against IL-6 in clinical development for this disease. GlaxoSmithKline, in partnership with OncoMed Pharmaceuticals, has a Dll4 antibody in clinical development for the treatment of solid tumors. Aerovance has two formulations of a biologic directed against IL-4 in clinical development. Amgen previously had an antibody 
against IL-4R in clinical development for the treatment of asthma. We believe that several companies, including Amgen and Pfizer, have development programs for antibodies against PCSK9. Amgen, Pfizer, and AstraZeneca have development programs underway for antibodies against ANG2. If any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our operations or future prospects.

 

The successful commercialization of ARCALYST® and our product candidates will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers and these payers may not agree to cover or reimburse for use of our products.

 

     Our product candidates, if commercialized, may be significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. For example, we are developing ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. Patients suffering from this gout indication are currently treated with inexpensive therapies, including NSAIDs. These existing treatment options are likely to be considerably less expensive and may be preferable to a biologic medication for some patients. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely 

 

29

 



 



affected if United States and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and payers, and other third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, do not agree to defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. If these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. Many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payers more expensive for patients, and require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. In particular, payers may impose these obstacles to coverage on higher-priced drugs, as our product candidates are likely to be.

 

     We market and sell ARCALYST® in the United States for the treatment of a group of rare genetic disorders called CAPS. We have received European Union marketing authorization for rilonacept for the treatment of CAPS. There may be too few patients with CAPS to profitably commercialize ARCALYST®. Physicians may not prescribe ARCALYST®, and CAPS patients may not be able to afford ARCALYST®, if third party payers do not agree to reimburse the cost of ARCALYST® therapy and this would adversely affect our ability to commerciali
ze ARCALYST® profitably.

 

     In addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of reimbursement for our products may also reduce our profitability. Government and other third-party payers are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. In March 2010, the PPACA and a related reconciliation bill were enacted in the U.S. This legislation imposes cost containment measures that are likely to adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our future products. The full effects of this legislation are unknown at this time and will not be known until regulations and guidance are issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and other federal and state agencies. Some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices o
f drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. It is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our products.

 

     Since ARCALYST® and our product candidates in clinical development will likely be too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates may be adversely impacted. Any limitation on the use of our products or any decrease in the price of our products will have a material negative effect on our ability to achieve profitability.

 

     In certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we may be unable to negotiate coverage, pricing, and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us. In some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the
 medicinal product on the market. Our results of operations may suffer if we are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited or delayed.

 

Risk Related to Employees

 

We are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed.

 

     We are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers and other key members of our senior management team. If we are not able to retain any of these persons or our Chairman, our business may suffer. In particular, we depend on the services of P. Roy Vagelos, M.D., the Chairman of our board of directors, Leonard Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, George D. Yancopoulos, M.D., Ph.D., our Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Regeneron Research Laboratories, and Neil Stahl, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President, Research and Development Sciences. As we prepare for commercialization in the United States of our late-stage

 

30

 



 



product candidates should they receive regulatory approval, we will also be highly dependent on the expertise and services of members of our senior management leading these commercialization efforts. There is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives.

 

Risks Related to Our Common Stock

 

Our stock price is extremely volatile.

 

     There has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies’ securities. Various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock. These factors include, by way of example:


progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical trials;
  

announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors;
  

fluctuations in our operating results;
  

third party claims that our products or technologies infringe their patents;
  

public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of ARCALYST® or any of our product candidates;
  

developments in our relationship with collaborative partners;
  

developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare;
  

large sales of our Common Stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders;
  

arrivals and departures of key personnel; and
  

general market conditions. 


     The trading price of our Common Stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our Common Stock in the market. Broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.

 

Future sales of our Common Stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings.

 

     A small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2010, our four largest shareholders plus Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D, Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 50.9% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming, in the case of our Chief Executive Officer, the conversion of his Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2010. In September 2003, sanofi-aventis (then Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc.) purchased 2,799,552 newly issued, unregistered shares of our Common Stock, and in December 2007 sanofi-aventis purchased an additional 12 million newly issued, unregistered shares of our Common Stock. Under our investor agreement, as amended, with sanofi-aventis, these shares may not be sold un
til December 20, 2017 except under limited circumstances and subject to earlier termination of these restrictions upon the occurrence of certain events. In addition, in October 2010, sanofi-aventis purchased an additional 1,017,401 shares of Common Stock in our underwritten public offering. As of December 31, 2010, sanofi-aventis beneficially owned 15,816,953 shares of our Common Stock, representing approximately 18.1% of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding. If sanofi-aventis, or our other significant shareholders or we, sell substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur exists, the market price of our Common Stock could fall. Sales of Common Stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi-aventis, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.

 

Our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval.

 

31

 



 



     Holders of Class A Stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share. As of December 31, 2010, holders of Class A Stock held 20.0% of the combined voting power of all shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock then outstanding. These shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and to effect or prevent certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. This may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our Common Stock. As of D
ecember 31, 2010:


our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 13.1% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming conversion of their Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2010, and 26.7% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2010; and
  

our four largest shareholders plus Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D. our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 50.9% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming, in the case of our Chief Executive Officer, the conversion of his Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2010. In addition, these five shareholders held 55.8% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our Chief Executive Officer which are exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2010. 


     Pursuant to an investor agreement, as amended, sanofi-aventis has agreed to vote its shares, at sanofi-aventis’ election, either as recommended by our board of directors or proportionally with the votes cast by our other shareholders, except with respect to certain change of control transactions, liquidation or dissolution, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 10% of the then outstanding shares or voting rights of Common Stock and Class A Stock, and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices.

 

The anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of New York corporate law and the contractual “standstill” provisions in our investor agreement with sanofi-aventis, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other “change in control” of us and could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock.

 

     Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the New York Business Corporation Law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. Some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. These provisions include:


authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common shareholders;
  

a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors;
  

a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors;
  

any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting;
  

any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and 


32

 



 




under the New York Business Corporation Law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to “business combinations” involving the Company and an “interested shareholder”, a plan of merger or consolidation of the Company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. See the risk factor immediately above captioned “Our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval.” 


     Until the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our antibody collaboration agreements with sanofi-aventis or our aflibercept collaboration with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis will be bound by certain “standstill” provisions, as amended, which contractually prohibit sanofi-aventis from acquiring more than certain specified percentages of our Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together) or otherwise seeking to obtain control of the Company.

 

     In addition, we have a Change in Control Severance Plan and our Chief Executive Officer has an employment agreement that provides severance benefits in the event our officers are terminated as a result of a change in control of the Company. Many of our stock options issued under our Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan may become fully vested in connection with a “change in control” of our company, as defined in the plan. These contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control.

 

ITEM 1B