Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We operate in an environment that involves a number of
    significant risks and uncertainties. We caution you to read the
    following risk factors, which have affected,
    and/or in
    the future could affect, our business, operating results,
    financial condition, and cash flows. The risks described below
    include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our
    actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in
    these forward-looking statements. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently
    deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.
    Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described
    under other captions in this report and should be considered by
    our investors.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Additional
    Financing


 



    We
    have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve
    profitability. If we continue to incur operating losses, we may
    be unable to continue our operations.


 


    From inception on January 8, 1988 through December 31,
    2006, we had a cumulative loss of $687.6 million. If we
    continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a
    profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations.
    We have no products that are available for sale and do not know
    when we will have products available for sale, if ever. In the
    absence of revenue from the sale of products or other sources,
    the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be
    predicted, our losses will continue as we conduct our research
    and development activities. Until October 31, 2006, we
    received contract manufacturing revenue from our agreement with
    Merck and, until June 30, 2005, we received contract
    research and development revenue from our agreement with The
    Procter & Gamble Company. Our agreement with
    Procter & Gamble expired in June 2005 and our agreement
    with Merck expired in October 2006. The expiration of these
    agreements has resulted in a significant loss of revenue to the
    Company.


 



    We
    will need additional funding in the future, which may not be
    available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or
    eliminate our product development programs or commercialization
    efforts.


 


    We will need to expend substantial resources for research and
    development, including costs associated with clinical testing of
    our product candidates. We believe our existing capital
    resources will enable us to meet operating needs through at
    least early 2010, without taking into consideration the
    $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible
    senior subordinated notes, which mature in October 2008;
    however, our projected revenue may decrease or our expenses may
    increase and that would lead to our capital being consumed
    significantly before such time. We will likely require
    additional financing in the future and we may not be able to
    raise such additional funds. If we are able to obtain additional
    financing through the sale of equity or convertible debt
    securities, such sales may be dilutive to our shareholders. Debt
    financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets
    or enter into covenants that would restrict our business
    activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may
    contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders.
    If we are unable to raise sufficient funds to complete the
    development of our product candidates, we may face delay,
    reduction or elimination of our research and development
    programs or preclinical or clinical trials, in which case our
    business, financial condition or results of operations may be
    materially harmed.



    
    12



Table of Contents



 



    We
    have a significant amount of debt and may have insufficient cash
    to satisfy our debt service and repayment obligations. In
    addition, the amount of our debt could impede our operations and
    flexibility.


 


    We have a significant amount of convertible debt and semi-annual
    interest payment obligations. This debt, unless converted to
    shares of our common stock, will mature in October 2008. We may
    be unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain
    funds necessary to make required payments on our debt. Even if
    we are able to meet our debt service obligations, the amount of
    debt we already have could hurt our ability to obtain any
    necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital
    expenditures, debt service requirements, or other purposes. In
    addition, our debt obligations could require us to use a
    substantial portion of cash to pay principal and interest on our
    debt, instead of applying those funds to other purposes, such as
    research and development, working capital, and capital
    expenditures.


 



    Risks
    Related to Development of Our Product Candidates


 



    Successful
    development of any of our product candidates is highly
    uncertain.


 


    Only a small minority of all research and development programs
    ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. We have
    never developed a drug that has been approved for marketing and
    sale, and we may never succeed in developing an approved drug.
    Even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and effectiveness of
    any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the
    necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial
    success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their
    acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party
    payers and on our partners’ ability to successfully
    manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. Our
    product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion
    or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are
    generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule
    delivery. If our products are not successfully commercialized,
    we will not be able to recover the significant investment we
    have made in developing such products and our business would be
    severely harmed.


 


    We intend to study our lead product candidates, the VEGF Trap,
    VEGF Trap-Eye, and IL-1 Trap, in a wide variety of indications.
    We intend to study the VEGF Trap in a variety of cancer
    settings, the VEGF Trap-Eye in different eye diseases and
    ophthalmologic indications, and the IL-1 Trap in a variety of
    systemic inflammatory disorders. Many of these current trials
    are exploratory studies designed to identify what diseases and
    uses, if any, are best suited for our product candidates. It is
    likely that our product candidates will not demonstrate the
    requisite efficacy
    and/or
    safety profile to support continued development for most of the
    indications that are to be studied. In fact, our product
    candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and safety
    profile to support the continued development for any of the
    indications or uses.


 



    Clinical
    trials required for our product candidates are expensive and
    time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. If any of
    our drug trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we
    will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory
    approval for our product candidates.


 


    We must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates
    before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell
    them. We need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and
    human clinical trials. Conducting these trials is a lengthy,
    time-consuming, and expensive process. These tests and trials
    may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including,
    among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate
    safety or efficacy, the development of serious or
    life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or
    connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in
    enrolling and maintaining subjects in the clinical trial, lack
    of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator
    drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors
    and other consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the
    trial plan or protocol. A clinical trial may fail because it did
    not include a sufficient number of patients to detect the
    endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. A
    clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the
    investigational drug included in the trial were either too low
    or too high to determine the optimal effect of the
    investigational drug in the disease setting. For example, we are
    studying higher doses of the IL-1 Trap in different diseases
    after a Phase 2 trial using lower doses of the IL-1 Trap in
    subjects with rheumatoid arthritis failed to achieve its primary
    endpoint.


 


    We will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test
    favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and
    time consuming, or abandon the drug development program. Even if
    we obtain positive results



    
    13



Table of Contents




    from preclinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same
    success in future trials. Many companies in the
    biopharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered
    significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising
    results have been obtained in earlier trials. The failure of
    clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for the
    desired indication(s) could harm the development of the product
    candidate(s), and our business, financial condition, and results
    of operations may be materially harmed.


 



    The
    data from the Phase 3 clinical program for the IL-1 Trap in
    CAPS (Cryopyrin Associated Periodic Syndromes) may be inadequate
    to support regulatory approval for commercialization of the IL-1
    Trap.


 


    The efficacy and safety data from the Phase 3 clinical
    program for the IL-1 Trap in CAPS may be inadequate to support
    approval for its commercialization in this indication. Moreover,
    if the safety data from the ongoing clinical trials testing the
    IL-1 Trap are not satisfactory, we may not proceed with the
    filing of a biological license application, or BLA, for the IL-1
    Trap or we may be forced to delay the filing. The FDA and other
    regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of our
    clinical trial data, which could delay, limit, or prevent
    regulatory approval or clearance.


 


    Further, before a product candidate is approved for marketing,
    our manufacturing facilities must be inspected by the FDA and
    the FDA will not approve the product for marketing if we or our
    third party manufacturers are not in compliance with current
    good manufacturing practices. Even if the FDA and similar
    foreign regulatory authorities do grant marketing approval for
    the IL-1 Trap, they may pose restrictions on the use or
    marketing of the product, or may require us to conduct
    additional post-marketing trials. These restrictions and
    requirements would likely result in increased expenditures and
    lower revenues and may restrict our ability to commercialize the
    IL-1 Trap profitably.


 


    In addition to the FDA and other regulatory agency regulations
    in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign
    regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials,
    marketing and approval for drugs, and commercial sales and
    distribution of drugs in foreign countries. The foreign
    regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated
    with FDA approval as well as country-specific regulations.
    Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product in the
    United States, we must obtain approval by the comparable
    regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can
    commence clinical trials or marketing of the IL-1 Trap in those
    countries.


 



    The
    development of serious or life-threatening side effects with any
    of our product candidates would lead to delay or discontinuation
    of development, which could severely harm our
    business.


 


    During the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes
    in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts,
    to their study doctor. Often, it is not possible to determine
    whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these
    conditions. Various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have
    been reported from
    time-to-time
    during clinical trials of our product candidates. It is possible
    as we test our current drug candidates in larger, longer, and
    more extensive clinical programs, illnesses, injuries, and
    discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as
    conditions that did not occur or went undetected in smaller
    previous trials, will be reported by patients. Many times, side
    effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are
    tested in large scale, Phase 3 clinical trials or, in some
    cases, after they are made available to patients after approval.
    If additional clinical experience indicates that any of our
    product candidates has many side effects or causes serious or
    life-threatening side effects, the development of the product
    candidate may fail or be delayed, which would severely harm our
    business.


 


    Our VEGF Trap is being studied for the potential treatment of
    certain types of cancer and our VEGF Trap-Eye candidate is being
    studied in diseases of the eye. There are many potential safety
    concerns associated with significant blockade of vascular
    endothelial growth factor, or VEGF. These risks, based on the
    clinical and preclinical experience of systemically delivered
    VEGF inhibitors, including the systemic delivery of the VEGF
    Trap, include bleeding, hypertension, and proteinuria. These
    serious side effects and other serious side effects have been
    reported in our systemic VEGF Trap studies in cancer and
    diseases of the eye. In addition, patients given infusions of
    any protein, including the VEGF Trap delivered through
    intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity
    reactions or infusion reactions. Other VEGF blockers have
    reported side effects that became evident only after large scale
    trials or after marketing approval and large numbers of patients
    were treated. These include side effects that we have not yet
    seen in our trials such as heart attack and stroke. These and
    other



    
    14



Table of Contents




    complications or side effects could harm the development of the
    VEGF Trap for the treatment of cancer or the VEGF Trap-Eye for
    the treatment of diseases of the eye.


 


    It is possible that safety or tolerability concerns may arise as
    we test higher doses of the IL-1 Trap in patients with other
    inflammatory diseases and disorders. Like TNF-antagonists such
    as
    Enbrel®
    (Amgen) and
    Remicade®
    (Centocor), the IL-1 Trap affects the immune defense system of
    the body by blocking some of its functions. Therefore, there may
    be an increased risk for infections to develop in patients
    treated with the IL-1 Trap. In addition, patients given
    infusions of the IL-1 Trap have developed hypersensitivity
    reactions or infusion reactions. These or other complications or
    side effects could impede or result in us abandoning the
    development of the IL-1 Trap.


 



    Our
    product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that
    could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of
    harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic
    protein.


 


    In addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and
    regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the
    administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an
    immune response, resulting in the production of antibodies
    against the therapeutic protein. The antibodies can have no
    effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the
    protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a
    therapeutic effect. In some cases, the antibody can cross react
    with the patient’s own proteins, resulting in an
    “auto-immune” type disease. Whether antibodies will be
    created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical
    experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed,
    so that there can be no assurance that neutralizing antibodies
    will not be detected at a later date — in some cases
    even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. Subjects
    who received IL-1 Trap in clinical trials have developed
    antibodies. It is possible that as we test the VEGF Trap and
    VEGF Trap-Eye with more sensitive assays in different patient
    populations and larger clinical trials, we will find that
    subjects given the VEGF Trap and VEGF Trap-Eye produce
    antibodies to these product candidates, which could adversely
    impact the development of such candidates.


 



    We may
    be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in
    a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial
    use.


 


    Changes in product formulations and manufacturing processes may
    be required as product candidates progress in clinical
    development and are ultimately commercialized. For example, we
    are currently testing a new formulation of the VEGF Trap-Eye in
    a Phase 1 Trial. If we are unable to develop suitable
    product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large
    scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including the
    VEGF Trap, VEGF Trap-Eye, and IL-1 Trap, we may be unable to
    supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would
    delay the development of our product candidates. Similarly, if
    we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of our product or
    develop product formulations suitable for commercial use, we
    will not be able to successfully commercialize our product
    candidates.


 



    Risks
    Related to Intellectual Property


 



    If we
    cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our
    patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our
    business and competitive position will be harmed.


 


    Our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology
    and other information that we protect as trade secrets. We seek
    to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through
    confidentiality agreements. If our trade secrets are improperly
    exposed, either by our own employees or our collaborators, it
    would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. We
    will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized
    use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are
    covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively
    maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of
    biotechnology companies involves complex legal and factual
    questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted
    with certainty. Our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or
    circumvented. Patent applications filed outside the United
    States may be challenged by third parties who file an
    opposition. Such opposition proceedings are increasingly common
    in the European Union and are costly to defend. We have patent
    applications that are being opposed and it is likely that we
    will need to defend additional patent applications in the
    future. Our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary
    position or



    
    15



Table of Contents




    competitive advantages against competitors. Furthermore, even if
    the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our
    intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time
    consuming.


 



    We may
    be restricted in our development
    and/or
    commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage
    awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or
    other proprietary rights.


 


    Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to
    operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary
    rights of third parties. Other parties may allege that they have
    blocking patents to our products in clinical development, either
    because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition
    of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. Moreover,
    other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to
    antibody products made using our VelocImmune technology, either
    because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or
    because of a proprietary position covering an antibody or the
    antibody’s target.


 


    We are aware of patents and pending applications owned by
    Genentech that claim certain chimeric VEGF receptor
    compositions. Although we do not believe that the VEGF Trap or
    VEGF Trap-Eye infringes any valid claim in these patents or
    patent applications, Genentech could initiate a lawsuit for
    patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover
    the VEGF Trap or VEGF Trap-Eye. Genentech may be motivated to
    initiate such a lawsuit at some point in an effort to impair our
    ability to develop and sell the VEGF Trap or VEGF Trap-Eye,
    which represents a potential competitive threat to
    Genentech’s VEGF-binding products and product candidates.
    An adverse determination by a court in any such potential patent
    litigation would likely materially harm our business by
    requiring us to seek a license, which may not be available, or
    resulting in our inability to manufacture, develop and sell the
    VEGF Trap or VEGF Trap-Eye or in a damage award.


 


    Any patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent
    us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug
    candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly
    issued patents of third parties. In the event that the
    manufacture, use, or sale of any of our clinical candidates
    infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of
    third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product
    development, manufacturing, and commercialization of our drugs
    and may be required to pay costly damages. Such a result may
    materially harm our business, financial condition, and results
    of operations. Legal disputes are likely to be costly and time
    consuming to defend.


 


    We seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment,
    such licenses are needed. If any licenses are required, we may
    not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable
    terms, if at all. The failure to obtain any such license could
    prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of
    our product candidates, which could severely harm our business.


 



    Regulatory
    and Litigation Risks


 



    If we
    do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we
    will not be able to market or sell them.


 


    We cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval.
    If we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our
    product candidates, the value of our company and our results of
    operations will be harmed. In the United States, we must obtain
    and maintain approval from the FDA for each drug we intend to
    sell. Obtaining FDA approval is typically a lengthy and
    expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. Foreign
    governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and
    approval in any country is likely to be a lengthy and expensive
    process, and approval is highly uncertain. None of our product
    candidates has ever received regulatory approval to be marketed
    and sold in the United States or any other country. We may never
    receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates.


 


    Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA
    requires that the facilities at which the product will be
    manufactured be in compliance with current good manufacturing
    practices, or cGMP requirements. Manufacturing product
    candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is
    complex, time-consuming, and expensive. To be successful, our
    products must be manufactured for development, and following
    approval in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory
    requirements, and at competitive costs. If we or any of our
    product collaborators or third-party manufacturers, product
    packagers, or labelers are unable to maintain regulatory



    
    16



Table of Contents




    compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory sanctions, including,
    among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for
    a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing
    approval. As a result, our business, financial condition, and
    results of operations may be materially harmed.


 



    If the
    testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject
    to costly and damaging product liability claims. We could also
    face costly and damaging claims arising from employment law,
    securities law, environmental law, or other applicable laws
    governing our operations.


 


    The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use
    in people expose us to product liability risk. Any informed
    consent or waivers obtained from people who are enrolled in our
    clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of
    litigation. Our product liability insurance may not cover all
    potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability
    arising from any such litigation. Moreover, we may not have
    access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our
    insurance on acceptable terms.


 



    Our
    operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to
    environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. We may
    incur substantial liability arising from our activities
    involving the use of hazardous materials.


 


    As a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing
    operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health,
    and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the
    use of hazardous materials. Our research and development and
    manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of
    chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous
    materials. The cost of compliance with environmental, health,
    and safety regulations is substantial. If an accident involving
    these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we
    could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face
    regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or
    insurance coverage.


 



    Changes
    in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are
    likely to continue to increase, our costs.


 


    The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002,
    has required changes in some of our corporate governance,
    securities disclosure and compliance practices. Pursuant to the
    requirements of that Act, the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market
    have promulgated rules and listing standards covering a variety
    of subjects. Compliance with these new rules and listing
    standards has increased our legal costs, and significantly
    increased our accounting and auditing costs, and we expect these
    costs to continue. These developments may make it more difficult
    and more expensive for us to obtain directors’ and
    officers’ liability insurance. Likewise, these developments
    may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain
    qualified members of our board of directors, particularly
    independent directors, or qualified executive officers.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties


 



    If our
    collaboration with sanofi-aventis for the VEGF Trap is
    terminated, our business operations and our ability to develop,
    manufacture, and commercialize the VEGF Trap in the time
    expected, or at all, would be harmed.


 


    We rely heavily on sanofi-aventis to assist with the development
    of the VEGF Trap oncology program. Sanofi-aventis funds all of
    the development expenses incurred by both companies in
    connection with the VEGF Trap oncology program. If the VEGF Trap
    oncology program continues, we will rely on sanofi-aventis to
    assist with funding the VEGF Trap program, provide commercial
    manufacturing capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials,
    obtain regulatory approval, particularly outside the United
    States, and provide sales and marketing support. While we cannot
    assure you that the VEGF Trap will ever be successfully
    developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform
    its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to
    develop, manufacture, and commercialize the VEGF Trap in cancer
    indications will be significantly adversely affected.
    Sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate its collaboration
    agreement with us at any time upon twelve months advance notice.
    If sanofi-aventis were to terminate its collaboration agreement
    with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace
    those of our partner, which could cause significant delays in
    the development
    and/or
    manufacture of the VEGF Trap and result in



    
    17



Table of Contents




    substantial additional costs to us. We have no sales, marketing,
    or distribution capabilities and would have to develop or
    outsource these capabilities. Termination of the sanofi-aventis
    collaboration agreement would create substantial new and
    additional risks to the successful development of the VEGF Trap
    oncology program.


 



    If our
    collaboration with Bayer HealthCare for the VEGF Trap-Eye is
    terminated, our business operations and our ability to develop,
    manufacture, and commercialize the VEGF Trap-Eye in the time
    expected, or at all, would be harmed.


 


    We will rely heavily on Bayer HealthCare to assist with the
    development of the VEGF Trap-Eye. Under our agreement with them,
    Bayer HealthCare is required to fund approximately half of the
    development expenses incurred by both companies in connection
    with the global VEGF Trap-Eye development program. If the VEGF
    Trap-Eye program continues, we will rely on Bayer HealthCare to
    assist with funding the VEGF Trap-Eye development program,
    providing assistance with the enrollment and monitoring of
    clinical trials conducted outside the United States, obtaining
    regulatory approval outside the United States, and providing
    sales, marketing and commercial support for the product outside
    the United States. In particular, Bayer HealthCare has
    responsibility for selling VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United
    States using its sales force. While we cannot assure you that
    the VEGF Trap-Eye will ever be successfully developed and
    commercialized, if Bayer HealthCare does not perform its
    obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to
    develop, manufacture, and commercialize the VEGF Trap-Eye
    outside the United States will be significantly adversely
    affected. Bayer HealthCare has the right to terminate its
    collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve
    months advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving
    rise to termination. If Bayer HealthCare were to terminate its
    collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources
    or skills to replace those of our partner, which could cause
    significant delays in the development
    and/or
    commercialization of the VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States
    and result in substantial additional costs to us. We have no
    sales, marketing, or distribution capabilities and would have to
    develop or outsource these capabilities outside the United
    States. Termination of the Bayer HealthCare collaboration
    agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to
    the successful development of the VEGF Trap-Eye development
    program.


 



    Our
    collaborators and service providers may fail to perform
    adequately in their efforts to support the development,
    manufacture, and commercialization of our drug
    candidates.


 


    We depend upon third-party collaborators, including
    sanofi-aventis, Bayer HealthCare, and service providers such as
    clinical research organizations, outside testing laboratories,
    clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers and
    product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the development
    of our product candidates. If any of our existing collaborators
    or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with
    us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services
    under an agreement in a timely manner or at all, we could
    experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the
    development or commercialization of our product candidates.


 



    Risks
    Related to the Manufacture of Our Product Candidates


 



    We
    have limited manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit our
    ability to successfully develop or commercialize our
    drugs.


 


    Our manufacturing facility is likely to be inadequate to produce
    sufficient quantities of product for commercial sale. We intend
    to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract
    manufacturers, to produce the large quantities of drug material
    needed for commercialization of our products. We rely entirely
    on third-party manufacturers for filling and finishing services.
    We will have to depend on these manufacturers to deliver
    material on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory
    requirements. If we are unable to supply sufficient material on
    acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or
    difficulties in our relationships with our corporate
    collaborators or contract manufacturers, our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed.


 


    We may expand our own manufacturing capacity to support
    commercial production of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or
    API, for our product candidates. This will require substantial
    additional funds, and we will need to hire and train significant
    numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our
    facility.
    Start-up
    costs can be



    
    18



Table of Contents




    large and
    scale-up
    entails significant risks related to process development and
    manufacturing yields. We may be unable to develop manufacturing
    facilities that are sufficient to produce drug material for
    clinical trials or commercial use. In addition, we may be unable
    to secure adequate filling and finishing services to support our
    products. As a result, our business, financial condition, and
    results of operations may be materially harmed.


 


    We may be unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies for
    the manufacture of our product candidates. In addition, we may
    face difficulties in developing or acquiring production
    technology and managerial personnel to manufacture sufficient
    quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in
    compliance with applicable quality assurance and environmental
    regulations and governmental permitting requirements.


 



    If any
    of our clinical programs are discontinued, we may face costs
    related to the unused capacity at our manufacturing
    facilities.


 


    We have large-scale manufacturing operations in Rensselaer, New
    York. We use our facilities to produce bulk product for clinical
    and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations.
    If our clinical candidates are discontinued, we will have to
    absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and
    inefficiencies.


 



    Certain
    of our raw materials are single-sourced from third parties;
    third-party supply failures could adversely affect our ability
    to supply our products.


 


    Certain raw materials necessary for manufacturing and
    formulation of our product candidates are provided by
    single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. We would be
    unable to obtain these raw materials for an indeterminate period
    of time if these third-party single-source suppliers were to
    cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these
    materials or products to us for any reason, including due to
    regulatory requirements or action, due to adverse financial
    developments at or affecting the supplier, or due to labor
    shortages or disputes. This, in turn, could materially and
    adversely affect our ability to manufacture our product
    candidates for use in clinical trials, which could materially
    and adversely affect our business and future prospects.


 


    Also, certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture
    and the formulation of our clinical candidates may be derived
    from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine
    serum, and human serum albumin. There are certain European
    regulatory restrictions on using these biological source
    materials. If we are required to substitute for these sources to
    comply with European regulatory requirements, our clinical
    development activities may be delayed or interrupted.


 



    Risks
    Related to Commercialization of Products


 



    If we
    are unable to establish sales, marketing, and distribution
    capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties to do
    so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future
    products.


 


    We have no sales or distribution personnel or capabilities and
    have only a small staff with marketing capabilities. If we are
    unable to obtain those capabilities, either by developing our
    own organizations or entering into agreements with service
    providers, we will not be able to successfully sell any products
    that we may obtain regulatory approval for and bring to market
    in the future. In that event, we will not be able to generate
    significant revenue, even if our product candidates are
    approved. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the
    qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or that we will
    be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with
    third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Under the
    terms of our collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we
    currently rely on sanofi-aventis for sales, marketing, and
    distribution of the VEGF Trap in cancer indications, should it
    be approved in the future by regulatory authorities for
    marketing. We will have to rely on a third party or devote
    significant resources to develop our own sales, marketing, and
    distribution capabilities for our other product candidates,
    including the VEGF Trap-Eye in the United States, and we may be
    unsuccessful in developing our own sales, marketing, and
    distribution organization.



    
    19



Table of Contents



 



    Even
    if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their
    commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors
    have received approval for products with the same mechanism of
    action, and competitors may get to the marketplace before we do
    with better or lower cost drugs or the market for our product
    candidates may be too small to support commercialization or
    sufficient profitability.


 


    We face substantial competition from pharmaceutical,
    biotechnology, and chemical companies. Many of our competitors
    have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical
    product development and manufacturing capabilities, and
    financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. Our
    smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position
    if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form
    collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical
    companies. Even if we achieve product commercialization, our
    competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product
    commercialization before our products are approved for marketing
    and sale.


 


    Genentech has an approved VEGF antagonist,
    Avastin®
    (Genentech), on the market for treating certain cancers and a
    number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working
    to develop competing VEGF antagonists, including Novartis, OSI
    Pharmaceuticals, and Pfizer. Many of these molecules are further
    along in development than the VEGF Trap and may offer
    competitive advantages over our molecule. Novartis has an
    ongoing Phase 3 clinical development program evaluating an
    orally delivered VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor in different
    cancer settings. Each of Pfizer and Onyx Pharmaceuticals
    (together with its partner Bayer) has received approval from the
    FDA to market and sell an oral medication that targets tumor
    cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth
    of tumors. The marketing approvals for Genentech’s VEGF
    antagonist, Avastin, and their extensive, ongoing clinical
    development plan for Avastin in other cancer indications, may
    make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in clinical
    trials to support the VEGF Trap and to obtain regulatory
    approval of the VEGF Trap in these cancer settings. This may
    delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and
    commercialize the VEGF Trap. In addition, even if the VEGF Trap
    is ever approved for sale for the treatment of certain cancers,
    it will be difficult for our drug to compete against Avastin and
    the FDA approved kinase inhibitors, because doctors and patients
    will have significant experience using these medicines. In
    addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive
    for patients than a biologic medication, providing a competitive
    advantage to companies that market such products.


 


    The market for eye disease products is also very competitive.
    Novartis and Genentech are collaborating on the
    commercialization and further development of a VEGF antibody
    fragment
    (Lucentis®)
    for the treatment of age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD)
    and other eye indications that was approved by the FDA in June
    2006. OSI Pharmaceuticals and Pfizer are marketing an approved
    VEGF inhibitor
    (Macugen®)
    for wet AMD. Many other companies are working on the development
    of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet AMD
    that act by blocking VEGF, VEGF receptors, and through the use
    of soluble ribonucleic acids (sRNAs) that modulate gene
    expression. In addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label a
    third-party reformulated version of Genentech’s approved
    VEGF antagonist, Avastin, with success for the treatment of wet
    AMD. The National Eye Institute recently has received funding
    for a Phase 3 trial to compare Lucentis to Avastin in the
    treatment of wet AMD. The marketing approval of Macugen and
    Lucentis and the potential off-label use of Avastin make it more
    difficult for us to enroll patients in our clinical trials and
    successfully develop the VEGF Trap-Eye. Even if the VEGF
    Trap-Eye is ever approved for sale for the treatment of eye
    diseases, it may be difficult for our drug to compete against
    Lucentis or Macugen, because doctors and patients will have
    significant experience using these medicines. Moreover, the
    relatively low cost of therapy with Avastin in patients with wet
    AMD presents a further competitive challenge in this indication.


 


    The availability of highly effective FDA approved
    TNF-antagonists such as
    Enbrel®
    (Amgen),
    Remicade®
    (Centocor), and
    Humira®
    (Abbott Laboratories), and the IL-1 receptor antagonist
    Kineret®
    (Amgen), and other marketed therapies, makes it more difficult
    to successfully develop and commercialize the IL-1 Trap. This is
    one of the reasons we discontinued the development of the IL-1
    Trap in adult rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, even if the
    IL-1 Trap is ever approved for sale, it will be difficult for
    our drug to compete against these FDA approved TNF-antagonists
    in indications where both are useful because doctors and
    patients will have significant experience using these effective
    medicines. Moreover, in such indications these approved
    therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over the IL-1
    Trap, such as requiring fewer injections.



    
    20



Table of Contents



 


    There are both small molecules and antibodies in development by
    third parties that are designed to block the synthesis of
    interleukin-1 or inhibit the signaling of interleukin-1. For
    example, Eli Lilly and Company and Novartis are each developing
    antibodies to interleukin-1 and Amgen is developing an antibody
    to the interleukin-1 receptor. These drug candidates could offer
    competitive advantages over the IL-1 Trap. The successful
    development of these competing molecules could delay or impair
    our ability to successfully develop and commercialize the IL-1
    Trap. For example, we may find it difficult to enroll patients
    in clinical trials for the IL-1 Trap if the companies developing
    these competing interleukin-1 inhibitors commence clinical
    trials in the same indications.


 


    We are developing the IL-1 Trap for the treatment of a spectrum
    of rare diseases associated with mutations in the CIAS1
    gene. These rare genetic disorders affect a small group of
    people, estimated to be between several hundred and a few
    thousand. There may be too few patients with these genetic
    disorders to profitably commercialize the IL-1 Trap in this
    indication.


 



    The
    successful commercialization of our product candidates will
    depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these
    products from third-party payers and these payers may not agree
    to cover or reimburse for use of our
    products.


 


    Our products, if commercialized, may be significantly more
    expensive than traditional drug treatments. Our future revenues
    and profitability will be adversely affected if United States
    and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and
    payers, and other third-party payers, including Medicare and
    Medicaid, do not agree to defray or reimburse the cost of our
    products to the patients. If these entities refuse to provide
    coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or
    provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our
    products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and
    physicians may not prescribe them. Many third-party payers cover
    only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such
    payer more expensive for patients, and require prior
    authorization or failure on another type of treatment before
    covering a particular drug. Payers may especially impose these
    obstacles to coverage on higher-priced drugs, as our product
    candidates are likely to be.


 


    We intend to file an application with the FDA seeking approval
    to market the IL-1 Trap for the treatment of a spectrum of rare
    genetic disorders called CAPS. There may be too few patients
    with CAPS to profitably commercialize the IL-1 Trap. Physicians
    may not prescribe the IL-1 Trap and CAPS patients may not be
    able to afford the IL-1 Trap if third party payers do not agree
    to reimburse the cost of IL-1 Trap therapy and this would
    adversely affect our ability to commercialize the IL-1 Trap
    profitably.


 


    In addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of
    reimbursement for our products may also reduce our
    profitability. In the United States, there have been, and we
    expect will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and
    reduce healthcare costs. Government and other third-party payers
    are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and
    increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage
    and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs.


 


    Since our products, including the IL-1 Trap, will likely be too
    expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance
    coverage, if our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage
    and reimbursement by third-party payers our ability to
    successfully commercialize our product candidates may be
    adversely impacted. Any limitation on the use of our products or
    any decrease in the price of our products will have a material
    adverse effect on our ability to achieve profitability.


 


    In certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage and level of
    reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental
    control, and we may be unable to negotiate coverage, pricing,
    and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us. In some
    foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be
    approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements
    governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For
    example, the European Union provides options for its member
    states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which
    their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement
    and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A
    member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal
    product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect
    controls on the profitability of the company placing the
    medicinal product on the market. Our results of operations may
    suffer if we are unable to market our products in foreign
    countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in
    foreign countries is limited.



    
    21



Table of Contents



 



    Risk
    Related to Employees


 



    We are
    dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and
    retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and
    commercial organizations, our business will be
    harmed.


 


    We are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers. If
    we are not able to retain any of these persons or our Chairman,
    our business may suffer. In particular, we depend on the
    services of P. Roy Vagelos, M.D., the Chairman of our board
    of directors, Leonard Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., our
    President and Chief Executive Officer, George D.
    Yancopoulos, M.D., Ph.D., our Executive Vice
    President, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Regeneron
    Research Laboratories, and Neil Stahl, Ph.D., our Senior
    Vice President, Research and Development Sciences. There is
    intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified
    scientists and managerial personnel in the development,
    manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. We may not be able
    to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel
    necessary for developing our business.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Common Stock


 



    Our
    stock price is extremely volatile.


 


    There has been significant volatility in our stock price and
    generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies’
    securities. Various factors and events may have a significant
    impact on the market price of our common stock. These factors
    include, by way of example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical trials;



 


     
        • 

    
    announcement of technological innovations or product candidates
    by us or competitors;



 


     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in our operating results;



 


     
        • 

    
    public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of our product
    candidates;



 


     
        • 

    
    developments in our relationship with collaborative partners;



 


     
        • 

    
    developments in the biotechnology industry or in government
    regulation of healthcare;



 


     
        • 

    
    large sales of our common stock by our executive officers,
    directors, or significant shareholders;



 


     
        • 

    
    arrivals and departures of key personnel; and



 


     
        • 

    
    general market conditions.





 


    The trading price of our common stock has been, and could
    continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to
    these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of
    a large amount of our common stock in the market. Broad market
    fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our
    common stock.


 



    In
    future years, if we or our independent registered public
    accounting firm are unable to conclude that our internal control
    over financial reporting is effective, the market value of our
    common stock could be adversely affected.


 


    As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to
    include a report of management on the Company’s internal
    control over financial reporting in their annual reports on
    Form 10-K
    that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness
    of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition,
    the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our
    financial statements must attest to and report on
    management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our
    internal control over financial reporting. Our independent
    registered public accounting firm provided us with an
    unqualified report as to our assessment and the effectiveness of
    our internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006, which report is included in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.
    However, we cannot assure you that management or our independent
    registered public accounting firm will be able to provide such
    an assessment or unqualified report as of future year-ends. In
    this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability
    of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in
    the market value of our common stock.



    
    22



Table of Contents



 



    Future
    sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us
    may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise
    funds in new share offerings.


 


    A small number of our shareholders beneficially own a
    substantial amount of our common stock. As of December 31,
    2006, our seven largest shareholders, including sanofi-aventis,
    beneficially owned 41.1% of our outstanding shares of Common
    Stock, assuming, in the case of Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D.
    Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer, and P. Roy Vagelos, M.D.,
    our Chairman, the conversion of their Class A Stock into
    Common Stock and the exercise of all options held by them which
    are exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2006.
    As of December 31, 2006, sanofi-aventis owned
    2,799,552 shares of Common Stock, representing 4.4% of the
    shares of Common Stock then outstanding. Under our stock
    purchase agreement with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis may sell
    no more than 500,000 of these shares in any calendar quarter. If
    sanofi-aventis, or our other significant shareholders or we,
    sell substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public
    market, or the perception that such sales may occur exists, the
    market price of our Common Stock could fall. Sales of Common
    Stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi-aventis,
    also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by
    selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a
    time and price that we deem appropriate.


 



    Our
    existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence
    over matters requiring shareholder approval.


 


    Holders of Class A Stock, who are generally the
    shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our
    initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share,
    while holders of Common Stock are entitled to one vote per
    share. As of December 31, 2006, holders of Class A
    Stock held 26.5% of the combined voting power of all of Common
    Stock and Class A Stock then outstanding. These
    shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to
    significantly influence the election of our directors and to
    effect or prevent certain corporate transactions that require
    majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes,
    including mergers and other business combinations. This may
    result in our company taking corporate actions that you may not
    consider to be in your best interest and may affect the price of
    our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2006:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our current officers and directors beneficially owned 13.3% of
    our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming conversion of
    their Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of
    all options held by such persons which are exercisable within
    60 days of December 31, 2006, and 30.5% of the
    combined voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock
    and Class A Stock, assuming the exercise of all options
    held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days
    of December 31, 2006; and



 


     
        • 

    
    our seven largest shareholders beneficially owned 41.1% of our
    outstanding shares of Common Stock assuming, in the case of
    Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., our Chief Executive
    Officer, and P. Roy Vagelos, M.D., our Chairman, the conversion
    of their Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise
    of all options held by them which are exercisable within
    60 days of December 31, 2006. In addition, these seven
    shareholders held 48.7% of the combined voting power of our
    outstanding shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock,
    assuming the exercise of all options held by our Chief Executive
    Officer and our Chairman which are exercisable within
    60 days of December 31, 2006.





 



    The
    anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and
    of New York corporate law, could deter, delay, or prevent an
    acquisition or other “change in control” of us and
    could adversely affect the price of our common
    stock.


 


    Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our
    by-laws and the New York Business Corporation Law contain
    various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or
    preventing a change in control of our company or our management
    that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. Some of
    these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it
    more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors
    and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also
    limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the
    future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock,
    which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the
    board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with
    rights senior to those of our common shareholders;






    
    23



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three
    successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors;



 


     
        • 

    
    a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for
    cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty
    percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for
    directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the
    board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors;



 


     
        • 

    
    any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of
    shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to
    such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of
    which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at
    a duly convened meeting;



 


     
        • 

    
    any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual
    meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this
    intention in writing and meet various other
    requirements; and



 


     
        • 

    
    under the New York Business Corporation Law, a plan of merger or
    consolidation of the Company must be approved by two-thirds of
    the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon.
    See the risk factor immediately above captioned “Our
    existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence
    over matters requiring shareholder approval.”





 


    In addition, we have a Change in Control Severance Plan and our
    chief executive officer has an employment agreement that
    provides severance benefits in the event our officers are
    terminated as a result of a change in control of the Company.
    Many of our stock options issued under our 2000 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan may become fully vested in connection with a
    “change in control” of our company, as defined in the
    plan.







 




    
    



    
    Item 1B