Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Risks Related to
Commercialization of EYLEA® for the Treatment of Wet AMD and Risks
Related to Commercialization of Products”). Our competitors include Genentech (a
member of the Roche group), Novartis, Pfizer Inc., Bayer HealthCare, Onyx
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, Abbott Laboratories, Sanofi, Merck
& Co., Inc., Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Johnson &
Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline, and others. Many of our competitors have substantially
greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development and
manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than
we do. Competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more
significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form
collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even
if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of
our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us
or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely
affects our activities or products. Our ability to compete will depend, to a
great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates,
complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial
quantities of the product to the market. Competition among product candidates
approved for sale will also be based on efficacy, safety, reliability,
availability, price, patent position, and other factors.
    
EYLEA®. The market for eye
disease products is very competitive. Novartis and Genentech are collaborating
on the commercialization and further development of a VEGF antibody fragment
(Lucentis®) for the treatment of wet AMD, DME, RVO, and other eye
indications. Lucentis® was approved by the FDA in June 2006 for the
treatment of wet AMD and in June 2010 for the treatment of macular edema
following retinal vein occlusion (RVO). Lucentis® was approved by the
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for wet AMD in January 2007, for the treatment
of DME in January 2011, and for the treatment of RVO in June 2011. Many other
companies, including Genentech, are working on the development of product
candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet AMD,
DME, and RVO including those that act by blocking VEGF and VEGF receptors, as
well as use of small interfering ribonucleic acids (siRNAs) that modulate gene
expression. For example, in January, 2012, Genentech submitted an IND for an
extended delivery device. In addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label,
with success for the treatment of wet AMD, DME, and RVO, a third-party
repackaged version of Genentech’s approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin®
(bevacizumab). The relatively low cost of therapy with Avastin®
in patients with wet AMD presents a significant competitive challenge in this
indication. The National Eye Institute (NEI) and others are conducting
long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing Lucentis® to
Avastin® in the treatment of wet AMD. One-year data from the
Comparison of Age-Related Macular Degeneration Treatments Trial (CATT) were
reported in April 2011 and indicated that Avastin® dosed monthly was
non-inferior to Lucentis® dosed monthly in the primary efficacy
endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. Avastin® is also
being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the United
Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, Mexico, Germany, Israel, and other areas. It may be
difficult for EYLEA® to compete in this or other eye indications for
which it may be approved against Lucentis® and off-label use of
Avastin® because doctors and patients have had significant experience
using these medicines and because of the relatively low cost of
Avastin®. Moreover, the recently reported results of the CATT study,
combined with the relatively low cost of Avastin® in treating
patients with wet AMD, may well exacerbate the competitive challenge which
EYLEA® will face in this or other eye indications for which it may be
approved. In addition, while we believe that ZALTRAP® would not be
well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, if ZALTRAP® is
approved for the treatment of certain cancers, there is a risk that third
parties will attempt to repackage ZALTRAP® for off-label use and sale
for the treatment of wet AMD and other diseases of the eye, which would present
a potential low-cost competitive threat to EYLEA® for wet AMD or
other eye indications.
14



     ARCALYST®. In 2009, Novartis
received regulatory approval in the United States and Europe for canakinumab, a
fully human anti-interleukin-IL1ß antibody, for the treatment of CAPS. In January
2011, Novartis announced that it had submitted an application to the EMA for
approval of canakinumab in the treatment of gout flares. Novartis submitted a
supplemental BLA to the FDA in the first quarter of 2011 for approval of
canakinumab in gout, which was denied in August 2011 based upon safety concerns.
Canakinumab is also in development for atherosclerosis and a number of other
inflammatory diseases. In addition, there are
both small molecules and antibodies in development by other third parties that
are designed to block the synthesis of IL-1 or inhibit the signaling of IL-1.
For example, Xoma Ltd., in collaboration with Servier, is developing an antibody
to IL-1, and both Amgen and MedImmune are developing antibodies to the IL-1
receptor. These drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over
ARCALYST®. The successful development and/or commercialization of
these competing molecules could adversely affect sales of ARCALYST®
for CAPS and delay or impair our ability to commercialize ARCALYST®
for indications other than CAPS.
    
ZALTRAP®. Many companies are developing therapeutic molecules designed
to block the actions of VEGF specifically and angiogenesis in general. A variety
of approaches have been employed, including antibodies to VEGF, antibodies to
the VEGF receptor, small molecule antagonists to the VEGF receptor tyrosine
kinase, and other anti-angiogenesis strategies. Many of these alternative
approaches may offer competitive advantages to aflibercept in efficacy,
side-effect profile, durability of effect, or method of delivery. Additionally,
some of these molecules are already approved for marketing and have a broader
range of indications than our product candidate.
    
In particular, Genentech has an approved VEGF antagonist,
Avastin®, on the market for treating certain cancers and a number of
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing VEGF
antagonists, including Novartis, Amgen, Imclone LLC/Eli Lilly, Pfizer,
AstraZeneca, and GlaxoSmithKline. Many of these molecules are further along in
development than ZALTRAP® and may offer competitive advantages over
our molecule. Pfizer, Onyx (together with its partner Bayer HealthCare), and
GlaxoSmithKline are selling and marketing oral medications that target tumor
cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of
tumors.
    
Monoclonal Antibodies. Our
clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies
which were generated using our VelocImmune® technology.
Our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition
from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various
technologies.
    
Numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products.
Companies such as Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Amgen, Biogen
Idec, Inc., Novartis, Genentech, Bristol-Myers Squib, Abbott, and
GlaxoSmithKline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in
development or on the market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise
human antibody sequences. As noted above, Astellas has licensed our
VelocImmune® technology as part of their internal antibody development
programs.
    
We are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against
targets that are also the targets of our early-stage product candidates. For
example, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Abbott are developing antibody
product candidates against NGF. Genentech is marketing an antibody against IL-6R
(tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile
idiopathic arthritis, and several other companies, including Centocor Ortho
Biotech, Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb, have antibodies against IL-6 in clinical
development for this disease. GlaxoSmithKline, in partnership with OncoMed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., has a Dll4 antibody in clinical development for the
treatment of solid tumors. Aerovance has completed initial clinical trials of
two formulations of a biologic directed against IL-4. Amgen previously had an
antibody against IL-4R in clinical development for the treatment of asthma.
Amgen and Pfizer have development programs for antibodies against PCSK9; Alnylam
has a clinical program underway with an RNAi molecule against PCSK9. Amgen,
Pfizer, and AstraZeneca have development programs underway for antibodies
against ANG2. 
15



     Other
Areas. Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to
discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time
and resources. In these and related areas, intellectual property rights have
been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential
competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in
such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained
personnel, and expertise. A number of corporate and academic competitors are
involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the
focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. These
competitors include Amgen and Roche, as well as many others. Many firms and
entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines,
interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. Some of these competitors are
currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in
these areas. These and other competitors may have established substantial
intellectual property and other competitive advantages. 
    
If any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical
study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product
candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a
competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our
business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future
prospects. 
    
We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and
other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek
patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development
and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration
for use of their technology. These institutions are becoming more active in
seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or
other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. Products
developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. We also
compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies,
and organizations. 
Patents, Trademarks, and Trade
Secrets 
    
Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain
trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary
rights of third parties (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Risks Related to
Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity – We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or
commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are
found to have infringed, third-party patents or other proprietary rights, and
the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have been and will likely
continue to be significant.”). Our policy is
to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements
that we consider important to our business and operations. As of December 31,
2011, we held an ownership interest in a total of approximately 186 issued
patents in the United States and approximately 570 issued patents in foreign
countries with respect to our products and technologies. In addition, we hold an
ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the United States and
foreign countries.
    
Our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent
applications covering our VelociSuite™ technologies, including
our VelocImmune® mouse platform which
produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. Our issued patents covering these
technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2028. However, we continue to
file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms.

    
Our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending
applications relating to our marketed products, ARCALYST® and
EYLEA®, and our product candidates in clinical development. These
patents cover the proteins and DNA encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents,
method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various
methods of using the products. For each of ARCALYST®,
EYLEA® and our late-stage product candidate, ZALTRAP®, these patents
generally expire between 2020 and 2028. However, the projected patent terms may
be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries
where such extensions are available.
    
We also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents
and patent applications. In December 2011, we and Genentech entered into a
Non-Exclusive License and Partial Settlement Agreement relating to ophthalmic
sales of EYLEA® in the United States. Pursuant to this agreement, we
received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to VEGF receptor
proteins, known as the Davis-Smyth patents, and other technology patents. Under
the terms of the agreement, we agreed to make payments to Genentech based on
U.S. sales of EYLEA® commencing upon FDA approval of
EYLEA® in November 2011 through May 7, 2016. We will be required to
make a one-time, non-refundable $60 million payment upon cumulative U.S. sales
of EYLEA® reaching $400 million. In addition, we agreed to pay
royalties of 4.75% on cumulative U.S. sales of EYLEA® between $400
million and $3 billion and 5.5% on any cumulative U.S. sales of EYLEA®
over $3 billion.
    
In July 2008 we entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive
License Agreement with Cellectis S.A. pursuant to which we licensed certain
patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific
replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous
recombination. Pursuant to this agreement, we agreed to pay Cellectis a low,
single-digit royalty based on any future revenue received by us from any future
licenses or sales of our VelociGene® or
VelocImmune® products or services.
No royalties are payable to Cellectis on any revenue from commercial sales of
antibodies from our VelocImmune® technology,
including antibodies developed under our collaboration with Sanofi. We also have
non-exclusive license agreements with Amgen and other organizations for patent
rights related to ARCALYST®. In connection with these licenses, we
pay a combined mid-single digit royalty on net sales of
ARCALYST®.
16



     Patent law
relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is
evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. The
degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the United
States and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon
the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and
governments in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents
or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide
commercial benefit.
    
Others may independently develop similar products or processes to those
developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are
issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents.
We expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process
applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such
applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or
licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others.

    
Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive
and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that
patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court
may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that
we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay
licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see Item 1A.
“Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity –
We may be restricted in our development,
manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to
damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third-party patents or other
proprietary rights, and the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have
been and will likely continue to be significant.”). 
Government Regulation

    
Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign
countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and
marketing of ARCALYST®, EYLEA®, and our product candidates
(see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Commercialization of
EYLEA® for Wet AMD - Our regulatory
approval for sales of EYLEA® is limited to the
treatment of wet AMD and is limited to sales in the United States. If we don't
receive approval for EYLEA® for other indications, or if
approvals are not obtained for sales in other countries, our sales and profits
will be limited and Risks Related to the
Development and Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our
Marketed Products – If we do not obtain
regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our
marketed products, or maintain regulatory approval for
EYLEA® in the United States, we will not be able to market or sell them, which
would materially and negatively impact our business, results of operations, and
prospects.”). All of our product candidates
will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. In
particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and
clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the FDA and
foreign authorities. Many aspects of the structure and substance of the FDA and
foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent
years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions.
The ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be
predicted.
    
The activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the
United States begin with preclinical tests. Preclinical tests include laboratory
evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of
the product candidate and its formulations. The results of these studies must be
submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must be reviewed by the FDA before
proposed clinical testing can begin. Typically, clinical testing involves a
three-phase process. In Phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of
subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. In
Phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific
disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety,
tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product
candidate. In Phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients
afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data
to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as
required by the FDA. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a
biologic product candidate are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA
for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for
commercial sale. In responding to a BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval,
request additional information, or deny the application.
    
Any approval required by the FDA for any of our product candidates may
not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The designation of a clinical
trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a
trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a
clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the
designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. The results of
preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term
safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in
humans.
17



     Approval of a
product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is
generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those
countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and may involve
additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ
from that required for FDA approval.
    
Various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern
or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record
keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product
candidates. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance
with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial
resources. Any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any
delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the
manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or
royalty revenue.
    
In addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be
subject to regulation under the United States Atomic Energy Act, the Clean Air
Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, national restrictions,
and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign
regulations. 
Business Segments 
    
We manage our business as one segment which includes all activities
related to the discovery of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious
medical conditions and the development and commercialization of these
discoveries. This segment also includes revenues and expenses related to (i)
research and development activities conducted under our collaboration agreements
with third parties and our grant from the NIH, (ii) product sales, including
EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD and ARCALYST® for the
treatment of CAPS, (iii) licensing agreements to utilize our VelocImmune®
technology, and (iv) the supply of specified, ordered research materials using
our VelociGene® technology platform.
Employees 
    
As of December 31, 2011, we had 1,704 full-time employees, of whom 330
held a Ph.D. and/or M.D., or PharmD degree. We believe that we have been
successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly
competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense.
None of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our
management considers its relations with our employees to be good. 
Available
Information 
    
We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website
(http://www.regeneron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange
Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

     We
operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. We caution you to read the following
risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial
condition. The risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially
from these forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem
immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results, and financial
condition. Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should also be
considered by our investors. 
Risks Related to Our Financial
Results and Need for Additional Financing 
We have
had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. If we
continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations.

    
From inception on January 8, 1988 through December 31, 2011, we had a
cumulative loss of $1.3 billion. If we continue to incur operating losses and
fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our
operations. In the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products,
including our current sales of EYLEA®, and ARCALYST® or
from other sources, the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be
predicted, our substantial losses will continue as we conduct our research and
development activities, commercialize our approved products, and prepare for
possible commercialization of our other product candidates and new indications
of our marketed products.
18



We may
need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and
which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development
programs or commercialization efforts. 
     We will need to expend substantial resources
for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates and new indications of
our marketed products, continued commercialization of EYLEA® in the United States, to prepare for potential commercialization
of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products and, if one or more of those product candidates
or additional indications receive(s) regulatory approval, to fund the launch of those product(s) or new indications. We believe
our existing capital resources, together with funds generated by anticipated EYLEA® net product sales and funding
we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs; however,
one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our revenues may fall
short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, which could result in our capital being consumed
significantly faster than anticipated. Our expenses may increase for many reasons,
including expenses in connection with the launch and marketing of EYLEA® and the potential commercial launches
of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products, manufacturing scale-up, expenses related to
clinical trials testing ARCALYST®, EYLEA®, REGN475, REGN846,
or REGN1154, and expenses related to the potential requirement for us to fund 20% of Phase 3 clinical trial costs for any of our
antibody product candidates being developed in collaboration with Sanofi.
    
We may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able
to raise additional funds. If we are able to obtain additional financing through
the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, such sales will likely be
dilutive to our shareholders. Debt financing arrangements, if available given
the current uncertainties in the global credit and financial markets, may
require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict
our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be
at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our
shareholders. Should we require and be unable to (i) raise sufficient funds to
complete the development of our product candidates, (ii) to successfully
commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our
marketed products if they obtain regulatory approval, and (iii) to continue our
manufacturing and marketing of EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD,
we may face delay, reduction, or elimination of our research and development or
preclinical or clinical programs and our commercialization activities, which
would significantly limit our potential to generate revenue. We cannot be
certain how profitable, if at all, our current marketing of EYLEA®
for the treatment of wet AMD will be and, even if we obtain regulatory approval
for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, they
may never be successfully launched or become profitable, in which case our
business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be
materially harmed. 
The
value of our investment portfolio is influenced by varying economic and market
conditions and may experience losses.
    
As of December 31, 2011, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable
securities totaled $810.6 million (including $7.7 million of restricted cash and
marketable securities). We have invested our excess cash primarily in direct
obligations of the U.S. government and its agencies, other debt securities
guaranteed by the U.S. government, and money market funds that invest in U.S.
government securities. We consider assets classified as marketable securities to
be “available-for-sale,” as defined by FASB authoritative guidance. Unrestricted
and restricted marketable securities totaled $325.2 million at December 31,
2011, are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are
included in other accumulated comprehensive income (loss) as a separate
component of stockholders’ equity. If the decline in the value of a security in
our investment portfolio is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we write down the
security to its current fair value and recognize a loss which may be fully
charged against income. The current economic environment and the volatility of
securities markets increase the risk that we may not recover the principal we
invested and/or there may be further declines in the market value of securities
in our investment portfolio. As a result, we may incur additional charges
against income in future periods for other-than-temporary impairments or
realized losses upon a security’s sale or maturity, and such amounts may be
material. 
Risks Related to the Development and
Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products

We
believe that a significant portion of the value attributed to our company by
investors is based on the commercial potential of EYLEA®. If approval
for EYLEA® is not obtained in countries outside the United States, or
approval is not obtained for other indications, or if we fail to maintain
regulatory compliance and lose the marketing approval we have in the United
States, or if the product is withdrawn for any reason, our business, prospects,
operating results, and financial condition will be materially
harmed.
19



     Whether
EYLEA® is approved by regulatory authorities outside the United
States or approved by the FDA for new indications, and the timing thereof, will
depend on many factors, including the following:

  whether or not the
  FDA determines that the evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials,
  other clinical trials and nonclinical studies of EYLEA®
  demonstrates that it is safe and effective as a treatment for the indication
  under review; and
  whether or not the
  FDA is satisfied that the manufacturing facilities, processes, and controls
  for EYLEA® are adequate, that the labeling is satisfactory, and
  that plans for post-marketing studies, safety monitoring, and risk evaluation
  and management are sufficient;
     In June 2011,
Bayer HealthCare submitted regulatory applications for marketing approval of
ELYEA® in wet AMD in the European Union and Japan. Analogous
regulatory authorities in these and other countries outside the United States
have similar discretion to the FDA as to approval of EYLEA® in those
countries.
     If
Bayer HealthCare does not obtain approval to market EYLEA® in the European Union, Japan, or other countries, or
if there are material delays in obtaining such approvals, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. 
If we do not obtain regulatory
approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed
products, or maintain regulatory approval for EYLEA® in the
United States, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would
materially and negatively impact our business, results of operations, and
prospects. 
    
We cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. If we do
not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates,
including ARCALYST® for the treatment of diseases other than CAPS,
EYLEA® for the treatment of ophthalmologic diseases other than wet
AMD, and/or ZALTRAP® for one or more oncology indications, the value
of our company, our results of operations, and our prospects will be materially
harmed. Our product candidates, including ZALTRAP® for previously
treated mCRC, EYLEA® for CRVO and DME, and ARCALYST® for
the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy,
may not receive regulatory approval. If we are unable to obtain such
approval(s), or if we are materially delayed in doing so, our business,
prospects, results of operations, and financial condition will be materially
harmed. In addition, if we fail to maintain regulatory approval for EYLEA®
for the treatment of wet AMD, we may lose marketing approval and the
ability to generate EYLEA® product sales revenue, which would
materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, results of operations,
and financial condition. 
Obtaining and maintaining
regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly
uncertain.
    
In the United States, we must obtain and maintain approval from the FDA
for each drug we intend to sell. Obtaining FDA approval is typically a lengthy
and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. Foreign governments
also regulate drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country is
likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly
uncertain.
    
The FDA enforces Good Clinical Practices (GCPs) and other regulations
through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations
(CROs), principal investigators, and trial sites. If we or any of the third
parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully
comply with GCPs, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical
data generated in those studies may be deemed unreliable. This could result in
non-approval of our product candidates by the FDA, or we or the FDA may decide
to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would
delay our development programs, require us to incur additional costs, and could
substantially harm our business. 
    
Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA requires that
the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the
supply chain be in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or
cGMP, requirements and regulations governing the shipment and storage of the
product. Manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory
requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. To be successful, our
products must be manufactured for development, and following approval in
commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at
competitive costs. If we or any of our product collaborators, or third-party
manufacturers, product packagers, labelers, or other parties performing steps in
the supply chain are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA can
impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a
pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a
pre-existing approval. As a result, our business, prospects, operating results,
and financial condition may be materially harmed. 
20










     In addition to
the FDA and other regulatory agency regulations in the United States, we are
subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical
trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and
distribution of drugs in foreign countries. The foreign regulatory approval
process and requirements include all of the risks associated with FDA approval
as well as country specific regulations, and actions by a regulatory agency in a
country or region with respect to a product candidate may have an impact on the
approval process for that product candidate in another country or region.
Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product in the United States, we
must obtain approval of the product by the comparable regulatory authorities in
foreign countries before we can conduct clinical trials of or market that
product or any other product in those countries. 
Clinical trials required for our product candidates and new indications
of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is
highly uncertain. If any of our drug trials are delayed or yield unfavorable
results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of
our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable. 
    
As described above, we must conduct extensive testing of our product
candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain
regulatory approval to market and sell them. We need to conduct both preclinical
animal testing and human clinical trials. Conducting these trials is a lengthy,
time-consuming, and expensive process. These tests and trials may not achieve
favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the
product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious
or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with
exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining
subjects in the clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product
candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial
monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial
plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to GCPs. A clinical trial may
fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to
detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. A clinical
trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in
the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the
investigational drug in the disease setting. 
    
We will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test
favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and time consuming,
or abandon that drug development program. The failure of clinical trials to
demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates for the
desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those
candidates for such indication(s), in which event our business, prospects,
operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. 
Successful development of our current and future product candidates is
uncertain. 
    
Only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately
result in commercially successful drugs. We are testing ZALTRAP® and
EYLEA® in a number of late-stage clinical trials in various
indications and ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout flares in
patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. Clinical trials may not
demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the
requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates in these
indications. In a number of instances, we have terminated the development of
product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness. Moreover, even
if we obtain positive results from preclinical testing or clinical trials, we
may not achieve the same success in future trials. Many companies in the
biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant
setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in
earlier trials.
     In
April 2011 we announced that our Phase 3 VELOUR trial of ZALTRAP® met its primary endpoint of improving overall
survival in the treatment of patients with previously treated mCRC. Based upon these positive results, we and Sanofi submitted
regulatory applications for marketing approval to the FDA and EMA. In January 2012, Roche announced that a Phase 3 trial of Avastin®
(bevacizumab) had met the primary endpoint of overall survival in mCRC in patients who had previously received Avastin®
with standard chemotherapy. The positive results of this trial in a similar patient population could impact the potential
commercial opportunity for ZALTRAP® in mCRC. ZALTRAP® is also in a Phase 3 clinical trial in combination
with a standard chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of first-line androgen independent prostate cancer. We do not have proof
of concept data from early-stage, double-blind, controlled clinical trials that ZALTRAP® will be safe or effective
in this cancer setting. In March 2010, Genentech announced that a Phase 3 trial of
Avastin®, in combination with chemotherapy in men with prostate
cancer, did not meet its primary endpoint. This trial had a very similar design to our ongoing Phase 3 trial of ZALTRAP®
in prostate cancer.
    
We also reported positive Phase 3 trial results with EYLEA® in
CRVO after six months of treatment and, based on these results, have submitted a
supplemental BLA filing to the FDA for marketing approval in the United States
of EYLEA® in CRVO. Under PDUFA, we were granted a target date for an
FDA decision on our EYLEA® in CRVO supplemental BLA of September 23,
2012. However, this expected timing for an FDA decision may not be met, and the
FDA may not grant such approval or such approval may be substantially delayed.
The FDA could also require us to provide additional clinical data in connection with this application. There can be no
assurance that we will receive regulatory approval for EYLEA® in
CRVO.
21



     We also
reported positive results of a Phase 2 trial of EYLEA® for the
treatment of DME and that we have initiated a Phase 3 program in that
indication. A number of other potential new drugs and biologics which showed
promising results in Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials subsequently failed to
establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory
approvals, and this could occur with respect to subsequent clinical trials of
EYLEA® for the treatment of DME.
    
Based on the results of three Phase 3 studies, we have submitted a
supplemental BLA filing to the FDA seeking approval of ARCALYST® for
the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug
therapy and, under PDUFA, we were granted a target date for an FDA decision on
our ARCALYST® supplemental BLA of July 30, 2012. However, this
expected timing for an FDA decision may not be met, and the FDA may not grant
such approval or such approval may be substantially delayed. The FDA could also
require us to provide additional clinical data in connection with this
application. For example, in June 2011, following two positive Phase 3 trials,
the Arthritis Advisory Committee of the FDA, voted to recommend against approval
in a gout indication for Ilaris® (canikinumab), Novartis’ IL-1
inhibitor which works through a similar mechanism as ARCALYST® and,
in August 2011, Novartis received a Complete Response letter from the FDA
requesting additional information, including clinical data to evaluate the
benefit-risk profile of Ilaris® in refractory patients. 
    
Many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of IDMCs.
These independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review
the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy
data, and make recommendations concerning a trial’s continuation, modification,
or termination based on interim, unblinded data. Any of our ongoing clinical
trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by
responsible IDMCs based on their review of such interim trial results. For
example, in September 2009, a Phase 3 trial that was evaluating
ZALTRAP® as a first-line treatment for metastic pancreatic cancer in
combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an IDMC
after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the trial
would not meet its efficacy endpoint. The recommended termination of any of our
ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an IDMC could negatively impact the future
development of our product candidate(s), and our business may be materially
harmed.
    
We are studying our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications
in clinical trials. Many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to
evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and
uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. These product
candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to
support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being,
or are planned to be, studied, which would diminish our clinical “pipeline” and
could negatively affect our future prospects and the value of our company.

Serious
complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in
clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed
products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead
to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new
indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our
business.
    
During the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their
health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor.
Often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being
studied caused these conditions. Various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts
have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product
candidates and new indications for our marketed products. It is possible that as
we test our drug candidates or new indications in larger, longer, and more
extensive clinical programs, or as use of these drugs becomes more widespread if
they receive regulatory approval, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were
observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went
undetected in previous trials, will be reported by patients. Many times, side
effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large
scale, Phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available
to patients after approval. If additional clinical experience indicates that any
of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products has many
side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development
of the product candidate may fail or be delayed, or if the product candidate has
received regulatory approval such approval may be revoked, which would severely
harm our business. 
    
ZALTRAP® is being studied for the potential treatment of
certain types of cancer and EYLEA® is being studied in diseases of
the eye in addition to wet AMD. There are many potential safety concerns
associated with significant blockade of VEGF that may limit our ability to
successfully develop ZALTRAP® and EYLEA® in each of the
indications for which we are studying these product candidates. These serious
and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical
experience of VEGF inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation,
hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke.
In addition, patients given infusions of any protein, including
ZALTRAP® delivered through intravenous administration, may develop
severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. Other VEGF blockers
have reported side effects that became evident only after large scale trials or
after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. There are
risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like
EYLEA®, which can cause injury to the eye and
other complications. For example, in our Phase 3 trials of EYLEA® in
wet AMD, the most frequent ocular adverse events were conjunctival hemorrhage,
macular degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. These and other complications or side effects could harm the
development and/or commercialization of ZALTRAP® for the treatment of
cancer or EYLEA® for the treatment of diseases of the
eye.
22



     As more
patients begin to use ARCALYST® if it receives regulatory approval
for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering
therapy, and to the extent it is tested in new disease settings, new risks and
side effects associated with ARCALYST® may be discovered, and risks
previously viewed as inconsequential could be determined to be significant. Like
cytokine antagonists such as Ilaris® (canakinumab), a registered
trademark of Novartis, Kineret® (anakinra) and Enbrel®
(etanercept), registered trademarks of Amgen, and Remicade®
(infliximab) a registered trademark of Centocor Ortho Biotech, ARCALYST®
affects the immune defense system of the body by blocking some of its
functions. Therefore, ARCALYST® may interfere with the body’s ability
to fight infections. As noted above, in June 2011, following two positive Phase
3 trials, the Arthritis Advisory Committee of the FDA voted to recommend against
approval in a gout indication for Ilaris®, Novartis’ IL-1 inhibitor
which works through a similar mechanism as ARCALYST® and, in August
2011, Novartis received a Complete Response letter from the FDA requesting
additional information, including clinical data to evaluate the benefit-risk
profile of Ilaris® in refractory patients. 
    
Treatment with Kineret®, a medication that works through the
inhibition of IL-1, has been associated with an increased risk of serious
infections, and serious, life threatening infections have been reported in
patients taking ARCALYST®. These or other complications or side
effects could cause regulatory authorities to revoke approvals of
ARCALYST® for the treatment of CAPS or deny the approval of
ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating
uric acid-lowering treatment or other disease settings. Alternatively, we may be
required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of
our product, or limit or abandon our efforts to develop ARCALYST® in
new disease settings. Any such side effects may also result in a reduction, or
even the elimination, of sales of ARCALYST® in the current or future
approved indications. 
    
We are studying REGN475, a fully human monoclonal antibody to NGF, in a
variety of pain indications, including osteoarthritis of the knee. In December
2010, we were informed by the FDA that a case confirmed as avascular necrosis of
a joint was seen in another company’s anti-NGF program. The FDA believes this
case, which follows previously-reported cases of joint replacements in patients
on an anti-NGF drug candidate being developed by another pharmaceutical company,
provides evidence to suggest a class-effect and placed REGN475 on clinical hold.
The FDA Arthritis Advisory Committee is scheduled for March 12, 2012 to discuss
possible safety issues related to anti-NGF compounds. There are currently no
ongoing trials with REGN475 that are either enrolling or treating
patients.
Our
product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an
immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies
against the therapeutic protein. 
    
In addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory
hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant
proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of
antibodies against the therapeutic protein. The antibodies can have no effect or
can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher
doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. In some cases, the antibody can
cross react with the patient’s own proteins, resulting in an “auto-immune” type
disease. Whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from
preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often
delayed, so neutralizing antibodies may be detected at a later date, in some
cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed.
We may
be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is
suitable for clinical or commercial use, which would delay or prevent continued
development of such candidates and/or receipt of regulatory approval or
commercial sale, which could materially harm our business. 
    
If we are unable to continue to develop suitable product formulations or
manufacturing processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product
candidates, including our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply
necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay or prevent the
development of our product candidates. Similarly, if we are unable, directly or
through our collaborators or third parties, to supply sufficient quantities of
our products or develop formulations of our product candidates suitable for
commercial use, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for those
product candidates. 
Risks
Related to Commercialization of EYLEA® for the Treatment of Wet
AMD 
We are
subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect
to EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD. If we fail to maintain
regulatory compliance for EYLEA®, we may lose marketing
approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating
results, and financial condition. 
23



     EYLEA® is currently approved for treatment of wet AMD in the
United States and Bayer HealthCare is seeking approval in other countries. We
are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations with respect to
EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD in the United States, and, if
approved outside the United States, commercialization of EYLEA® will
be subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight in those
countries where approval is obtained as well. If we fail to maintain regulatory
compliance for EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD, we may lose
marketing approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects,
operating results, and financial condition. Failure to comply may also subject
us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved
marketing applications. See also “If we fail
to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture
of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial
costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates and/or in
their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in
sales.” 
Serious
complications or side effects in connection with the use of
EYLEA® could
materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial
condition. 
     There
are risks inherent in intravitreal injections, including with EYLEA®, such
as intraocular inflammation, sterile and culture positive endophthalmitis, corneal decomposition, retinal detachment, retinal
tear, and other side effects, all of which are reported from time to time to the FDA. Serious complications or serious, unexpected
side effects in connection with the use of EYLEA® could materially
harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
Our
regulatory approval for sales of EYLEA® is limited to the
treatment of wet AMD and is limited to sales in the United States. If we don't
receive approval for EYLEA® for other indications, or if
approvals are not obtained for sales in other countries, sales and profits will
be limited.
    
We have received regulatory approval for sale of EYLEA® for
the treatment of wet AMD only in the United States. If we do not receive
approval for EYLEA® for other uses, or if approvals for sales in
other countries are not obtained, sales will be limited and our potential for
profits will be limited. As a result, our business, prospects, results of
operations, and financial condition would be materially impacted. 
Our
sales of EYLEA® for the treatment of
wet AMD are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third
party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our sales
and potential revenue and harm our business, prospects, operating results, and
financial condition.
    
Our current sales in the United States of EYLEA® for the
treatment of wet AMD are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of
reimbursement from third-party payers, including government programs such as
Medicare and Medicaid and private payer healthcare and insurance programs. If
approved for sale in other countries, such sales will be dependent, in part, on
similar programs in these countries. In the United States, there is an increased
focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various
regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased
pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal
healthcare expenditures. Economic pressure on state budgets may also have a
similar impact. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from
U.S. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of
EYLEA®. Since EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD is too
expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if
adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including Medicare
and Medicaid in the United States, is not available, our ability to successfully
commercialize EYLEA® will be materially adversely impacted. Our sales
and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and
financial condition would be materially harmed. See also "The successful commercialization of EYLEA® for the
treatment of wet AMD as well as our late-stage product candidates or new
indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining
coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers,
including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and these payers may not
agree to cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at
levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would
materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial
condition."
    
The status of a J-code for EYLEA® could also affect
reimbursement. J-codes are permanent reimbursement codes maintained by Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) that are a component of the Healthcare
Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS), and are typically used to report
injectable drugs that ordinarily cannot be self-administered. We do not
currently have a J-Code for EYLEA®, although we anticipate assignment
of a J-Code for EYLEA® in January 2013. Without a unique J-code identifier,
EYLEA® must be billed using a non-specific miscellaneous J-code.
Since such codes may be used for a wide variety of products, health plans may
have more difficulty determining the actual product used and billed for the
patient. As a result, these claims must often be submitted with additional
information and manually processed, which can create delays in claims processing
times as well as increasing the likelihood for claim errors.
24



The
commercial success of EYLEA® currently being
marketed for the treatment of wet AMD is subject to strong competition.

     The market for
eye disease products is very competitive. Novartis and Genentech are
collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a VEGF
antibody fragment, Lucentis® for the treatment of wet AMD, CRVO, DME,
and other eye indications. Lucentis® was approved by the FDA in June
2006 for the treatment of wet AMD and in June 2010 for the treatment of macular
edema following retinal vein occlusion (RVO), CRVO, and branch retinal vein
occlusion (BRVO). Lucentis® was also approved by the EMA for wet AMD
in January 2007 and for DME in January 2011. Many other companies are working on
the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet AMD and
DME including those that act by blocking VEGF and VEGF receptors, as well as
small interfering ribonucleic acids (siRNAs) that modulate gene expression. In
addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment
of wet AMD, DME, and RVO, third-party repackaged versions of Genentech’s
approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin®. The relatively low cost of
therapy with Avastin® in patients with wet AMD presents a significant
competitive challenge in this indication. 
    
The National Eye Institute (NEI) and others are conducting long-term,
controlled clinical trials comparing Lucentis® to Avastin®
in the treatment of wet AMD. One-year data from the CATT were reported in April
2011 and indicated that Avastin® dosed monthly was non-inferior to
Lucentis® dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean
visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. Avastin® is also being evaluated in
eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the United Kingdom, Canada,
Brazil, Mexico, Germany, Israel, and other countries. It may be difficult for
EYLEA® in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved
to compete against Lucentis® and off-label use of Avastin®
because doctors and patients have had significant experience using these
medicines. Moreover, the recently reported results of the CATT study, combined
with the relatively low cost of Avastin® in treating patients with
wet AMD, may well exacerbate the competitive challenge which EYLEA®
will face in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved. In
addition, while we believe that ZALTRAP® would not be well tolerated
if administered directly to the eye, if ZALTRAP® is approved for the
treatment of certain cancers, there is a risk that third parties will attempt to
repackage ZALTRAP® for off-label use and sale for the treatment of
wet AMD and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost
competitive threat to EYLEA® for wet AMD or other eye indications.
See also “The commercial success of
EYLEA® currently being marketed for the treatment of wet AMD, and for our other
product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are
approved for marketing, is highly uncertain given their method of
administration, and because our competitors have received approval for and may
be marketing products with a similar mechanism of action or may enter the
marketplace with better or lower cost drugs.”

Risks Related to Intellectual
Property and Market Exclusivity 
If we
cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are
insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive
position will be harmed. 
    
Our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and
other information that we protect as trade secrets. We seek to prevent improper
disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. If our
trade secrets are improperly disclosed, by our own employees, our collaborators
or otherwise, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business.
We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third
parties only to the extent that our rights are covered by valid and enforceable
patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of
biotechnology companies, including our company, involves complex legal and
factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with
certainty. Our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Patent
applications filed outside the United States may be challenged by third parties
who file an opposition. Such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in
the European Union and are costly to defend. We have pending patent applications
in the European Patent Office and it is likely that we will need to defend
patent applications from third-party challengers from time to time in the
future. Patent applications filed in the United States may also be challenged by
third parties who file a request for post-grant review under the America Invents
Act of 2011, beginning on September 16, 2012. We expect that post-grant review
proceedings will become common in the United States and will be costly to
defend. We have pending patent applications in the United States Patent and
Trademark Office and it is likely that we will need to defend patent
applications from third-party challengers from time to time in the future. Our
patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive
advantages against competitors. Furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to
us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely
expensive and time consuming. 
We may
be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization
activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have
infringed, third-party patents or other proprietary rights, and the costs and
expenses of ongoing patent litigation have been and will likely continue to be
significant. 
25



     Our commercial
success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the
patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Other parties may allege
that they have blocking patents to our products in clinical development or even
to products that have received regulatory approval and are being or have been
commercialized, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the
composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. Moreover, other
parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made
using our VelocImmune® technology, either because of the way the
antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary composition
covering an antibody or the antibody’s target. 
    
We are aware of issued patents and pending patent applications owned by
Genentech that claim certain chimeric VEGF receptors. We do not believe that
ZALTRAP® or EYLEA® infringe any valid claim in these
patents or patent applications. We are involved in five patent litigations with
Genentech, two in the United States and three in Europe. In November 2010, we
commenced a lawsuit against Genentech in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York (the Court), seeking a declaratory judgment that
no activities relating to our VEGF Trap infringe any valid claim of certain
Genentech patents referred to as the Davis-Smyth patents (the First Davis-Smyth
Case). Genentech answered the complaint and asserted counterclaims that our
prior or planned activities relating to VEGF Trap have infringed or will
infringe claims of four of the five Davis-Smyth patents and requested a judgment
against us for damages, including for willful infringement, and other relief as
the Court deems appropriate.
     On
December 31, 2011, we entered into a non-exclusive license and partial settlement agreement (the “Agreement”) with Genentech
that covers making, using, and selling EYLEA® in the United States for the prevention and treatment of human eye
diseases and disorders in the United States. Under the Agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to the Davis-Smyth patents,
and certain other technology patents owned or co-owned by Genentech. The Agreement does not cover any non-U.S.
patent rights or non-U.S. patent disputes, and does not cover any use of
aflibercept other than for prevention and treatment of human eye diseases and disorders in the United States. The First Davis-Smyth
Case is continuing with respect to matters not covered by the Agreement. The Agreement provides for us to make payments to Genentech
based on U.S. sales of EYLEA® through May 7, 2016, the date the Davis-Smyth patents expire. We will make a lump-sum
payment of $60 million once cumulative U.S. sales of EYLEA® reach $400 million. We will also pay royalties of
4.75% on cumulative U.S. sales of EYLEA® between $400 million and $3 billion and 5.5% on any cumulative U.S. sales
of EYLEA® over $3 billion. As a result of the Agreement, on January 17, 2012 Genentech filed a second amended
answer and counterclaim in the First Davis-Smyth Case, in which it amended its counterclaims alleging infringement of four of
the five Davis-Smyth patents. On December 23, 2011, Genentech initiated a related case in the Court against Regeneron and Sanofi
alleging infringement of four of the five Davis-Smyth Patents by activities relating to VEGF Trap (but excluding EYLEA®)
(the Second Davis-Smyth Case). As in the First Davis-Smyth Case, in the new complaint Genentech requests a judgment against us
for damages, including for willful infringement, and other relief as the Court deems appropriate.
    
We believe Genentech's claims in the First Davis Smyth Case and the
Second Davis Smyth Case are without merit and intend to continue to defend
against all of Genentech’s remaining claims vigorously. However, it is possible
that there could be an adverse determination or judgment in either or both cases
that would materially harm our business by requiring us to seek a license for
matters not covered by the Agreement, which may not be available at all or on
reasonable terms, or precluding the manufacture, further development, or sale of
EYLEA® outside the United States or ZALTRAP®, or resulting
in a damage award. In addition, irrespective of the outcome of the Davis-Smyth
cases, we have incurred and will likely continue to incur significant costs and
expenses associated with them, which have negatively affected, and will likely
continue to negatively affect, our results of operations. An adverse
determination in any of the proceedings described herein may have a material
adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial
condition. 
    
We have initiated patent-related actions against Genentech in Germany,
the United Kingdom, and Italy, and may initiate other actions in other countries
outside the United States, which could have similar or other adverse outcomes
that would materially harm our business and which, irrespective of the outcomes,
may also entail significant costs and expenses. 
    
We are aware of patents and pending applications owned by Roche that
claim antibodies to IL-6R and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis with such
antibodies. We are developing sarilumab, an antibody to IL-6R, for the treatment
of rheumatoid arthritis. Although we do not believe that sarilumab infringes any
valid claim in these patents or patent applications, Roche could initiate a
lawsuit for patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover
sarilumab.
    
We are aware of a U.S. patent jointly owned by Genentech and City of Hope
relating to the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells. We currently
produce our antibody product candidates using recombinant antibodies from host
cells and may choose to produce additional antibody product candidates in this
manner. Neither ARCALYST®, ZALTRAP®, nor EYLEA®
are recombinant antibodies. If any of our antibody product candidates are
produced in a manner subject to valid claims in the Genentech patent, then we
may need to obtain a license from Genentech, should one be available. Genentech
has licensed this patent to several different companies under confidential
license agreements. If we desire a license for any of our antibody product
candidates and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms
or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to
use Genentech’s techniques to make recombinant antibodies in or to import them
into the United States. 
26



     Further, we
are aware of a number of other third-party patent applications that, if granted
with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities.
It could be determined that our products and/or actions in manufacturing or
selling our product candidates infringe such patents. 
    
Patent holders in addition to Genentech could assert claims against us
for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing
our drug candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued
patents of third parties. In the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any
of our drug candidates, including EYLEA® or our other late-stage
product candidates, infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary
rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development,
manufacturing, and commercialization of those drugs and may be required to pay
costly damages. Such a result may materially harm our business, prospects,
operating results, and financial condition. In any event, legal disputes are
likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. 
    
We seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such
licenses are needed or advisable. If any licenses are required, we may not be
able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The
failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or
commercializing any one or more of our product candidates, which could severely
harm our business. 
Loss or
limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar
competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our
products.
    
In the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an
innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in
which it has market exclusivity. In the United States and some other countries,
when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved
and marketed, there usually are very substantial and rapid declines in the
product’s sales.
    
If our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are
approved for marketing in the U.S or elsewhere, market exclusivity for those
products will generally be based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory
forms of exclusivity. As described above under "If we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our
patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and
competitive position will be harmed", the
scope and enforceability of our patent rights may vary from country to country.
The failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or
limitations on the use, or the loss, of such rights could be material to us.
Absent patent protection or regulatory exclusivity for our products, it is
possible, both in the United States and elsewhere, that generic and/or
biosimilar versions of those products may be approved and marketed which would
likely result in substantial and rapid reductions in revenues from sales of
those products. 
    
Under the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA,
enacted in 2010, there is now a new, abbreviated path in the United States for
regulatory approval of biosimilar versions of biological products. The PPACA
provides a regulatory mechanism that allows for FDA approval of biologic drugs
that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of
less extensive data than is required by a full BLA. Under this new regulation,
an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after
approval of the innovator product. However, qualified innovative biological
products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the FDA
may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative
biological product was first approved by the FDA. However, the term of
regulatory exclusivity may not remain at 12 years in the United States and could
be shortened. 
    
The increased likelihood of biosimilar competition has increased the risk
of loss of innovators’ market exclusivity. Due to this risk, and uncertainties
regarding patent protection, if our late-stage product candidates or other
clinical candidates are approved for marketing, it is not possible to predict
the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based
solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of
regulatory exclusivity. It is also not possible to predict changes in United
States regulatory law that might reduce biological product regulatory
exclusivity. The loss of market exclusivity for a product would likely
materially and negatively affect revenues from product sales of that product and
thus our financial results and condition. 
Risks Related to Manufacturing and
Supply 
We rely
on limited internal and contracted manufacturing and supply chain capacity,
which could result in our being unable to continue to successfully commercialize
EYLEA® and to
commercialize our other product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they receive
regulatory approval and are unable to continue to develop our clinical
candidates. 
27



     Our
manufacturing facility would be inadequate to produce the active pharmaceutical
ingredients of (a) EYLEA®, ZALTRAP®, and
ARCALYST® for the treatment of gout flares in sufficient
commercial quantities if these late-stage product candidates were all to receive
regulatory approval, and (b) our earlier stage product candidates in sufficient
clinical quantities if our clinical pipeline advances as planned. In addition to
expanding our internal capacity, we intend to rely on our corporate
collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce commercial
quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products to the
extent such quantities are not manufactured at our own facility. We rely
entirely on third-parties and our collaborators for filling and finishing
services. Generally, in order for other parties to perform any step in the
manufacturing and supply chain, we must transfer technology to the other party
which can be time consuming and may not be successfully accomplished without
considerable cost and expense, or at all. We will have to depend on these other
parties to perform effectively on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory
requirements. If for any reason they are unable to do so, and as a result we are
unable to directly or through such third parties manufacture and supply
sufficient commercial quantities of our products on acceptable terms, or if we
should encounter delays or other difficulties in our relationships with our
corporate collaborators, third-party manufacturers, or other parties involved in
our supply chain which adversely affect the timely manufacture and supply of our
products, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition
may be materially harmed. 
Expanding our manufacturing capacity will be costly and we may be
unsuccessful in doing so in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent the
launch and successful commercialization of our late-stage product candidates or
other indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing
and could jeopardize our current and future clinical development programs.

    
Expanding our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of
the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our late-stage product candidates if
they are approved for marketing, and to supply clinical drug material to support
the continued growth of our clinical programs, will require substantial
additional expenditures, and we will need to hire and train significant numbers
of employees and managerial personnel to staff our manufacturing and supply
chain operations. Start-up costs can be large and scale-up entails significant
risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. In addition, we
may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary
production equipment and technology to manufacture sufficient quantities of our
product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable
regulatory requirements. The FDA and analogous foreign regulatory authorities
must determine that our existing and any expanded manufacturing facilities
comply, or continue to comply, with cGMP requirements for both clinical and
commercial production and license them, or continue to license them,
accordingly, and such facilities must also comply with applicable environmental,
safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. We may not successfully
expand or establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our
products economically or in compliance with cGMPs and other regulatory
requirements, and we and our collaborators may not be able to build or procure
additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand for our
late-stage product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, and to
continue to meet the requirements of our clinical programs. This would interfere
with our efforts to successfully commercialize EYLEA®,
ZALTRAP®, and ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout flares
in patients initiating uric acid-lowering treatment if they receive regulatory
approval, and could also delay or require us to discontinue one or more of our
clinical development programs. As a result, our business, prospects, operating
results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. 
Our
ability to manufacture our products may be impaired if any of our manufacturing
activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and
supply chain, are found to infringe third-party patents. 
    
Our ability to continue to manufacture ARCALYST®,
EYLEA®, and ZALTRAP® in our Rensselaer, New York
facilities, or to utilize third parties to produce our products or perform
fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends
on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents or other
intellectual property rights of third parties. Other parties may allege that our
manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our
manufacture and supply chain, infringe patents or other intellectual property
rights. A judicial decision in favor of one or more parties making such
allegations could preclude the manufacture of our products where those
intellectual property rights apply which could materially harm our business,
results of operations, and prospects.
If
sales of EYLEA® for the treatment of
wet AMD do not meet the levels currently expected, or if the launch of our
late-stage product candidates or new indications of our marketed products, or
any of our clinical programs, are delayed or discontinued, we may face costs
related to unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities and at the facilities
of third parties. 
28



    
We have large-scale manufacturing operations in Rensselaer, New York. We
use our facilities to produce bulk product of ARCALYST® for the
treatment of CAPS, bulk product of EYLEA® for the treatment of wet
AMD and clinical and preclinical candidates for
ourselves and our collaborations, and plan to use such facilities to produce
bulk product for commercial supply of our late-stage product candidates or new
indications of our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. If our
clinical candidates are discontinued or their clinical development is delayed,
if the launch of any of our late-stage product candidates or new indications or
our marketed products is delayed or does not occur, or if such products are
launched and subsequently recalled or marketing approval is rescinded, we may
have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies,
as well as similar costs of third-party contract manufacturers performing
services for us. 
Third-party service or supply failures, or other failures, business
interruptions, or natural disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in
Rensselaer, New York or the facilities of any other party participating in the
supply chain, would adversely affect our ability to supply our products.

    
We manufacture all of our bulk drug materials at our manufacturing
facilities in Rensselaer, New York. We would be unable to manufacture these
materials if our Rensselaer facilities were to cease production due to
regulatory requirements or action, business interruptions, labor shortages or
disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, or other problems at the
facilities. 
    
Also, certain raw materials necessary for the manufacture and formulation
of ARCALYST® and EYLEA® and of our product candidates,
including ZALTRAP®, are provided by single-source unaffiliated
third-party suppliers. In addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform
filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related
to the manufacture of ARCALYST® and our product candidates. We would
be unable to obtain these raw materials or services for an indeterminate period
of time if any of these third parties were to cease or interrupt production or
otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any
reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, adverse financial
developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply
with cGMPs, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. This, in
turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply
ARCALYST® for the treatment of CAPS and EYLEA® for the
treatment of wet AMD and to manufacture and supply commercial quantities of
EYLEA® for other ophthalmologic diseases, ZALTRAP®, and
ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout flares if they receive
regulatory approval, which could materially and adversely affect our business
and future prospects. 
    
Certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the
formulation of our product candidates may be derived from biological sources,
including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. There are
certain European regulatory restrictions on using these biological source
materials. If we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with
European regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be
delayed or interrupted. 
If we
fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the
manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial
remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates
or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch
if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales.
    
We and our third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with
cGMP, and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable agencies in other
jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Changes of suppliers or modifications
of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the FDA
or such comparable foreign agencies and acceptance of the change by the FDA or
such comparable foreign agencies prior to release of product(s). Because we
produce multiple product candidates at our facility in Rensselaer, New York,
including ARCALYST®, EYLEA®, and ZALTRAP®,
there are increased risks associated with cGMP compliance. Our inability, or the
inability of our third-party fill/finish or other service providers, to
demonstrate ongoing cGMP compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and
expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt
clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of any marketed products,
and could also delay or prevent our obtaining regulatory approval for our
late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products. Any
delay, interruption, or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish,
packaging, or storage of any drug product or product candidate as a result of a
failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to
pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cGMP compliance could
significantly impair our ability to develop, obtain approval for, and
successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially harm our
business and prospects. Any finding of non-compliance could also increase our
costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, result in
delay in our obtaining, or our not obtaining, regulatory approval of product
candidates or new indications for our marketed products, and cause us to lose
revenue from any marketed products, which could be seriously detrimental to our
business, prospects, and financial condition.

29



Risks Related to Commercialization
of Products 
We may
be unsuccessful in continuing our commercialization of EYLEA® for the
treatment of wet AMD or commercializing our late stage product candidates or new
indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially delay
or prevent our achieving profitability. 
     Even if
clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product
candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are
obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates or new
indications for our marketed products will depend upon, among other things,
their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and
on our and our collaborators' ability to successfully manufacture and
commercialize those products or new indications. Even if we obtain regulatory
approval for our product candidates or new indications, if they are not
successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant
investment we have made in developing such products and our business, prospects,
operating results, and financial condition would be severely harmed. 
    
In particular, we are in the early stages of commercialization and cannot
be sure that EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD will be commercially
successful in the pharmaceutical market. In addition to the challenges we face
related to a company launching its first major commercial drug, as described in
detail in the risk factor immediately below, we and Bayer HealthCare will face
intense competition from Lucentis® and from off-label use of
Avastin®, both of which have been on the market for a number of
years. We expect that the initial commercial success of EYLEA® for
the treatment of wet AMD will depend on many factors, including the following:


  the effectiveness of our and Bayer HealthCare's
  commercial strategies for the launch and marketing of EYLEA® in and
  outside the United States, respectively, including pricing strategy and the
  effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate
  third-party reimbursements;
  maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial
  manufacturing arrangements for EYLEA® with third parties who
  perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of EYLEA® to
  ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities,
  including the FDA, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical
  manufacturing facilities;
  our ability to meet the demand for commercial
  supplies of EYLEA®;
  our ability to effectively communicate to the
  marketplace the benefits of the dosing regimen of EYLEA® of every 2
  months after three initial monthly doses as compared to the monthly dosing
  regimen of Lucentis®, and the willingness of retinal specialists
  and patients to switch from Lucentis® or off-label use of
  Avastin® to EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD;
  the ability of patients, retinal specialists, and
  other providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement
  from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States
  and other government and private payors in the United States and foreign
  jurisdictions; and
  the effect of new health care legislation
  currently being implemented in the United States.
    
While we believe that EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD has
a commercially competitive profile, we cannot predict whether ophthalmologists,
particularly retinal specialists, and patients, will accept or utilize
EYLEA®. Our and Bayer HealthCare's efforts to educate the relevant
medical community and third-party payors regarding the benefits of
EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD will require significant
resources and may not be successful in achieving our objectives. If
EYLEA® is approved for marketing but does not achieve significant
market acceptance for the treatment of wet AMD, our ability to achieve
profitability would be materially impaired or delayed.
If we are unable to establish, and
effectively deploy and manage, sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities in
the applicable markets or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not generate our expected sales of EYLEA®
for treatment of wet AMD or successfully launch and commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications
for our marketed products if they receive regulatory approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating
results, and financial condition. 
    
We currently sell EYLEA® in the United States to three
distributors and several specialty pharmacies. We currently sell
ARCALYST® for the treatment of CAPS in the United States to two
specialty pharmacies. Under these distribution models, we enter into written
contracts with our distributors and specialty pharmacies (collectively, our
“customers”), and our customers generally take physical delivery of product. For
EYLEA®, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the
product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for ARCALYST®, the
specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients.
30









     We have
established our own sales and marketing organization for EYLEA® in
the United States for the treatment of wet AMD, and in anticipation of filing
for and receiving regulatory approval to market and sell EYLEA® in
the United States for the treatment of CRVO. However, we may be unsuccessful in
achieving a successful commercialization of EYLEA® in the United
States, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results,
and financial condition.
    
We will have to rely on a third party or devote significant resources to
develop our own sales and marketing capabilities, and our distribution network,
for ARCALYST® for patients with gout initiating uric acid-lowering
drug therapy if it receives regulatory approval. If we are unable to obtain
these capabilities, either by developing our own organizations or entering into
agreements with others to provide these functions, even if ARCALYST®
for the prevention of gout flares receives marketing approval, we will not be
able to successfully launch and commercialize this product, which would also
materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial
condition.
    
We have limited experience in sales, marketing, or distribution of
products in substantial commercial quantities or in establishing and managing
the required infrastructure to do so, including large-scale information
technology systems and a large-scale distribution network, and we may be unable
to establish such infrastructure on a timely basis. To the extent we determine
to utilize third parties to provide sales, marketing, or distribution
capabilities for ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout flares or any
of our other product candidates or new indications for marketed products if they
receive regulatory approval, we may encounter difficulties in retaining such
parties on acceptable terms. Even if we hire qualified sales and marketing
personnel, and establish the required infrastructure we need to support our
objectives, or enter into marketing and distribution agreements with third
parties on acceptable terms, we may not do so in an efficient manner or on a
timely basis. We may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of
the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities
necessary to successfully market and sell in the United States
EYLEA®, ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout flares, or
any of our other product candidates or new indications if they receive
regulatory approval in the United States and as to which we retain sales and
marketing responsibility in that market. Establishing and maintaining sales,
marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. Our
expenses associated with building up and maintaining a sales force and
distribution capabilities may be disproportional, particularly in the near term,
compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales in the United
States of EYLEA® or ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout
flares. Ultimately neither we nor our collaborators may be successful in
commercializing EYLEA®, ZALTRAP®, ARCALYST® for
the prevention of gout flares, or any of our other product
candidates.
    
Under the terms of our collaboration agreement, Sanofi has primary
responsibility for sales, marketing, and distribution of ZALTRAP® in
cancer indications, should it be approved in the future by regulatory
authorities for marketing.
     We
currently have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities outside the United States. Under the terms of our license and collaboration agreement with Bayer HealthCare, we will rely on Bayer HealthCare for
sales, marketing, and distribution of EYLEA® in countries outside the United States should it be approved for
marketing in such countries.
The
commercial success of EYLEA® currently being
marketed for the treatment of wet AMD, and for our other product candidates or
new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, is
highly uncertain given their method of administration, and because our
competitors have received approval for and may be marketing products with a
similar mechanism of action or may enter the marketplace with better or lower
cost drugs. 
    
Our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by
intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received
by patients than tablet or capsule delivery and this could adversely affect the
commercial success of those products if they receive marketing
approval.
    
There is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical
industries from biotechnology, pharmaceutical,  and chemical companies. Many of
our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical
product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing,
and human resources than we do. Our smaller competitors may also enhance their
competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form
collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even
if we achieve commercialization of our product candidates, our competitors have
achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our
products are approved for marketing and sale.
    
As previously noted, Genentech has an approved VEGF antagonist,
Avastin®, on the market for treating certain cancers and many
different pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop
competing VEGF antagonists, including Novartis, Amgen, Imclone LLC/Eli Lilly, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, and GlaxoSmithKline. Some of these molecules are
further along in development than ZALTRAP® and may offer competitive
advantages over our molecule. Each of Pfizer, Onyx
(together with its partner Bayer HealthCare), and GlaxoSmithKline are marketing
and selling oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature
formation that fuels the growth of tumors. The marketing approvals for
Genentech’s VEGF antagonist, Avastin®, and their extensive, ongoing
clinical development plan for Avastin® in other cancer indications,
make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in clinical trials to support
ZALTRAP® for those indications and to obtain regulatory approval of
ZALTRAP® in those indications. This may delay or impair our ability
to successfully develop and commercialize ZALTRAP® for various cancer
indications. In addition, even if ZALTRAP® is approved for sale for
the treatment of certain cancers, it will be difficult for our drug to compete
against Avastin® and the FDA approved kinase inhibitors, because
doctors and patients will have significant experience using these medicines. In
addition, an oral medication may be considerably less expensive for patients
than a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that
market such products.
31



     The market for
eye disease products is also very competitive. Novartis and Genentech are
collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a VEGF
antibody fragment, Lucentis® for the treatment of wet AMD, CRVO, DME,
and other eye indications. Lucentis® was approved by the FDA in June
2006 for the treatment of wet AMD and in June 2010 for the treatment of macular
edema following retinal vein occlusion (RVO), CRVO, and branch retinal vein
occlusion (BRVO). Lucentis® was also approved by the EMA for wet AMD
in January 2007 and for DME in January 2011. Many other companies are working on
the development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet AMD and
DME including those that act by blocking VEGF and VEGF receptors, as well as
small interfering ribonucleic acids (siRNAs) that modulate gene expression. In
addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment
of wet AMD, DME, and RVO, third-party repackaged versions of Genentech’s
approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin®.
    
The National Eye Institute (NEI) and others are conducting long-term,
controlled clinical trials comparing Lucentis® to Avastin®
in the treatment of wet AMD. One-year data from the Comparison of Age-Related
Macular Degeneration Treatments Trial (CATT) were reported in April 2011 and
indicated that Avastin® dosed monthly was non-inferior to
Lucentis® dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean
visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. It may be difficult for EYLEA® in
this or other eye indications for which it may be approved to compete against
Lucentis® and off-label use of Avastin® because doctors
and patients have had significant experience using these medicines. Moreover,
the recently reported results of the CATT study, combined with the relatively
low cost of Avastin® in treating patients with wet AMD, may well
exacerbate the competitive challenge which EYLEA® will face in this
or other eye indications for which it may be approved. In addition, while we
believe that ZALTRAP® would not be well tolerated if administered
directly to the eye, if ZALTRAP® is approved for the treatment of
certain cancers, there is a risk that third parties will attempt to repackage
ZALTRAP® for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet AMD and
other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive
threat to EYLEA® for wet AMD or other eye indications. 
    
The availability of highly effective FDA approved Tumor Necrosis
Factors-antagonists (TNF-antagonists) such as Enbrel®,
Remicade®, Humira® (adalimumab), a registered trademark of
Abbott Laboratories, Simponi® (golimumab), a registered trademark of
Johnson & Johnson, the IL-1 receptor antagonist Kineret®,
Ilaris® (canakinumab), and other marketed therapies makes it more
difficult to successfully develop and commercialize ARCALYST® in
indications other than CAPS, and this is one of the reasons we discontinued the
development of ARCALYST® in adult rheumatoid arthritis. In addition,
even if ARCALYST® is ever approved for sale in indications where
TNF-antagonists are approved, it will be difficult for our drug to compete
against these FDA approved TNF-antagonists because doctors and patients have had
significant experience using these effective medicines. Moreover, in such
indications these approved therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over
ARCALYST®, such as requiring fewer injections.
    
There are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other
companies that are designed to block the synthesis of IL-1 or inhibit the
signaling of IL-1. For example, Eli Lilly, Xoma (in collaboration with
Servier), and Novartis are each developing antibodies to IL-1 and both Amgen and
MedImmune are developing antibodies to the IL-1 receptor. In 2009, Novartis
received regulatory approval in the United States and Europe for
Ilaris®, a fully human anti-interleukin-IL1ß antibody, for the
treatment of CAPS. Ilaris® is also in development for atherosclerosis
and a number of other inflammatory diseases. Novartis’ IL-1 antibody and these
other drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over
ARCALYST®. For example, Ilaris® is dosed once every eight
weeks compared to the once-weekly dosing regimen for ARCALYST®. The
successful development and/or commercialization of these competing molecules
could adversely affect sales of ARCALYST® for the treatment of CAPS
and delay or impair our ability to commercialize ARCALYST® for
indications other than CAPS.
    
We are developing ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout flares
in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy and have submitted a
supplemental BLA filing for U.S. regulatory approval in this indication. In
January 2011, Novartis announced that the results of two Phase 3 studies with
Ilaris® focused on reducing pain and preventing recurrent attacks or
“flares” in patients with hard-to-treat gout were positive. Novartis has also
reported that regulatory filings for the use of Ilaris® in gouty
arthritis have been completed in the European Union in 2010 and in the United
States in the first quarter of 2011, based on the results of these two Phase 3
studies. Ilaris® is dosed less frequently for the treatment of CAPS,
and if it is approved for the treatment of gout, it may be perceived by some
physicians as offering competitive advantages over ARCALYST®, which
would make it difficult for us to successfully commercialize
ARCALYST® in that disease.
32



     Currently,
inexpensive, oral therapies such as analgesics and other NSAIDS, are used as the
standard of care to treat the symptoms of gout diseases. These established,
inexpensive, orally delivered drugs may make it difficult for us to successfully
commercialize ARCALYST® in these diseases. 
    
Our earlier-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human
monoclonal antibodies, which were generated using our VelocImmune® technology. Our antibody
generation technologies and earlier-stage clinical candidates face competition
from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various
technologies.
    
Numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products.
Companies such as Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Amgen, Biogen
Idec, Novartis, Genentech/Roche, Bristol-Myers Squib, Abbott, and
GlaxoSmithKline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in
development or on the market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise
human antibody sequences.
    
We are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against
targets that are also the targets of our early-stage product candidates. For
example, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Abbott are developing antibody
product candidates against NGF. Genentech/Roche is marketing an antibody against
IL-6R (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and several other
companies, including Centocor/Johnson & Johnson, and Bristol-Myers Squibb,
have antibodies against IL-6 in clinical development for this disease.
GlaxoSmithKline, in partnership with OncoMed Pharmaceuticals, has a Dll4
antibody in clinical development for the treatment of solid tumors. Aerovance
has two formulations of a biologic directed against IL-4 in clinical
development. Amgen previously had an antibody against IL-4R in clinical
development for the treatment of asthma. We believe that several companies,
including Amgen and Pfizer, have development programs for antibodies against
PCSK9. Amgen, Pfizer, and AstraZeneca have development programs underway for
antibodies against ANG2. If any of these or other competitors announces a
successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one
of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory
agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect
on our business or future prospects. 
The successful commercialization
of EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications
for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party
payers, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and these payers may not agree to cover or adequately reimburse
for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially
harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition.
    
Our product candidates, if commercialized, may be significantly more
expensive than traditional drug treatments. For example, we are developing
ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating
uric acid-lowering drug therapy. Patients suffering from this gout indication
are currently treated with inexpensive therapies, including NSAIDS. These
existing treatment options are likely to be considerably less expensive and may
be preferable to a biologic medication for some patients. Our future revenues
and profitability will be adversely affected in a material manner if United
States and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and payers, and
other third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, do not agree to
defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. If these entities
do not provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or
provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be
too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe
them. Many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are
not preferred by such payers more expensive for patients, and require prior
authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a
particular drug. In particular, payers may impose these obstacles to coverage on
higher-priced drugs, as our product candidates are likely to be.
    
Government and other third-party payers are challenging the prices
charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to
limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. In March
2010, the PPACA and a related reconciliation bill were enacted in the United
States. This legislation imposes cost containment measures that are likely to
adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our future products. The full
effects of this legislation are unknown at this time and will not be known until
regulations and guidance are issued by CMS and other federal and state agencies.
Further, in September 2011 the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the
Department of Health and Human Services issued a report entitled “Review of
Medicare Part B Avastin and Lucentis Treatments for Age-Related Macular
Degeneration” in which the OIG details possible savings to the Medicare program
by using off-label Avastin® rather than Lucentis® for the
treatment of wet AMD. Some states are also considering legislation that would
control the prices of drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly
requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior
authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental
rebates are not being paid. It is likely that federal and state legislatures and
health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform in the
future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for
our products. 
33



     Since
EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD and other eye diseases,
ZALTRAP® for oncology indications, and ARCALYST® for the
prevention of gout flares will likely be too expensive for most patients to
afford without health insurance coverage, if these products are unable to obtain
adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including Medicare
and Medicaid in the United States, our ability to successfully commercialize
these products would be materially adversely impacted. The status of a J-code
for our marketed products could also affect reimbursement. J-codes are permanent
reimbursement codes maintained by CMS that are a component of HCPCS, and are
typically used to report injectable drugs that ordinarily cannot be
self-administered. Although we have a J-Code for ARCALYST®, we do not
currently have a J-Code for EYLEA®, although we anticipate assignment
of a J-Code for EYLEA® in January 2013. Without a unique J-code identifier,
EYLEA® must be billed using a non-specific miscellaneous J-code.
Since such codes may be used for a wide variety of products, health plans may
have more difficulty determining the actual product used and billed for the
patient. As a result, these claims must often be submitted with additional
information and manually processed, which can create delays in claims processing
times as well as increasing the likelihood for claim errors. Third-party payers,
including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, may not cover and/or
reimburse for these products at levels required for us to successfully
commercialize these products. Any limitation imposed by third-party payers on
the use of our products if they are approved for marketing, any action or
decision by CMS or analogous foreign agencies or authorities which for any
reason denies coverage or reimbursement for our products or provides coverage or
reimbursement at levels that harm our products’ competitiveness or leads to
lower prices for those products, will have a material negative effect on our
ability to achieve profitability. In certain foreign countries, pricing,
coverage, and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to
governmental control, and we and our collaborators may be unable to obtain
coverage, pricing, and/or reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us or
necessary for us or our collaborators to successfully commercialize our products
in those countries. In some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug
must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing
drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European
Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal
products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement
and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state
may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a
system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company
placing the medicinal product on the market. Our results of operations may
suffer if we or our collaborators are unable to market our products in foreign
countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries
is limited or delayed. 
Regulatory and Litigation Risks

   If the testing or
use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging
product liability claims.
    
The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in
people expose us to product liability risk. Any informed consent or waivers
obtained from people who enroll in our clinical trials may not protect us from
liability or the cost of litigation. We may also be subject to claims by
patients who use our approved products, ARCALYST® for the treatment
of CAPS, or EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD, or EYLEA®
for other indications, ZALTRAP®, or ARCALYST® for the
prevention of gout flares if those product candidates receive regulatory
approval and become commercially available, that they have been injured by a
side effect associated with the drug. We may face product liability claims and
be found responsible even if injury arises from the acts or omissions of our
third-party fill/finish or other providers. Our product liability insurance may
not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability
arising from any such litigation. Moreover, in the future we may not have access
to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms.

If we market and sell approved products, in a way that
violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or
criminal penalties. 
    
In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to
health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the
anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, and other state and
federal laws and regulations. Federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit,
among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone
to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under
federal or state healthcare programs. If we provide payments or other
remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our
products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws.

    
Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting,
or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government,
or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false
claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a
variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly
providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers
would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services
inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set
reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not
approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to
Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses, and submitting inflated best price
information to the Medicaid Rebate program.
34



     The majority
of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback
law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under
Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of
the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil
monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement
under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. 
    
Even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government
investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of
significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our
business and financial results and condition. Because of the breadth of these
laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our
business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws.

    
In recent years, several states and localities, including California, the
District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, Vermont, and
West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to
establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the
state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical
trials, and other activities. Similar requirements are being considered in other
states. In addition, as part of the PPACA, pharmaceutical companies will be
required to file reports with the federal government regarding payments made to
healthcare professionals. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and
the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear.
Nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we
could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive
adverse publicity, which would harm our business and financial results and
condition. 
Risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents or
contractors or collaborators could adversely affect our business or
reputation. 
    
We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures
will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents,
contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the
jurisdictions in which we operate, including without limitation, healthcare,
employment, foreign corrupt practices, environmental, competition, and privacy
laws. Such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal
investigations, monetary and injunctive penalties and could adversely impact our
ability to conduct business, results of operations, and reputation. 
Our operations may involve
hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws
and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we
may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of
hazardous materials. 
    
As a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing operations,
we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and
regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. Our
research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use
of chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. The
cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is
substantial. If an accident involving these materials or an environmental
discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or
face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage.

Our business is subject to
increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting
requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business and
financial results and condition.
    
We are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and
state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our Common
Stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (PCAOB), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and The
NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, have issued a significant number of new and
increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last
several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in
response to laws enacted by Congress, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
and, most recently, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the
Dodd-Frank Act. There are significant corporate governance and executive
compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that expressly authorized
or required the SEC to adopt additional rules in these areas, such as
shareholder approval of executive compensation (so-called “say on pay”) and
proxy access. On January 25, 2011, the SEC adopted final rules concerning “say
on pay”. Our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have
resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses
and a diversion of management’s time from other business
activities. 
35



   Changes in laws and
regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our
business. 
     All aspects of
our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing,
pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to
extensive legislation and regulation. Changes in applicable federal and state
laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our
business. These include:

  changes in the FDA
  and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or
  prevent the approval of any of our current or future product
  candidates;
  new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions
  related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and
  services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for
  us to market and sell products once they are approved by the FDA or foreign
  regulatory agencies; 
  changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may
  require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new
  products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing
  business; and 
  changes in FDA and foreign cGMPs that may make it
  more difficult and costly for us to maintain regulatory compliance and/or
  manufacture our marketed product and product candidates in accordance with
  cGMPs. 
    
As described above, the PPACA and potential regulations thereunder easing
the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace, other new
legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of
lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on
comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and
possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business.

Risks Related to Our Reliance on
Third Parties 
If our
antibody collaboration with Sanofi is terminated, our business operations and
financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and
commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at
all, would be materially harmed. 
     We
rely heavily on funding from Sanofi to support our target discovery and antibody research and development programs. Sanofi has
committed to pay up to $160 million per year, or a total of $1.28 billion, between 2010 and 2017 to fund our efforts to identify
and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets. Sanofi
has a one-time option to adjust the maximum reimbursement amount down to $120 million per year commencing in 2014 if over the
prior two years certain specified criteria are not satisfied. If this downward adjustment occurs, it will reduce our resources
available for antibody discovery activities and negatively affect our clinical pipeline. Sanofi also initially funds almost all
of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the clinical development of antibodies that Sanofi elects
to co-develop with us. We rely on Sanofi to fund these activities. In addition, with respect to those antibodies that Sanofi elects
to co-develop with us, such as sarilumab, REGN727, REGN668, REGN421, REGN910, REGN728,
and REGN1033, we rely on Sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining regulatory approval,
particularly outside the United States. We also rely on Sanofi to lead the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody
products that are co-developed by Sanofi and us if they receive regulatory approval. If Sanofi does not elect to co-develop the
antibodies that we discover or opts-out of their development, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical
trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support those antibody products. For example,
during 2011 and 2012 to date, Sanofi elected not to continue co-development of REGN846
and REGN475, and decided not to opt-in to the REGN1154 program. If Sanofi terminates
the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results,
and financial condition would be materially harmed. We would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we
have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might
not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. Even though none of the antibodies from
this collaboration may ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if Sanofi does not perform its obligations with respect
to antibodies that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these antibody product candidates
will be significantly adversely affected.
If our
collaboration with Sanofi for ZALTRAP® is terminated,
or Sanofi materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business
operations, prospects, and financial condition, and our ability to develop,
manufacture, and commercialize ZALTRAP® in the time
expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. 
    
We rely heavily on Sanofi to lead much of the development of
ZALTRAP®. Sanofi initially funds all of the development expenses
incurred by both companies in connection with the ZALTRAP® program.
If the ZALTRAP® program continues, we will rely on Sanofi to assist
with funding the ZALTRAP® program, provide commercial manufacturing
capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval,
particularly outside the United States, and lead the commercialization of
ZALTRAP®. While ZALTRAP® may not ever be successfully
developed and commercialized, if Sanofi fails to perform its obligations in a
timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize
ZALTRAP® in cancer indications will be significantly adversely
affected. Sanofi has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us
at any time upon twelve months advance notice. If Sanofi were to terminate its
collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to
replace those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding
that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause
significant delays in the development and/or manufacture of ZALTRAP®
and result in substantial additional costs to us. We have limited commercial
capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities.
Termination of the Sanofi collaboration agreement for ZALTRAP® would
create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and
commercialization of ZALTRAP®.
36



If our
collaboration with Bayer HealthCare for EYLEA® is terminated, or Bayer
HealthCare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business
operations, prospects, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to
develop EYLEA® and commercialize
EYLEA® outside the United States in the time expected, or at all,
would be materially harmed. 
     We rely
heavily on Bayer HealthCare to assist with the development, and the
commercialization outside the United States, of EYLEA®. Under our
agreement with them, Bayer HealthCare is required to fund approximately half of
the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the
global EYLEA® development program. As the EYLEA® program
continues, we will continue to rely on Bayer HealthCare to assist with funding
the EYLEA® development program, continue to lead the development of
EYLEA® outside the United States, obtain regulatory approval outside
the United States, and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for
the product outside the United States. In particular, Bayer HealthCare has
responsibility for selling EYLEA® outside the United States using its
sales force. While we cannot assure you that EYLEA® will receive
regulatory approval in or outside the United States or be successfully
commercialized, if Bayer HealthCare does not perform its obligations in a timely
manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize
EYLEA® outside the United States will be significantly adversely
affected. Bayer HealthCare has the right to terminate its collaboration
agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months advance notice,
depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. If Bayer HealthCare
were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the
resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require us to
seek additional funding or another collaboration that might not be available on
favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development
and/or commercialization of EYLEA® outside the United States and
result in substantial additional costs to us. We currently have limited
commercial capabilities and would have to develop or outsource these
capabilities outside the United States. Termination of the Bayer HealthCare
collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the
successful development and commercialization of EYLEA®, particularly
outside the United States. 
Our
collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their
efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our
drug candidates and current and future products. 
    
We depend upon third-party collaborators, including Sanofi, Bayer
HealthCare, and service providers such as CROs, outside testing laboratories,
clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers, fill/finish, and
product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical
and clinical development of our product candidates. We also depend, or will
depend, on some of these third parties in connection with the commercialization
of EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD, ARCALYST® for the
treatment of CAPS, and our late-stage product candidates and new indications for
our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. If any of our existing
collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us
or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement
in a timely manner or in compliance with applicable GMPs, Good Laboratory
Practices (GLPs), or GCP Standards, we could experience additional costs,
delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining
approval by regulatory authorities for and successfully commercializing, our
product candidates. 
    
We rely on third-party service providers to support the distribution of
EYLEA® and ARCALYST® and for many other related activities
in connection with the commercialization of these marketed products. Despite our
arrangements with them, these third parties may not perform adequately. If these
service providers do not perform their services adequately, our sales of
EYLEA® for the treatment of wet AMD and ARCALYST® for the
treatment of CAPS will suffer. 
Risk Related to Employees

We are
dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in
our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our
business will be harmed. 
    
We are highly dependent on certain of
our executive officers, other key members of our senior management team, and our
Chairman. If we are not able to retain any of these persons, our business may
suffer. In particular, we depend on the services of P. Roy Vagelos, M.D., the
Chairman of our board of directors, Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., our
President and Chief Executive Officer, George D. Yancopoulos, M.D., Ph.D., our
Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Regeneron
Research Laboratories, and Neil Stahl, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President,
Research and Development Sciences. As we commercialize EYLEA® in the
United States for the treatment of wet AMD and prepare for commercialization in the
United States of EYLEA® for the treatment of CRVO and ARCALYST®
for the treatment of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering
therapy, should they receive regulatory approval, we will also be highly
dependent on the expertise and services of members of our senior management
leading these commercialization efforts. There is intense competition in the
biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the
development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. We may not be able to
continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to
advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives.
37



Information Technology Risks

   Significant
disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could
adversely affect our business.
     Our business
is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information
technology systems, including Internet-based systems, to support business
processes as well as internal and external communications. The size and
complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to
breakdown, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses which may result in the
impairment of production and key business processes.
    
In addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security
breaches—whether by employees or others—which may expose sensitive data to
unauthorized persons. Such data security breaches could lead to the loss of
trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public
exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of
our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others.
    
Such disruptions and breaches of security could have a material adverse
effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial
condition.
Risks Related to Our Common Stock

   Our stock price is
extremely volatile. 
    
There has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in
the market prices of biotechnology companies’ securities. Various factors and
events may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock.
These factors include, by way of example: 

  announcement of
  actions by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities or their respective
  advisory committees regarding our, or our collaborators’ currently pending or
  future application(s) for regulatory approval of our product candidate(s) or
  new indications for our marketed products;
  announcement of submission of an application for
  regulatory approval of one or more of our product candidates or new
  indications for our marketed products;
  progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical
  trials;
  announcement of technological innovations or
  product candidates by us or competitors;
  fluctuations in our operating results; in
  particular, net product sales of, and profits from, EYLEA® and, if
  any of our product candidates or our new indications for our marketed products
  receive regulatory approval, net product sales of, and profits from, these
  product candidates and new indications;
  market acceptance of, and fluctuations in market share for, our marketed products,
  especially EYLEA®, and whether these factors, including our net
  products sales, underperform, meet, or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts; 
  third-party claims
  that our products or technologies infringe their patents;
  third-party challenges to our patents in the
  European Patent Office and in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office;
  public concern as to the safety or effectiveness
  of any of our marketed products or product candidates or new indications for
  our marketed products, including EYLEA®, ZALTRAP®, or
  ARCALYST® for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating
  uric acid-lowering therapy;
  pricing or reimbursement actions or decisions by
  government authorities or insurers affecting the coverage or reimbursement of
  any of our marketed products or competitors’ products;
  our ability to raise additional capital as needed
  on favorable terms; 
  developments in our relationship with
  collaborative partners; 
  developments in the biotechnology industry or in
  government regulation of healthcare;
  large sales of our Common Stock by our executive
  officers, directors, or significant shareholders;
  arrivals and departures of key personnel;
  and 
  general market conditions.



38




     The trading
price of our Common Stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide
fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or
attempted sale of a large amount of our Common Stock in the market. Broad market
fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.

Future
sales of our Common Stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our
stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings.

    
A small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount
of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2011, our six largest shareholders plus
Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D, Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially
owned 61.9% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming, in the case of
our Chief Executive Officer, the conversion of his Class A Stock into Common
Stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within
60 days of December 31, 2011. In September 2003, Sanofi (then Aventis
Pharmaceuticals Inc.) purchased 2,799,552 newly issued, unregistered shares of
our Common Stock, and in December 2007 Sanofi purchased an additional 12,000,000
newly issued, unregistered shares of our Common Stock. Under our investor
agreement, as amended, with Sanofi, these shares may not be sold until December
20, 2017 except under limited circumstances and subject to earlier termination
of these restrictions upon the occurrence of certain events. In addition, in
October 2010, Sanofi purchased an additional 1,017,401 shares of Common Stock in
our underwritten public offering. As of December 31, 2011, Sanofi beneficially
owned 15,816,953 shares of our Common Stock, representing approximately 17.4% of
the shares of Common Stock then outstanding. If Sanofi, or our other significant
shareholders or we, sell substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public
market, or the perception that such sales may occur exists, the market price of
our Common Stock could fall. Sales of Common Stock by our significant
shareholders, including Sanofi, also might make it more difficult for us to
raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a
time and price that we deem appropriate. 
Our
existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters
requiring shareholder approval. 
    
Holders of Class A Stock, who are generally the shareholders who
purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled
to ten votes per share, while holders of Common Stock are entitled to one vote
per share. As of December 31, 2011, holders of Class A Stock held 18.9% of the
combined voting power of all shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock then
outstanding. These shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to
significantly influence the election of our directors and the vote on certain
corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the
combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. This may
result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider
to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our Common Stock. As of
December 31, 2011: 

  our current executive officers and directors
  beneficially owned 12.0% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming
  conversion of their Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of all
  options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of December
  31, 2011, and 25.0% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of
  Common Stock and Class A Stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by
  such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2011;
  and 
  our six largest shareholders plus Leonard S.
  Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D. our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 61.9%
  of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming, in the case of our Chief
  Executive Officer, the conversion of his Class A Stock into Common Stock and
  the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days
  of December 31, 2011. In addition, these seven shareholders held 65.1% of the
  combined voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock and Class A
  Stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our Chief Executive
  Officer which are exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2011.


    
Pursuant to an investor agreement, as amended, Sanofi has agreed to vote
its shares, at Sanofi’s election, either as recommended by our board of
directors or proportionally with the votes cast by our other shareholders,
except with respect to certain change of control transactions, liquidation or
dissolution, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 10% of the then outstanding
shares or voting rights of Common Stock and Class A Stock, and new equity
compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our
historical equity compensation practices.
39





The
anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of New York
corporate law and the contractual “standstill” provisions in our investor
agreement with Sanofi, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other
“change in control” of us and could adversely affect the price of our Common
Stock. 
    
Our restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the New York
Business Corporation Law contain various provisions that could have the effect
of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management
that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. Some of these provisions
could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to
elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also
limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares
of our Common Stock. These provisions include: 

  authorization to
  issue “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be
  created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder
  approval, with rights senior to those of our Common Stock and Class A
  Stock; 
  a staggered board
  of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to
  replace all of our directors;
  a requirement that removal of directors may only
  be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty
  percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as
  well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled
  only by the remaining directors;
  a provision whereby any action required or
  permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a
  meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the
  effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a
  duly convened meeting;
  a requirement that any shareholder seeking to
  bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely
  notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements;
  and
  under the New York Business Corporation Law, in
  addition to certain restrictions which may apply to “business combinations”
  involving our company and an “interested shareholder”, a plan of merger or
  consolidation of our company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of
  all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. See the risk factor
  immediately above captioned “Our existing
  shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring
  shareholder approval.” 
     Until the
later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our
antibody collaboration agreements with Sanofi or our ZALTRAP®
collaboration with Sanofi, Sanofi will be bound by certain “standstill”
provisions, as amended, which contractually prohibit Sanofi from acquiring more
than certain specified percentages of our Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken
together) or otherwise seeking to obtain control of our company.
    
In addition, we have a Change in Control Severance Plan and our Chief
Executive Officer has an employment agreement that provides severance benefits
in the event our officers are terminated as a result of a change in control of
our company. Many of our stock options issued under our 2000 Long-Term Incentive
Plan, as amended and restated, may become fully vested in connection with a
“change in control” of our company, as defined in the plan. These contractual
provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an
acquisition or other change in control. 
Risks Relating to Our Convertible
Senior Notes and Related Hedge Transactions 
The
convertible note hedges and warrant transactions we entered into in connection
with our 1.875% Convertible Senior Notes issuance may affect the trading price
of our Common Stock. 
    
In connection with our offering of our 1.875% Convertible Senior Notes
due October 1, 2016, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with
four financial institutions (the “hedge counterparties”). The convertible note
hedge transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution to our Common
Stock and/or offset potential cash payments in excess of the principal amount of
the notes, as the case may be upon conversion of the notes. In the event that
the hedge counterparties fail to deliver shares to us or potential cash payments
as the case may be as required under the convertible note hedge documents, we
would not receive the benefit of such transactions. Separately, we also entered
into warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties. The warrant
transactions could separately have a dilutive effect from the issuance of Common
Stock pursuant to the warrants.
    
In connection with hedging these transactions, the hedge counterparties
and/or their affiliates may enter into various derivative transactions with
respect to our Common Stock, and may enter into, or may unwind, various
derivative transactions and/or purchase or sell our Common Stock or other
securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to maturity of the notes (and are likely
to do so during any conversion period related to any conversion of the notes).
These activities could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in,
or could have a negative effect on, the value of our Common Stock and could have
the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our Common
Stock during any cash settlement averaging period related to a conversion of the
notes.
40


     In addition,
we intend to exercise options under the convertible note hedge transactions
whenever notes are converted. In order to unwind its hedge position with respect
to the options we exercise, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may
sell shares of our Common Stock or other securities in secondary market
transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our
Common Stock during the cash settlement averaging period for the converted
notes. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the
trading price of our Common Stock or the notes will depend in part on market
conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities
could adversely affect the value of our Common Stock and the value of the notes.
The derivative transactions that the hedge counterparties and/or their
affiliates expect to enter into to hedge these transactions may include
cash-settled equity swaps referenced to our Common Stock. In certain
circumstances, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may have
derivative positions that, when combined with the hedge counterparties’ and
their affiliates’ ownership of our Common Stock, if any, would give them
economic exposure to the return on a significant number of shares of our Common
Stock. 
The
fundamental change provisions of our 1.875% Convertible Senior Notes and certain
of the terms of the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may delay or
prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of us. 
    
The fundamental change purchase rights, which will allow noteholders to
require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a
fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the notes, and the
provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in
connection with make-whole fundamental changes, as set forth in the indenture,
may in certain circumstances delay or prevent a takeover of us and the removal
of incumbent management that might otherwise be beneficial to investors. In
addition, upon the occurrence of certain extraordinary events, the convertible
note hedge transactions would be exercised upon the conversion of notes, and the
warrant transactions may be terminated. It is possible that the proceeds we
receive upon the exercise of the convertible note hedge transactions would be
significantly lower than the amounts we would be required to pay upon
termination of the warrant transactions. Such differences may result in the
acquisition of us being on terms less favorable to our shareholders than it
would otherwise be.
ITEM 1B