Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We operate in an environment that involves a number of
    significant risks and uncertainties. We caution you to read the
    following risk factors, which have affected,
    and/or in
    the future could affect, our business, operating results,
    financial condition, and cash flows. The risks described below
    include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our
    actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in
    these forward-looking statements. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently
    deem immaterial may also impair



    
    12



 




    our business operations. Furthermore, additional risks and
    uncertainties are described under other captions in this report
    and should be considered by our investors.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Additional
    Financing


 



    We
    have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve
    profitability. If we continue to incur operating losses, we may
    be unable to continue our operations.


 


    From inception on January 8, 1988 through December 31,
    2007, we had a cumulative loss of $793.2 million. If we
    continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a
    profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations.
    We have no products that are available for sale and do not know
    when we will have products available for sale, if ever. In the
    absence of revenue from the sale of products or other sources,
    the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be
    predicted, our losses will continue as we conduct our research
    and development activities.


 



    We may
    need additional funding in the future, which may not be
    available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or
    eliminate our product development programs or commercialization
    efforts.


 


    We will need to expend substantial resources for research and
    development, including costs associated with clinical testing of
    our product candidates. We believe our existing capital
    resources, including funding we are entitled to receive under
    our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet operating
    needs through at least 2012; however, one or more of our
    collaboration agreements may terminate, our projected revenue
    may decrease, or our expenses may increase and that would lead
    to our capital being consumed significantly before such time. We
    may require additional financing in the future and we may not be
    able to raise such additional funds. If we are able to obtain
    additional financing through the sale of equity or convertible
    debt securities, such sales may be dilutive to our shareholders.
    Debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain
    assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business
    activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may
    contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders.
    If we are unable to raise sufficient funds to complete the
    development of our product candidates, we may face delay,
    reduction or elimination of our research and development
    programs or preclinical or clinical trials, in which case our
    business, financial condition or results of operations may be
    materially harmed.


 



    We
    have a significant amount of debt that is scheduled to mature in
    2008.


 


    We have $200.0 million of convertible debt that, unless
    converted to shares of our Common Stock, will mature in October
    2008. Our debt obligations could require us to use a significant
    portion of our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt.


 



    Risks
    Related to Development of Our Product Candidates


 



    Successful
    development of any of our product candidates is highly
    uncertain.


 


    Only a small minority of all research and development programs
    ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. We have
    never developed a drug that has been approved for marketing and
    sale, and we may never succeed in developing an approved drug.
    Even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and effectiveness of
    any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the
    necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial
    success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their
    acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party
    payers and on our partners’ ability to successfully
    manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. Our
    product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion
    or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are
    generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule
    delivery. If our products are not successfully commercialized,
    we will not be able to recover the significant investment we
    have made in developing such products and our business would be
    severely harmed.


 


    We are studying our lead product candidates, aflibercept, VEGF
    Trap-Eye, and
    ARCALYSTTM,
    in a wide variety of indications. We are studying aflibercept in
    a variety of cancer settings, the VEGF Trap-Eye in different eye
    diseases and ophthalmologic indications, and
    ARCALYSTTM
    in a variety of systemic inflammatory disorders.



    
    13



 




    Many of these current trials are exploratory studies designed to
    identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for our
    product candidates. It is likely that our product candidates
    will not demonstrate the requisite efficacy
    and/or
    safety profile to support continued development for most of the
    indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied. In
    fact, our product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite
    efficacy and safety profile to support the continued development
    for any of the indications or uses.


 



    Clinical
    trials required for our product candidates are expensive and
    time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. If any of
    our drug trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we
    will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory
    approval for our product candidates.


 


    We must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates
    before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell
    them. We need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and
    human clinical trials. Conducting these trials is a lengthy,
    time-consuming, and expensive process. These tests and trials
    may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including,
    among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate
    safety or efficacy, the development of serious or
    life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or
    connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in
    enrolling and maintaining subjects in the clinical trial, lack
    of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator
    drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors
    and other consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the
    trial plan or protocol. A clinical trial may fail because it did
    not include a sufficient number of patients to detect the
    endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. A
    clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the
    investigational drug included in the trial were either too low
    or too high to determine the optimal effect of the
    investigational drug in the disease setting. For example, we are
    studying higher doses of
    ARCALYSTTM
    in different diseases after a Phase 2 trial using lower doses of
    ARCALYSTTM
    in subjects with rheumatoid arthritis failed to achieve its
    primary endpoint.


 


    We will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test
    favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and
    time consuming, or abandon the drug development program. Even if
    we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical trials,
    we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Many
    companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including us, have
    suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after
    promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. The
    failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and
    effectiveness for the desired indication(s) could harm the
    development of the product candidate(s), and our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations may be materially
    harmed.


 



    The
    data from the Phase 3 clinical program for
    ARCALYSTTM
    in CAPS (Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes) may be
    inadequate to support regulatory approval for commercialization
    of
    ARCALYSTTM.


 


    We submitted a completed BLA to the FDA for
    ARCALYSTTM
    in CAPS in the second quarter of 2007. However, the efficacy and
    safety data from the Phase 3 clinical program included in the
    BLA may be inadequate to support approval for commercialization
    of
    ARCALYSTTM.
    The FDA and other regulatory agencies may have varying
    interpretations of our clinical trial data, which could delay,
    limit, or prevent regulatory approval or clearance.


 


    Further, before a product candidate is approved for marketing,
    our manufacturing facilities must be inspected by the FDA and
    the FDA will not approve the product for marketing if we or our
    third party manufacturers are not in compliance with current
    good manufacturing practices. Even if the FDA and similar
    foreign regulatory authorities do grant marketing approval for
    ARCALYSTTM,
    they may pose restrictions on the use or marketing of the
    product, or may require us to conduct additional post-marketing
    trials. These restrictions and requirements would likely result
    in increased expenditures and lower revenues and may restrict
    our ability to commercialize
    ARCALYSTTM
    profitably.


 


    In addition to the FDA and other regulatory agency regulations
    in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign
    regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials,
    marketing and approval for drugs, and commercial sales and
    distribution of drugs in foreign countries. The foreign
    regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated
    with FDA approval as well as country-specific regulations.
    Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product in the
    United States, we must obtain approval by the comparable
    regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can
    commence clinical trials or marketing of
    ARCALYSTTM
    in those countries.



    
    14



 





    Serious
    complications or side effects have occurred, and may continue to
    occur, in clinical trials of some of our product candidates
    which could lead to delay or discontinuation of development and
    severely harm our business.


 


    During the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes
    in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts,
    to their study doctor. Often, it is not possible to determine
    whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these
    conditions. Various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have
    been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our
    product candidates. It is possible as we test our drug
    candidates in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical
    programs, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were
    observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not
    occur or went undetected in smaller previous trials, will be
    reported by patients. Many times, side effects are only
    detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large
    scale, Phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are
    made available to patients after approval. If additional
    clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates
    has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side
    effects, the development of the product candidate may fail or be
    delayed, which would severely harm our business.


 


    Our aflibercept (VEGF Trap) is being studied for the potential
    treatment of certain types of cancer and our VEGF Trap-Eye
    candidate is being studied in diseases of the eye. There are
    many potential safety concerns associated with significant
    blockade of vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF. These
    serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on the
    clinical and preclinical experience of systemically delivered
    VEGF inhibitors, including the systemic delivery of the VEGF
    Trap, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension,
    and proteinuria. These serious side effects and other serious
    side effects have been reported in our systemic VEGF Trap
    studies in cancer and diseases of the eye. In addition, patients
    given infusions of any protein, including the VEGF Trap
    delivered through intravenous administration, may develop severe
    hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. Other VEGF
    blockers have reported side effects that became evident only
    after large scale trials or after marketing approval and large
    number of patients were treated. These include side effects that
    we have not yet seen in our trials such as heart attack and
    stroke. These and other complications or side effects could harm
    the development of aflibercept for the treatment of cancer or
    the VEGF Trap-Eye for the treatment of diseases of the eye.


 


    It is possible that safety or tolerability concerns may arise as
    we continue to test
    ARCALYSTTM
    in patients with inflammatory diseases and disorders. Like
    cytokine antagonists such as
    Kineret®
    (Amgen),
    Enbrel®
    (Immunex), and
    Remicade®
    (Centocor),
    ARCALYSTTM
    affects the immune defense system of the body by blocking some
    of its functions. Therefore,
    ARCALYSTTM
    may interfere with the body’s ability to fight infections.
    Treatment with
    Kineret®
    (Amgen), a medication that works through the inhibition of IL-1,
    has been associated with an increased risk of serious
    infections, and serious infections have been reported in
    patients taking
    ARCALYSTTM.
    One subject with adult Still’s diseases in a study of
    ARCALYSTTM
    developed an infection in his elbow with mycobacterium
    intracellulare. The patient was on chronic glucocorticoid
    treatment for Still’s disease. The infection occurred after
    an intraarticular glucocorticoid injection into the elbow and
    subsequent local exposure to a suspected source of mycobacteria.
    One patient with polymayalgia rheumatica in another study
    developed bronchitis/sinusitis, which resulted in
    hospitalization. One patient in an open-label study of
    ARCALYSTTM
    in CAPS developed sinusitis and streptococcus pneumoniae
    meningitis and subsequently died. In addition, patients given
    infusions of
    ARCALYSTTM
    have developed hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions.
    These or other complications or side effects could impede or
    result in us abandoning the development of
    ARCALYSTTM.


 



    Our
    product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that
    could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of
    harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic
    protein.


 


    In addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and
    regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the
    administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an
    immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against
    the therapeutic protein. The antibodies can have no effect or
    can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or
    require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic
    effect. In some cases, the antibody can cross react with the
    patient’s own proteins, resulting in an
    “auto-immune” type disease. Whether antibodies will be
    created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical
    experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed,
    so that there can be no assurance that neutralizing antibodies
    will not be detected at a later date, in some cases even after
    pivotal clinical trials have been completed. Of the clinical
    study subjects who



    
    15



 




    received
    ARCALYSTTM
    for rheumatoid arthritis and other indications, fewer than 5% of
    patients developed antibodies and no side effects related to
    antibodies were observed. Using a very sensitive test,
    approximately 40% of the patients in the CAPS pivotal study
    tested positive at least once for low levels of antibodies to
    ARCALYSTTM.
    Again, no side effects related to antibodies were observed and
    there were no observed effects on drug efficacy or drug levels.
    However, it is possible that as we continue to test aflibercept
    and VEGF Trap-Eye with more sensitive assays in different
    patient populations and larger clinical trials, we will find
    that subjects given aflibercept and VEGF Trap-Eye develop
    antibodies to these product candidates, and may also experience
    side effects related to the antibodies, which could adversely
    impact the development of such candidates.


 



    We may
    be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in
    a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial
    use.


 


    Changes in product formulations and manufacturing processes may
    be required as product candidates progress in clinical
    development and are ultimately commercialized. For example, we
    are currently testing a new formulation of the VEGF Trap-Eye. If
    we are unable to develop suitable product formulations or
    manufacturing processes to support large scale clinical testing
    of our product candidates, including aflibercept, VEGF Trap-Eye,
    ARCALYSTTM,
    and REGN88, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for
    our clinical trials, which would delay the development of our
    product candidates. Similarly, if we are unable to supply
    sufficient quantities of our product or develop product
    formulations suitable for commercial use, we will not be able to
    successfully commercialize our product candidates.


 



    Risks
    Related to Intellectual Property


 



    If we
    cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our
    patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our
    business and competitive position will be harmed.


 


    Our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology
    and other information that we protect as trade secrets. We seek
    to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through
    confidentiality agreements. If our trade secrets are improperly
    exposed, either by our own employees or our collaborators, it
    would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. We
    will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized
    use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are
    covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively
    maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of
    biotechnology companies involves complex legal and factual
    questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted
    with certainty. Our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or
    circumvented. Patent applications filed outside the United
    States may be challenged by third parties who file an
    opposition. Such opposition proceedings are increasingly common
    in the European Union and are costly to defend. We have patent
    applications that are being opposed and it is likely that we
    will need to defend additional patent applications in the
    future. Our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary
    position or competitive advantages against competitors.
    Furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the
    enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely
    expensive and time consuming.


 



    We may
    be restricted in our development and/or commercialization
    activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are
    found to have infringed, third party patents or other
    proprietary rights.


 


    Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to
    operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary
    rights of third parties. Other parties may allege that they have
    blocking patents to our products in clinical development, either
    because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition
    of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. Moreover,
    other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to
    antibody products made using our VelocImmune technology,
    either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or
    produced or because of a proprietary position covering an
    antibody or the antibody’s target.


 


    We are aware of patents and pending applications owned by
    Genentech that claim certain chimeric VEGF receptor
    compositions. Although we do not believe that aflibercept or the
    VEGF Trap-Eye infringes any valid claim in these patents or
    patent applications, Genentech could initiate a lawsuit for
    patent infringement and assert that its patents are valid and
    cover aflibercept or the VEGF Trap-Eye. Genentech may be
    motivated to initiate such a lawsuit at some point in an effort
    to impair our ability to develop and sell aflibercept or the
    VEGF Trap-Eye, which



    
    16



 




    represents a potential competitive threat to Genentech’s
    VEGF-binding products and product candidates. An adverse
    determination by a court in any such potential patent litigation
    would likely materially harm our business by requiring us to
    seek a license, which may not be available, or resulting in our
    inability to manufacture, develop and sell aflibercept or the
    VEGF Trap-Eye or in a damage award.


 


    We are aware of patents and pending applications owned by Roche
    that claim antibodies to the interleukin-6 receptor and methods
    of treating rheumatoid arthritis with such antibodies. We are
    developing REGN88, an antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor,
    for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Although we do not
    believe that REGN88 infringes any valid claim in these patents
    or patent applications, Roche could initiate a lawsuit for
    patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover
    REGN88.


 


    Further, we are aware of a number of other third party patent
    applications that, if granted, with claims as currently drafted,
    may cover our current or planned activities. We cannot assure
    you that our products
    and/or
    actions in manufacturing and selling our product candidates will
    not infringe such patents.


 


    In December 2003, we entered into a non-exclusive license
    agreement with Cellectis Inc. that granted us certain rights in
    a family of patents relating to homologous recombination.
    Cellectis now claims that agreements we entered into relating to
    our VelocImmune mice with AstraZeneca, Astellas, and
    sanofi-aventis are outside of the scope of our license from
    Cellectis. We disagree with Cellectis’ position and are in
    discussions with Cellectis regarding this matter. If we are not
    able to resolve this dispute, Cellectis may commence a lawsuit
    against us and our VelocImmune licensees alleging
    infringement of Cellectis’ patents.


 


    Any patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent
    us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug
    candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly
    issued patents of third parties. In the event that the
    manufacture, use, or sale of any of our clinical candidates
    infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of
    third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product
    development, manufacturing, and commercialization of our drugs
    and may be required to pay costly damages. Such a result may
    materially harm our business, financial condition, and results
    of operations. Legal disputes are likely to be costly and time
    consuming to defend.


 


    We seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment,
    such licenses are needed. If any licenses are required, we may
    not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable
    terms, if at all. The failure to obtain any such license could
    prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of
    our product candidates, which could severely harm our business.


 



    Regulatory
    and Litigation Risks


 



    If we
    do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we
    will not be able to market or sell them.


 


    We cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval.
    If we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our
    product candidates, the value of our company and our results of
    operations will be harmed. In the United States, we must obtain
    and maintain approval from the United States Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA) for each drug we intend to sell. Obtaining
    FDA approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and
    approval is highly uncertain. Foreign governments also regulate
    drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country
    is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is
    highly uncertain. None of our product candidates has ever
    received regulatory approval to be marketed and sold in the
    United States or any other country. We may never receive
    regulatory approval for any of our product candidates.


 


    Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA
    requires that the facilities at which the product will be
    manufactured be in compliance with current good manufacturing
    practices, or cGMP requirements. Manufacturing product
    candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is
    complex, time-consuming, and expensive. To be successful, our
    products must be manufactured for development, following
    approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with
    regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. If we or any
    of our product collaborators or third-party manufacturers,
    product packagers, or labelers are unable to maintain regulatory
    compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory sanctions, including,
    among other things, refusal to approve a pending



    
    17



 




    application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of
    a pre-existing approval. As a result, our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed.


 



    If the
    testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject
    to costly and damaging product liability claims.


 


    The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use
    in people expose us to product liability risk. Any informed
    consent or waivers obtained from people who sign up for our
    clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of
    litigation. Our product liability insurance may not cover all
    potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability
    arising from any such litigation. Moreover, we may not have
    access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our
    insurance on acceptable terms.


 



    Our
    operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to
    environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. We may
    incur substantial liability arising from our activities
    involving the use of hazardous materials.


 


    As a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing
    operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health,
    and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the
    use of hazardous materials. Our research and development and
    manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of
    chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous
    materials. The cost of compliance with environmental, health,
    and safety regulations is substantial. If an accident involving
    these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we
    could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face
    regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or
    insurance coverage.


 



    Changes
    in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are
    likely to continue to increase, our costs.


 


    The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002,
    has required changes in some of our corporate governance,
    securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to
    the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock
    Market have promulgated rules and listing standards covering a
    variety of subjects. Compliance with these rules and listing
    standards has increased our legal costs, and significantly
    increased our accounting and auditing costs, and we expect these
    costs to continue. These developments may make it more difficult
    and more expensive for us to obtain directors’ and
    officers’ liability insurance. Likewise, these developments
    may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain
    qualified members of our board of directors, particularly
    independent directors, or qualified executive officers.


 



    In
    future years, if we are unable to conclude that our internal
    control over financial reporting is effective, the market value
    of our common stock could be adversely affected.


 


    As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to
    include a report of management on the Company’s internal
    control over financial reporting in their annual reports on
    Form 10-K
    that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness
    of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition,
    the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our
    financial statements must attest to and report on the
    effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.
    Our independent registered public accounting firm provided us
    with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2007, which report is included in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.
    However, we cannot assure you that management or our independent
    registered public accounting firm will be able to provide such
    an unqualified report as of future year-ends. In this event,
    investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our
    financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the
    market value of our common stock. In addition, if it is
    determined that deficiencies in the design or operation of
    internal controls exist and that they are reasonably likely to
    adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize, and
    report financial information, we would likely incur additional
    costs to remediate these deficiencies and the costs of such
    remediation could be material.



    
    18



 





    Risks
    Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties


 



    If our
    antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis is terminated, our
    business operations and our ability to discover, develop,
    manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product
    candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially
    harmed.


 


    We rely heavily on the funding from sanofi-aventis to support
    our target discovery and antibody research and development
    programs. Sanofi-aventis has committed to pay up to
    $475.0 million between 2008 and 2012 to fund our efforts to
    identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically
    develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets.
    In addition, sanofi-aventis funds almost all of the development
    expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the
    clinical development of antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to
    co-develop with us. We rely on sanofi-aventis to fund these
    activities. In addition, with respect to those antibodies that
    sanofi-aventis elects to co-develop with us, such as REGN88, we
    rely on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the clinical development
    efforts and assist with obtaining regulatory approval,
    particularly outside the United States. We also rely on
    sanofi-aventis to lead the commercialization efforts to support
    all of the antibody products that are co-developed by
    sanofi-aventis and us. If sanofi-aventis does not elect to
    co-develop the antibodies that we discover or opts-out of their
    development, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own
    the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the
    ensuing commercialization efforts to support our antibody
    products. Sanofi-aventis may terminate the collaboration for our
    material breach or, in the case of the discovery agreement, if
    certain minimal criteria for the discovery program are not
    achieved by December 31, 2010. If sanofi-aventis terminates
    the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment
    obligations thereunder, our business, financial condition, and
    results of operations would be materially harmed. We would be
    required to either expend substantially more resources than we
    have anticipated to support our research and development
    efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that
    might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or
    materially cut back on such activities. While we cannot assure
    you that any of the antibodies from this collaboration will ever
    be successfully developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis
    does not perform its obligations with respect to antibodies that
    it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture,
    and commercialize these antibody product candidates will be
    significantly adversely affected.


 



    If our
    collaboration with sanofi-aventis for aflibercept (VEGF Trap) is
    terminated, or sanofi-aventis materially breaches its
    obligations thereunder, our business, operations and financial
    condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and
    commercialize aflibercept in the time expected, or at all, would
    be materially harmed.


 


    We rely heavily on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the
    development of aflibercept. Sanofi-aventis funds all of the
    development expenses incurred by both companies in connection
    with the aflibercept program. If the aflibercept program
    continues, we will rely on sanofi-aventis to assist with funding
    the aflibercept program, provide commercial manufacturing
    capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials, obtain regulatory
    approval, particularly outside the United States, and lead the
    commercialization of aflibercept. While we cannot assure you
    that aflibercept will ever be successfully developed and
    commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform its
    obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to
    develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in cancer
    indications will be significantly adversely affected.
    Sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate its collaboration
    agreement with us at any time upon twelve months advance notice.
    If sanofi-aventis were to terminate its collaboration agreement
    with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace
    those of our partner, which could require us to seek additional
    funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at
    all, and could cause significant delays in the development
    and/or
    manufacture of aflibercept and result in substantial additional
    costs to us. We have limited commercial capabilities and would
    have to develop or outsource these capabilities. Termination of
    the sanofi-aventis collaboration agreement would create
    substantial new and additional risks to the successful
    development and commercialization of aflibercept.



    
    19



 





    If our
    collaboration with Bayer HealthCare for the VEGF Trap-Eye is
    terminated, or Bayer HealthCare materially breaches its
    obligations thereunder, our business, operations and financial
    condition, and our ability to develop and commercialize the VEGF
    Trap-Eye in the time expected, or at all, would be materially
    harmed.


 


    We rely heavily on Bayer HealthCare to assist with the
    development of the VEGF Trap-Eye. Under our agreement with them,
    Bayer HealthCare is required to fund approximately half of the
    development expenses incurred by both companies in connection
    with the global VEGF Trap-Eye development program. If the VEGF
    Trap-Eye program continues, we will rely on Bayer HealthCare to
    assist with funding the VEGF Trap-Eye development program, lead
    the development of the VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States,
    obtain regulatory approval outside the United States, and
    provide all sales, marketing and commercial support for the
    product outside the United States. In particular, Bayer
    HealthCare has responsibility for selling VEGF Trap-Eye outside
    the United States using its sales force. While we cannot assure
    you that the VEGF Trap-Eye will ever be successfully developed
    and commercialized, if Bayer HealthCare does not perform its
    obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to
    develop, manufacture, and commercialize the VEGF Trap-Eye
    outside the United States will be significantly adversely
    affected. Bayer HealthCare has the right to terminate its
    collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve
    months advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving
    rise to termination. If Bayer HealthCare were to terminate its
    collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources
    or skills to replace those of our partner, which could require
    us to seek additional finding that might not be available on
    favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in
    the development
    and/or
    commercialization of the VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States
    and result in substantial additional costs to us. We have
    limited commercial capabilities and would have to develop or
    outsource these capabilities outside the United States.
    Termination of the Bayer HealthCare collaboration agreement
    would create substantial new and additional risks to the
    successful development and commercialization of the VEGF
    Trap-Eye.


 



    Our
    collaborators and service providers may fail to perform
    adequately in their efforts to support the development,
    manufacture, and commercialization of our drug
    candidates.


 


    We depend upon third-party collaborators, including
    sanofi-aventis, Bayer HealthCare, and service providers such as
    clinical research organizations, outside testing laboratories,
    clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers and
    product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture
    and development of our product candidates. If any of our
    existing collaborators or service providers breaches or
    terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its
    development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a
    timely manner or at all, we could experience additional costs,
    delays, and difficulties in the manufacture, development or
    ultimate commercialization of our product candidates.


 



    Risks
    Related to the Manufacture of Our Product Candidates


 



    We
    have limited manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit our
    ability to successfully develop or commercialize our
    drugs.


 


    Our manufacturing facility is likely to be inadequate to produce
    sufficient quantities of product for commercial sale. We intend
    to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract
    manufacturers, to produce the large quantities of drug material
    needed for commercialization of our products. We rely entirely
    on third-party manufacturers for filling and finishing services.
    We will have to depend on these manufacturers to deliver
    material on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory
    requirements. If we are unable to supply sufficient material on
    acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or
    difficulties in our relationships with our corporate
    collaborators or contract manufacturers, our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed.


 


    We must expand our own manufacturing capacity to support the
    planned growth of our clinical pipeline. Moreover, we may expand
    our manufacturing capacity to support commercial production of
    active pharmaceutical ingredients, or API, for our product
    candidates. This will require substantial additional
    expenditures, and we will need to hire and train significant
    numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our
    facility.
    Start-up
    costs can be large and
    scale-up
    entails significant risks related to process development and
    manufacturing yields. We may



    
    20



 




    be unable to develop manufacturing facilities that are
    sufficient to produce drug material for clinical trials or
    commercial use. This may delay our clinical development plans
    and interfere with our efforts to commercialize our products. In
    addition, we may be unable to secure adequate filling and
    finishing services to support our products. As a result, our
    business, financial condition, and results of operations may be
    materially harmed.


 


    We may be unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies for
    the manufacture of our product candidates. In addition, we may
    face difficulties in developing or acquiring production
    technology and managerial personnel to manufacture sufficient
    quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in
    compliance with applicable quality assurance and environmental
    regulations and governmental permitting requirements.


 



    If any
    of our clinical programs are discontinued, we may face costs
    related to the unused capacity at our manufacturing
    facilities.


 


    We have large-scale manufacturing operations in Rensselaer, New
    York. We use our facilities to produce bulk product for clinical
    and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations.
    If our clinical candidates are discontinued, we will have to
    absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and
    inefficiencies.


 



    Certain
    of our raw materials are single-sourced from third parties;
    third-party supply failures could adversely affect our ability
    to supply our products.


 


    Certain raw materials necessary for manufacturing and
    formulation of our product candidates are provided by
    single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. We would be
    unable to obtain these raw materials for an indeterminate period
    of time if these third-party single-source suppliers were to
    cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these
    materials or products to us for any reason, including due to
    regulatory requirements or action, due to adverse financial
    developments at or affecting the supplier, or due to labor
    shortages or disputes. This, in turn, could materially and
    adversely affect our ability to manufacture our product
    candidates for use in clinical trials, which could materially
    and adversely affect our business and future prospects.


 


    Also, certain of the raw materials required in the manufacturing
    and the formulation of our clinical candidates may be derived
    from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine
    serum, and human serum albumin. There are certain European
    regulatory restrictions on using these biological source
    materials. If we are required to substitute for these sources to
    comply with European regulatory requirements, our clinical
    development activities may be delayed or interrupted.


 



    Risks
    Related to Commercialization of Products


 



    If we
    are unable to establish sales, marketing, and distribution
    capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties to do
    so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future
    products.


 


    We have no sales or distribution personnel or capabilities and
    have only a small staff with commercial capabilities. If we are
    unable to obtain those capabilities, either by developing our
    own organizations or entering into agreements with service
    providers, we will not be able to successfully sell any products
    that we may obtain regulatory approval for and bring to market
    in the future. In that event, we will not be able to generate
    significant revenue, even if our product candidates are
    approved. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the
    qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or that we will
    be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with
    third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Under the
    terms of our collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we
    currently rely on sanofi-aventis for sales, marketing, and
    distribution of aflibercept in cancer indications, should it be
    approved in the future by regulatory authorities for marketing.
    We will have to rely on a third party or devote significant
    resources to develop our own sales, marketing, and distribution
    capabilities for our other product candidates, including the
    VEGF Trap-Eye in the United States, and we may be unsuccessful
    in developing our own sales, marketing, and distribution
    organization.



    
    21



 





    Even
    if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their
    commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors
    have received approval for products with the same mechanism of
    action, and competitors may get to the marketplace before we do
    with better or lower cost drugs or the market for our product
    candidates may be too small to support commercialization or
    sufficient profitability.


 


    There is substantial competition in the biotechnology and
    pharmaceutical industries from pharmaceutical, biotechnology,
    and chemical companies. Many of our competitors have
    substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product
    development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial,
    marketing, and human resources than we do. Our smaller
    competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they
    acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative
    arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even
    if we achieve product commercialization, our competitors have
    achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization
    before our products are approved for marketing and sale.


 


    Genentech has an approved VEGF antagonist,
    Avastin®
    (Genentech), on the market for treating certain cancers and many
    different pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working
    to develop competing VEGF antagonists, including Novartis, OSI
    Pharmaceuticals, and Pfizer. Many of these molecules are farther
    along in development than aflibercept and may offer competitive
    advantages over our molecule. Novartis has an ongoing Phase 3
    clinical development program evaluating an orally delivered VEGF
    tyrosine kinase inhibitor in different cancer settings. Each of
    Pfizer and Onyx Pharmaceuticals (together with its partner Bayer
    HealthCare) has received approval from the FDA to market and
    sell an oral medication that targets tumor cell growth and new
    vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors. The
    marketing approvals for Genentech’s VEGF antagonist,
    Avastin®
    (Genentech), and their extensive, ongoing clinical development
    plan for
    Avastin®
    (Genentech) in other cancer indications, make it more difficult
    for us to enroll patients in clinical trials to support
    aflibercept and to obtain regulatory approval of aflibercept in
    these cancer settings. This may delay or impair our ability to
    successfully develop and commercialize aflibercept. In addition,
    even if aflibercept is ever approved for sale for the treatment
    of certain cancers, it will be difficult for our drug to compete
    against
    Avastin®
    (Genentech) and the FDA approved kinase inhibitors, because
    doctors and patients will have significant experience using
    these medicines. In addition, an oral medication may be
    considerably less expensive for patients than a biologic
    medication, providing a competitive advantage to companies that
    market such products.


 


    The market for eye disease products is also very competitive.
    Novartis and Genentech are collaborating on the
    commercialization and further development of a VEGF antibody
    fragment
    (Lucentis®)
    for the treatment of age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD)
    and other eye indications that was approved by the FDA in June
    2006. Many other companies are working on the development of
    product candidates for the potential treatment of wet AMD that
    act by blocking VEGF, VEGF receptors, and through the use of
    soluble ribonucleic acids (sRNAs) that modulate gene expression.
    In addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label a third-party
    reformatted version of Genentech’s approved VEGF
    antagonist,
    Avastin®,
    with success for the treatment of wet AMD. The National Eye
    Institute recently has received funding for a Phase 3 trial to
    compare
    Lucentis®
    (Genentech) to
    Avastin®
    (Genentech) in the treatment of wet AMD. The marketing approval
    of
    Lucentis®
    (Genentech) and the potential off-label use of
    Avastin®
    (Genentech) make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in
    our clinical trials and successfully develop the VEGF Trap-Eye.
    Even if the VEGF Trap-Eye is ever approved for sale for the
    treatment of eye diseases, it may be difficult for our drug to
    compete against
    Lucentis®
    (Genentech), because doctors and patients will have significant
    experience using this medicine. Moreover, the relatively low
    cost of therapy with
    Avastin®
    (Genentech) in patients with wet AMD presents a further
    competitive challenge in this indication.


 


    The availability of highly effective FDA approved
    TNF-antagonists such as
    Enbrel®
    (Immunex),
    Remicade®
    (Centocor), and
    Humira®
    (Abbott), and the IL-1 receptor antagonist
    Kineret®
    (Amgen), and other marketed therapies makes it more difficult to
    successfully develop and commercialize
    ARCALYSTTM.
    This is one of the reasons we discontinued the development of
    ARCALYSTTM
    in adult rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, even if
    ARCALYSTTM
    is ever approved for sale, it will be difficult for our drug to
    compete against these FDA approved TNF-antagonists in
    indications where both are useful because doctors and patients
    will have significant experience using these effective
    medicines. Moreover, in such indications these approved
    therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over
    ARCALYSTTM,
    such as requiring fewer injections.



    
    22



 




    There are both small molecules and antibodies in development by
    other companies that are designed to block the synthesis of
    interleukin-1 or inhibit the signaling of interleukin-1. For
    example, Eli Lilly and Company, Xoma Ltd., and Novartis are each
    developing antibodies to interleukin-1 and Amgen is developing
    an antibody to the interleukin-1 receptor. Novartis has
    commenced advanced clinical testing of its IL-1 antibody in
    Muckle-Wells Syndrome, which is part of the group of rare
    genetic diseases called CAPS. Novartis’ IL-1 antibody and
    these other drug candidates could offer competitive advantages
    over
    ARCALYSTTM.
    The successful development of these competing molecules could
    delay or impair our ability to successfully develop and
    commercialize
    ARCALYSTTM.
    For example, we may find it difficult to enroll patients in
    clinical trials for
    ARCALYSTTM
    if the companies developing these competing interleukin-1
    inhibitors commence clinical trials in the same indications.


 


    We are developing
    ARCALYSTTM
    for the treatment of a group of rare diseases associated with
    mutations in the NLRP3 gene. These rare genetic disorders affect
    a small group of people, estimated to be in the hundreds. There
    may be too few patients with these genetic disorders to
    profitably commercialize
    ARCALYSTTM
    in this indication.


 


    We are developing REGN88 for the treatment of rheumatoid
    arthritis. The availability of highly effective FDA approved
    TNF-antagonists such as
    Enbrel®
    (Immunex),
    Remicade®
    (Centocor), and
    Humira®
    (Abbott), and other marketed therapies makes it more difficult
    to successfully develop and commercialize REGN88. REGN88 is a
    human monoclonal antibody targeting the interleukin-6 receptor.
    Roche is developing an antibody against the interleukin-6 (IL-6)
    receptor. Roche’s antibody has completed Phase 3 clinical
    trials and is the subject of a filed Biologics License
    Application with the FDA. Roche’s IL-6 receptor antibody,
    other clinical candidates in development, and drugs now or in
    the future on the market to treat rheumatoid arthritis could
    offer competitive advantages over REGN88. This could delay or
    impair our ability to successfully develop and commercialize
    REGN88.


 



    The
    successful commercialization of our product candidates will
    depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these
    products from third-party payers and these payers may not agree
    to cover or reimburse for use of our products.


 


    Our products, if commercialized, may be significantly more
    expensive than traditional drug treatments. Our future revenues
    and profitability will be adversely affected if United States
    and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and
    payers, and other third-party payers, including Medicare and
    Medicaid, do not agree to defray or reimburse the cost of our
    products to the patients. If these entities refuse to provide
    coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or
    provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our
    products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and
    physicians may not prescribe them. Many third-party payers cover
    only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such
    payer more expensive for patients, and require prior
    authorization or failure on another type of treatment before
    covering a particular drug. Payers may especially impose these
    obstacles to coverage on higher-priced drugs, as our product
    candidates are likely to be.


 


    We are seeking approval to market
    ARCALYSTTM
    for the treatment of a group of rare genetic disorders called
    CAPS. There may be too few patients with CAPS to profitably
    commercialize
    ARCALYSTTM.
    Physicians may not prescribe
    ARCALYSTTM
    and CAPS patients may not be able to afford
    ARCALYSTTM
    if third party payers do not agree to reimburse the cost of
    ARCALYSTTM
    therapy and this would adversely affect our ability to
    commercialize
    ARCALYSTTM
    profitably.


 


    In addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of
    reimbursement for our products may also reduce our
    profitability. In the United States, there have been, and we
    expect will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and
    reduce healthcare costs. Government and other third-party payers
    are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and
    increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage
    and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs.


 


    Since our products, including
    ARCALYSTTM,
    will likely be too expensive for most patients to afford without
    health insurance coverage, if our products are unable to obtain
    adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers our
    ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates may
    be adversely impacted. Any limitation on the use of our products
    or any decrease in the price of our products will have a
    material adverse effect on our ability to achieve profitability.



    
    23



 




    In certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage and level of
    reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental
    control, and we may be unable to negotiate coverage, pricing,
    and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us. In some
    foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be
    approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements
    governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For
    example, the European Union provides options for its member
    states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which
    their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement
    and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A
    member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal
    product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect
    controls on the profitability of the company placing the
    medicinal product on the market. Our results of operations may
    suffer if we are unable to market our products in foreign
    countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in
    foreign countries is limited.


 



    Risk
    Related to Employees


 



    We are
    dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and
    retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and
    commercial organizations, our business will be
    harmed.


 


    We are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers. If
    we are not able to retain any of these persons or our Chairman,
    our business may suffer. In particular, we depend on the
    services of P. Roy Vagelos, M.D., the Chairman of our board
    of directors, Leonard Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., our
    President and Chief Executive Officer, George D.
    Yancopoulos, M.D., Ph.D., our Executive Vice
    President, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Regeneron
    Research Laboratories, and Neil Stahl, Ph.D., our Senior
    Vice President, Research and Development Sciences. There is
    intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified
    scientists and managerial personnel in the development,
    manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. We may not be able
    to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel
    necessary for developing our business.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Common Stock


 



    Our
    stock price is extremely volatile.


 


    There has been significant volatility in our stock price and
    generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies’
    securities. Various factors and events may have a significant
    impact on the market price of our common stock. These factors
    include, by way of example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical trials;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcement of technological innovations or product candidates
    by us or competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in our operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of our product
    candidates;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments in our relationship with collaborative partners;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments in the biotechnology industry or in government
    regulation of healthcare;




 



     
        • 

    
    large sales of our common stock by our executive officers,
    directors, or significant shareholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    arrivals and departures of key personnel; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general market conditions.





 


    The trading price of our Common Stock has been, and could
    continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to
    these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of
    a large amount of our Common Stock in the market. Broad market
    fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our
    Common Stock.


 



    Future
    sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us
    may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise
    funds in new share offerings.


 


    A small number of our shareholders beneficially own a
    substantial amount of our common stock. As of December 31,
    2007, our seven largest shareholders beneficially owned 54.0% of
    our outstanding shares of Common



    
    24



 




    Stock, assuming, in the case of Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D.
    Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer, and P. Roy
    Vagelos, M.D., our Chairman, the conversion of their
    Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of all
    options held by them which are exercisable within 60 days
    of December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007,
    sanofi-aventis beneficially owned 14,799,552 shares of
    Common Stock, representing approximately 19.3% of the shares of
    Common Stock then outstanding. Under our investor agreement with
    sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis may not sell these shares until
    December 20, 2012 except under limited circumstances and
    subject to earlier termination rights of these restrictions upon
    the occurrence of certain events. Notwithstanding these
    restrictions, if sanofi-aventis, or our other significant
    shareholders or we, sell substantial amounts of our Common Stock
    in the public market, or the perception that such sales may
    occur exists, the market price of our Common Stock could fall.
    Sales of Common Stock by our significant shareholders, including
    sanofi-aventis, also might make it more difficult for us to
    raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in
    the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.


 



    Our
    existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence
    over matters requiring shareholder approval.


 


    Holders of Class A Stock, who are generally the
    shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our
    initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share,
    while holders of Common Stock are entitled to one vote per
    share. As of December 31, 2007, holders of Class A
    Stock held 22.8% of the combined voting power of all of Common
    Stock and Class A Stock then outstanding. These
    shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to
    significantly influence the election of our directors and to
    effect or prevent certain corporate transactions that require
    majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes,
    including mergers and other business combinations. This may
    result in our company taking corporate actions that you may not
    consider to be in your best interest and may affect the price of
    our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2007:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned
    12.6% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming
    conversion of their Class A Stock into Common Stock and the
    exercise of all options held by such persons which are
    exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2007, and
    27.7% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of
    Common Stock and Class A Stock, assuming the exercise of
    all options held by such persons which are exercisable within
    60 days of December 31, 2007; and




 



     
        • 

    
    our seven largest shareholders beneficially owned 54.0% of our
    outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming, in the case of
    Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., our Chief Executive
    Officer, and P. Roy Vagelos, M.D., our Chairman, the
    conversion of their Class A Stock into Common Stock and the
    exercise of all options held by them which are exercisable
    within 60 days of December 31, 2007. In addition,
    these seven shareholders held 58.0% of the combined voting power
    of our outstanding shares of Common Stock and Class A
    Stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our Chief
    Executive Officer and our Chairman which are exercisable within
    60 days of December 31, 2007.





 


    Pursuant to an investor agreement, sanofi-aventis has agreed to
    vote its shares, at sanofi-aventis’ election, either as
    recommended by our board of directors or proportionally with the
    votes cast by our other shareholders, except with respect to
    certain change of control transactions, liquidation or
    dissolution, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 10% of the
    then outstanding shares or voting rights of Common Stock and
    Class A Stock, and new equity compensation plans or
    amendments if not materially consistent with our historical
    equity compensation practices.


 



    The
    anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and
    of New York corporate law and the contractual
    “standstill” provisions in our investor agreement with
    sanofi-aventis, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or
    other “change in control” of us and could adversely
    affect the price of our Common Stock.


 


    Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our
    by-laws and the New York Business Corporation Law contain
    various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or
    preventing a change in control of our company or our management
    that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. Some of
    these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it
    more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors
    and take



    
    25



 




    other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the
    price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for
    shares of our common stock. These provisions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock,
    which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the
    board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with
    rights senior to those of our common shareholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three
    successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors;




 



     
        • 

    
    a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for
    cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty
    percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for
    directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the
    board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors;




 



     
        • 

    
    any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of
    shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to
    such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of
    which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at
    a duly convened meeting;




 



     
        • 

    
    any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual
    meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this
    intention in writing and meet various other
    requirements; and




 



     
        • 

    
    under the New York Business Corporation Law, in addition to
    certain restrictions which may apply to “business
    combinations” involving the Company and an “interested
    shareholder”, a plan of merger or consolidation of the
    Company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all
    outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. See the risk factor
    immediately above captioned “Our existing shareholders
    may be able to exert significant influence over matters
    requiring shareholder approval.”





 


    Until the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or
    earlier termination of our antibody collaboration agreements
    with sanofi-aventis or our aflibercept collaboration with
    sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis will be bound by certain
    “standstill” provisions, which contractually prohibit
    sanofi-aventis from acquiring more than certain specified
    percentages of the Company’s Class A Stock and Common
    Stock (taken together) or otherwise seeking to obtain control of
    the Company.


 


    In addition, we have a Change in Control Severance Plan and our
    chief executive officer has an employment agreement that
    provides severance benefits in the event our officers are
    terminated as a result of a change in control of the Company.
    Many of our stock options issued under our 2000 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan may become fully vested in connection with a
    “change in control” of our company, as defined in the
    plan.






 




    
    



    
    Item 1B