ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
     We
operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and
uncertainties. We caution you to read the following risk factors, which have
affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, operating results,
financial condition, and cash flows. The risks described below include
forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ
substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we
currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Furthermore,
additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this
report and should be considered by our investors.
Risks Related to Our Financial
Results and Need for Additional Financing
We
have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability.
If we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our
operations.
     From
inception on January 8, 1988 through December 31, 2008, we had a cumulative loss
of $875.9 million. If we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a
profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. In the absence
of substantial revenue from the sale of products or other sources, the amount,
timing, nature or source of which cannot be predicted, our losses will continue
as we conduct our research and development activities.
We may
need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and
which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development
programs or commercialization efforts.
     We will
need to expend substantial resources for research and development, including
costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates. We believe our
existing capital resources, including funding we are entitled to receive under
our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet operating needs through at
least 2012; however, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate,
our projected revenue may decrease, or our expenses may increase and that would
lead to our capital being consumed significantly before such time. We may
require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise such
additional funds. If we are able to obtain additional financing through the sale
of equity or convertible debt securities, such sales may be dilutive to our
shareholders. Debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain
assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or
our ability to incur further indebtedness and may contain other terms that are
not favorable to our shareholders. If we are unable to raise sufficient funds to
complete the development of our product candidates, we may face delay, reduction
or elimination of our research and development programs or preclinical or
clinical trials, in which case our business, financial condition or results of
operations may be materially harmed.
The
value of our investment portfolio, which includes cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities, is influenced by varying economic and market conditions.
A decrease in the value of an asset in our investment portfolio or a default by
the issuer may result in our inability to recover the principal we invested
and/or a recognition of a loss charged against income.
     As of
December 31, 2008, cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable
securities totaled $527.5 million and represented 79% of our total assets. We
have invested available cash balances primarily in money market funds and U.S.
Treasury, U.S. government agency, corporate, and asset-backed securities. We
consider assets classified as marketable securities to be “available-for-sale,”
as defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. (SFAS) 115,
Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities. Marketable securities
totaled $278.0 million at December 31, 2008, are carried at fair value, and the
unrealized gains and losses are included in other accumulated comprehensive
income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. If the decline in
the value of a security in our investment portfolio is deemed to be
other-than-temporary, we write down the security to its current fair value and
recognize a loss that is charged against income. For example, during the year
ended December 31, 2008, we recorded charges for other-than-temporary
impairments totaling $2.5 million related to two marketable securities in our
investment portfolio. The current economic environment, the deterioration in the
credit quality of some of the issuers of securities that we hold, and the recent
volatility of securities markets increase the risk that we may not recover the
principal we invested and/or there may be further declines in the market value
of securities in our investment portfolio. As a result, we may incur additional
charges against income in future periods for other-than-temporary impairments or
realized losses upon a security’s sale or maturity, and such amounts may be
material.
13


Risks Related to ARCALYST®
(rilonacept) and the Development of
Our Product Candidates
Successful development of any of our product candidates is highly
uncertain.
     Only a
small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in
commercially successful drugs. Even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and
effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the
necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of
our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the
medical community, and third-party payers and on our partners’ ability to
successfully manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. Our product
candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or
subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than
tablet or capsule delivery. If our products are not successfully commercialized,
we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in
developing such products and our business would be severely harmed.
     We are
studying aflibercept, VEGF Trap-Eye, ARCALYST, and our antibody candidates in a
wide variety of indications. Many of these current trials are exploratory
studies designed to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for
our product candidates. It is likely that our product candidates will not
demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued
development for most of the indications that are being, or are planned to be,
studied. In fact, our product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite
efficacy and safety profile to support the continued development for any of the
indications or uses. 
Clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and
time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. If any of our drug trials
are delayed or yield unfavorable results, we will have to delay or may be unable
to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates.
     We must
conduct extensive testing of our product candidates before we can obtain
regulatory approval to market and sell them. We need to conduct both preclinical
animal testing and human clinical trials. Conducting these trials is a lengthy,
time-consuming, and expensive process. These tests and trials may not achieve
favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the
product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious
or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with
exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining
subjects in the clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product
candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial
monitors and other consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan
or protocol. A clinical trial may fail because it did not include a sufficient
number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical
significance. A clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the
investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to
determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting.

     We will
need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either
conduct new trials, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon the drug
development program. Even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or
clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Many
companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered
significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been
obtained in earlier trials. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety
and effectiveness for the desired indication(s) could harm the development of
our product candidate(s), and our business, financial condition, and results of
operations may be materially harmed.
Serious complications or side effects have occurred, and may continue to
occur, in connection with the use of our approved product and in clinical trials
of some of our product candidates which could cause our regulatory approval to
be revoked or otherwise negatively affected or lead to delay or discontinuation
of development of our product candidates which could severely harm our
business.
     During
the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health,
including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. Often, it
is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied
caused these conditions. Various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been
reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates. It
is possible as we test our drug candidates in larger, longer, and more extensive
clinical programs, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in
earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in
smaller previous trials, will be reported by patients. Many times, side effects
are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large scale, Phase
3 clinical trials or, in some 
14


cases, after they are made available to
patients after approval. If additional clinical experience indicates that any of
our product candidates has many side effects or causes serious or
life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may fail
or be delayed, which would severely harm our business.
     Our
aflibercept (VEGF Trap) is being studied for the potential treatment of certain
types of cancer and our VEGF Trap-Eye candidate is being studied in diseases of
the eye. There are many potential safety concerns associated with significant
blockade of vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, that may limit our
ability to successfully develop aflibercept and VEGF Trap-Eye. These serious and
potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience
of VEGF inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension,
proteinuria, heart attack, and stroke. In addition, patients given infusions of
any protein, including VEGF Trap delivered through intravenous administration,
may develop severe hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions. Other VEGF
blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large scale
trials or after marketing approval and large number of patients were treated.
These and other complications or side effects could harm the development of
aflibercept for the treatment of cancer or VEGF Trap-Eye for the treatment of
diseases of the eye.
     We have
tested ARCALYST in only a small number of patients with CAPS. As more patients
begin to use our product and as we test it in new disease settings, new risks
and side effects associated with ARCALYST may be discovered, and risks
previously viewed as inconsequential could be determined to be significant. Like
cytokine antagonists such as Kineret® (Amgen, Inc.), Enbrel® (Immunex
Corporation), and Remicade® (Centocor,
Inc.), ARCALYST affects the immune defense system of the body by blocking some
of its functions. Therefore, ARCALYST may interfere with the body’s ability to
fight infections. Treatment with Kineret (Amgen), a medication that works
through the inhibition of IL-1, has been associated with an increased risk of
serious infections, and serious, life threatening infections have been reported
in patients taking ARCALYST. These or other complications or side effects could
cause regulatory authorities to revoke approvals of ARCALYST. Alternatively, we
may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the
labeling of our product, or limit or abandon our efforts to develop ARCALYST in
new disease settings. These side effects may also result in a reduction, or even
the elimination, of sales of ARCALYST in approved indications.
ARCALYST® (rilonacept) and our product candidates in development are recombinant
proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of
harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic
protein.
     In
addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by
our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently
causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the
therapeutic protein. The antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize
the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain
a therapeutic effect. In some cases, the antibody can cross react with the
patient’s own proteins, resulting in an “auto-immune” type disease. Whether
antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or
clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so
that there can be no assurance that neutralizing antibodies will not be detected
at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been
completed. Antibodies directed against the receptor domains of rilonacept were
detected in patients with CAPS after treatment with ARCALYST. Nineteen of 55
subjects (35%) who received ARCALYST for at least 6 weeks tested positive for
treatment-emerging binding antibodies on at least one occasion. To date, no side
effects related to antibodies were observed in these subjects and there were no
observed effects on drug efficacy or drug levels. It is possible that as we
continue to test aflibercept and VEGF Trap-Eye with more sensitive assays in
different patient populations and larger clinical trials, we will find that
subjects given aflibercept and VEGF Trap-Eye develop antibodies to these product
candidates, and may also experience side effects related to the antibodies,
which could adversely impact the development of such candidates.
We may
be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is
suitable for clinical or commercial use.
     Changes
in product formulations and manufacturing processes may be required as product
candidates progress in clinical development and are ultimately commercialized.
If we are unable to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing
processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product candidates,
including aflibercept, VEGF Trap-Eye, and our antibody candidates, we may be
unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay
the development of our product candidates. Similarly, if we are unable to supply
sufficient quantities of our product or develop product formulations suitable
for commercial use, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our
product candidates. 
15


Risks Related to Intellectual
Property
If we
cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are
insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive
position will be harmed.
     Our
business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other
information that we protect as trade secrets. We seek to prevent improper
disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. If our
trade secrets are improperly exposed, either by our own employees or our
collaborators, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business.
We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third
parties only to the extent that our rights are covered by valid and enforceable
patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of
biotechnology companies involves complex legal and factual questions and,
therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Our patents may be
challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Patent applications filed outside the
United States may be challenged by third parties who file an opposition. Such
opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the European Union and are
costly to defend. We have patent applications that are being opposed and it is
likely that we will need to defend additional patent applications in the future.
Our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive
advantages against competitors. Furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to
us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely
expensive and time consuming.
We may
be restricted in our development and/or commercialization activities by, and
could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third party
patents or other proprietary rights.
     Our
commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without
infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Other
parties may allege that they have blocking patents to our products in clinical
development, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the
composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or used. Moreover, other
parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made
using our VelocImmune®
technology, either because of the way the
antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary position
covering an antibody or the antibody’s target.
     We are
aware of patents and pending applications owned by Genentech that claim certain
chimeric VEGF receptor compositions. Although we do not believe that aflibercept
or VEGF Trap-Eye infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent
applications, Genentech could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and
assert that its patents are valid and cover aflibercept or VEGF Trap-Eye.
Genentech may be motivated to initiate such a lawsuit at some point in an effort
to impair our ability to develop and sell aflibercept or VEGF Trap-Eye, which
represent potential competitive threats to Genentech’s VEGF-binding products and
product candidates. An adverse determination by a court in any such potential
patent litigation would likely materially harm our business by requiring us to
seek a license, which may not be available, or resulting in our inability to
manufacture, develop and sell aflibercept or VEGF Trap-Eye or in a damage
award.
     We are
aware of patents and pending applications owned by Roche that claim antibodies
to the interleukin-6 receptor and methods of treating rheumatoid arthritis with
such antibodies. We are developing REGN88, an antibody to the interleukin-6
receptor, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Although we do not believe
that REGN88 infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications,
Roche could initiate a lawsuit for patent infringement and assert its patents
are valid and cover REGN88. 
     We are
aware of a U.S. patent jointly owned by Genentech and City of Hope relating to
the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells. We currently produce our
antibody product candidates using recombinant antibodies from host cells and may
choose to produce additional antibody product candidates in this manner. 
Neither ARCALYST® (rilonacept), aflibercept, nor VEGF Trap-Eye are recombinant
antibodies.  If any of our antibody product candidates are produced in a
manner subject to valid claims in the Genentech patent, then we may need to
obtain a license from Genentech, should one be available.  Genentech has
licensed this patent to several different companies under confidential license
agreements.    If we desire a license for any of our antibody
product candidates and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable
terms or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to use Genentech’s
techniques to make recombinant antibodies in or to import them into the United
States.
     Further,
we are aware of a number of other third party patent applications that, if
granted, with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned
activities. We cannot assure you that our products and/or actions in
manufacturing and selling our product candidates will not infringe such
patents.
     Any
patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from
manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug candidates, and a court may find
that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties. In the event
that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our clinical candidates infringes
on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be
prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and
commercialization of our drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. Such a
result may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of
operations. Legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to
defend.
16


     We seek
to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed.
If any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on
commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain any such license
could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our
product candidates, which could severely harm our business.
Regulatory and Litigation
Risks
If we
do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will not be
able to market or sell them.
     We cannot
sell or market products without regulatory approval. Although we obtained
regulatory approval for ARCALYST
for the treatment of CAPS in the United
States, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval of ARCALYST in any other
country or in any other indication. Regulatory agencies outside the United
States may require additional information or data with respect to any future
submission for ARCALYST for the treatment of CAPS. 
     If we do
not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates,
including ARCALYST for the treatment of diseases other than CAPS, the value of
our company and our results of operations will be harmed. In the United States,
we must obtain and maintain approval from the United States Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) for each drug we intend to sell. Obtaining FDA approval is
typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain.
Foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed in their country and
approval in any country is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and
approval is highly uncertain. Except for the FDA approval of ARCALYST for the
treatment of CAPS, none of our product candidates has ever received regulatory
approval to be marketed and sold in the United States or any other country. We
may never receive regulatory approval for any of our product
candidates.
     Before
approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA requires that the facilities
at which the product will be manufactured be in compliance with current good
manufacturing practices, or cGMP requirements. Manufacturing product candidates
in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and
expensive. To be successful, our products must be manufactured for development,
following approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory
requirements, and at competitive costs. If we or any of our product
collaborators or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, or labelers are
unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory
sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending
application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing
approval. As a result, our business, financial condition, and results of
operations may be materially harmed.
     In
addition to the FDA and other regulatory agency regulations in the United
States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing
human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and
commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. The foreign
regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA
approval as well as country specific regulations. Whether or not we obtain FDA
approval for a product in the United States, we must obtain approval by the
comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence
clinical trials or marketing of ARCALYST for the treatment of CAPS or any of our
product candidates in those countries.
If the
testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and
damaging product liability claims. 
     The
testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us
to product liability risk. Any informed consent or waivers obtained from people
who sign up for our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the
cost of litigation. We may be subject to claims by CAPS patients who use
ARCALYST that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug.
Our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may
not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. Moreover,
we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our
insurance on acceptable terms.
If we
market and sell ARCALYST® (rilonacept) in a way that violates federal or state fraud and abuse
laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties.
     In
addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health
care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the
anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, and other state and
federal laws and regulations. Federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit,
among other things, knowingly
17


and willfully offering, paying,
soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for, purchasing,
leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health
care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally
or state financed health care programs.
     Federal
false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to
be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly
making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid.
Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of
alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free
product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal
programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average
wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement
rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, or
off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered
off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid
Rebate program.
     The
majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal
anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services
reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply
regardless of the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may
include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from
reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and
imprisonment.
     Even if
we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations
into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and
generate negative publicity, which would also harm our financial condition.
Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it
is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge
under one or more of such laws.
     In recent
years, several states and localities, including California, the District of
Columbia, Massachusetts, Maine, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, Vermont, and West
Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to
establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the
state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical
trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other
states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for
failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. Nonetheless, if we are
found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement
action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse
publicity.
Our
operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental,
health, and safety laws and regulations. We may incur substantial liability
arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous
materials.
     As a
biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing operations, we are
subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations,
including those governing the use of hazardous materials. Our research and
development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of
chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. The
cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is
substantial. If an accident involving these materials or an environmental
discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or
face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance
coverage.
Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are
likely to continue to increase, our costs. 
     The
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002, has required changes
in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance
practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the NASDAQ
Stock Market have promulgated rules and listing standards covering a variety of
subjects. Compliance with these rules and listing standards has increased our
legal costs, and significantly increased our accounting and auditing costs, and
we expect these costs to continue. These developments may make it more difficult
and more expensive for us to obtain directors’ and officers’ liability
insurance. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to
attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly
independent directors, or qualified executive officers. 
In
future years, if we are unable to conclude that our internal control over
financial reporting is effective, the market value of our Common Stock could be
adversely affected.
     As
directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules
requiring public companies to include a report of management on the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K
that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial 
18


reporting. In addition, the independent
registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must attest
to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm provided us with an
unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, which report is included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. However,
we cannot assure you that management or our independent registered public
accounting firm will be able to provide such an unqualified report as of future
year-ends. In this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of
our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value
of our Common Stock. In addition, if it is determined that deficiencies in the
design or operation of internal controls exist and that they are reasonably
likely to adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize, and report
financial information, we would likely incur additional costs to remediate these
deficiencies and the costs of such remediation could be material.
Changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could
adversely affect our business.
     All
aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing,
marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are
subject to extensive legislation and regulation. Changes in applicable federal
and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on
our business. These include: 

  changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory
  processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product
  candidates; 
  new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions
  related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that
  would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory
  agencies; and 
  changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may
  require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could
  materially increase our costs of doing business. 
     The
enactment in the United States of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003 and possible legislation which could ease the entry of
competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace are examples of changes and
possible changes in laws that could adversely affect our business.
Risks Related to Our Reliance on
Third Parties
If our
antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis is terminated, our business
operations and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize
our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be
materially harmed.
     We rely
heavily on the funding from sanofi-aventis to support our target discovery and
antibody research and development programs. Sanofi-aventis has committed to pay
up to $400 million between 2009 and 2012 to fund our efforts to identify and
validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human
monoclonal antibodies against such targets. In addition, sanofi-aventis funds
almost all of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection
with the clinical development of antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to
co-develop with us. We rely on sanofi-aventis to fund these activities. In
addition, with respect to those antibodies that sanofi-aventis elects to
co-develop with us, such as REGN88, REGN421, and REGN475, we rely on
sanofi-aventis to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with
obtaining regulatory approval, particularly outside the United States. We also
rely on sanofi-aventis to lead the commercialization efforts to support all of
the antibody products that are co-developed by sanofi-aventis and us. If
sanofi-aventis does not elect to co-develop the antibodies that we discover or
opts-out of their development, we would be required to fund and oversee on our
own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing
commercialization efforts to support our antibody products. If sanofi-aventis
terminates the antibody collaboration or fails to comply with its payment
obligations thereunder, our business, financial condition, and results of
operations would be materially harmed. We would be required to either expend
substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research
and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that
might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on
such activities. While we cannot assure you that any of the antibodies from this
collaboration will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if
sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations with respect to antibodies that
it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize
these antibody product candidates will be significantly adversely affected.

19


If our
collaboration with sanofi-aventis for aflibercept (VEGF Trap) is terminated, or
sanofi-aventis materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business
operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop, manufacture, and
commercialize aflibercept in the time expected, or at all, would be materially
harmed.
     We rely
heavily on sanofi-aventis to lead much of the development of aflibercept.
Sanofi-aventis funds all of the development expenses incurred by both companies
in connection with the aflibercept program. If the aflibercept program
continues, we will rely on sanofi-aventis to assist with funding the aflibercept
program, provide commercial manufacturing capacity, enroll and monitor clinical
trials, obtain regulatory approval, particularly outside the United States, and
lead the commercialization of aflibercept. While we cannot assure you that
aflibercept will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if
sanofi-aventis does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all,
our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize aflibercept in cancer
indications will be significantly adversely affected. Sanofi-aventis has the
right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon twelve
months advance notice. If sanofi-aventis were to terminate its collaboration
agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of
our partner, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be
available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in
the development and/or manufacture of aflibercept and result in substantial
additional costs to us. We have limited commercial capabilities and would have
to develop or outsource these capabilities. Termination of the sanofi-aventis
collaboration agreement for aflibercept would create substantial new and
additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of
aflibercept.
If our
collaboration with Bayer HealthCare for VEGF Trap-Eye is terminated, or Bayer
HealthCare materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business
operations and financial condition, and our ability to develop and commercialize
VEGF Trap-Eye in the time expected, or at all, would be materially
harmed.
     We rely
heavily on Bayer HealthCare to assist with the development of VEGF Trap-Eye.
Under our agreement with them, Bayer HealthCare is required to fund
approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in
connection with the global VEGF Trap-Eye development program. If the VEGF
Trap-Eye program continues, we will rely on Bayer HealthCare to assist with
funding the VEGF Trap-Eye development program, lead the development of VEGF
Trap-Eye outside the United States, obtain regulatory approval outside the
United States, and provide all sales, marketing and commercial support for the
product outside the United States. In particular, Bayer HealthCare has
responsibility for selling VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States using its
sales force. While we cannot assure you that VEGF Trap-Eye will ever be
successfully developed and commercialized, if Bayer HealthCare does not perform
its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop,
manufacture, and commercialize VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States will be
significantly adversely affected. Bayer HealthCare has the right to terminate
its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months
advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. If
Bayer HealthCare were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would
not have the resources or skills to replace those of our partner, which could
require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable
terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or
commercialization of VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States and result in
substantial additional costs to us. We have limited commercial capabilities and
would have to develop or outsource these capabilities outside the United States.
Termination of the Bayer HealthCare collaboration agreement would create
substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and
commercialization of VEGF Trap-Eye.
Our
collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their
efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of
ARCALYST® (rilonacept)
and our drug candidates.
     We depend
upon third-party collaborators, including sanofi-aventis, Bayer HealthCare, and
service providers such as clinical research organizations, outside testing
laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers and
product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and development
of our product candidates. If any of our existing collaborators or service
providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its
development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or
at all, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the
manufacture, development, or ultimate commercialization of our product
candidates.
     We rely
on third party service providers to support the distribution of ARCALYST and
many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of
ARCALYST for the treatment of CAPS. We cannot be certain that these third
parties will perform adequately. If these service providers do not perform their
services adequately, our efforts to market and sell ARCALYST for the treatment
of CAPS will not be successful.
20


Risks Related to the Manufacture of
Our Product Candidates
We
have limited manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit our ability to
successfully develop or commercialize our drugs.
     Our
manufacturing facility is likely to be inadequate to produce sufficient
quantities of product for commercial sale. We intend to rely on our corporate
collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce the large
quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products. We
rely entirely on third-party manufacturers for filling and finishing services.
We will have to depend on these manufacturers to deliver material on a timely
basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. If we are unable to supply
sufficient material on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or
difficulties in our relationships with our corporate collaborators or contract
manufacturers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may
be materially harmed.
     We must
expand our own manufacturing capacity to support the planned growth of our
clinical pipeline. Moreover, we may expand our manufacturing capacity to support
commercial production of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or API, for our
product candidates. This will require substantial additional expenditures, and
we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial
personnel to staff our facility. Start-up costs can be large and scale-up
entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing
yields. We may be unable to develop manufacturing facilities that are sufficient
to produce drug material for clinical trials or commercial use. This may delay
our clinical development plans and interfere with our efforts to commercialize
our products. In addition, we may be unable to secure adequate filling and
finishing services to support our products. As a result, our business, financial
condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed.
     We may be
unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies for the manufacture of
ARCALYST® (rilonacept) and our product candidates. In addition, we may face
difficulties in developing or acquiring production technology and managerial
personnel to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at
reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable quality assurance and
environmental regulations and governmental permitting requirements.
If any
of our clinical programs are discontinued, we may face costs related to the
unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities.
     We have
large-scale manufacturing operations in Rensselaer, New York. We use our
facilities to produce bulk product for clinical and preclinical candidates for
ourselves and our collaborations. If our clinical candidates are discontinued,
we will have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and
inefficiencies.
Third-party supply failures or a business interruption at our
manufacturing facility in Rensselaer, New York could adversely affect our
ability to supply our products.
     We
manufacture all of our bulk drug materials for ARCALYST and our product
candidates at our manufacturing facility in Rensselaer, New York. We would be
unable to supply our product requirements if we were to cease production due to
regulatory requirements or action, business interruptions, labor shortages or
disputes, contaminations, or other problems at the facility.
     Certain
raw materials necessary for manufacturing and formulation of ARCALYST and our
product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party
suppliers. In addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling,
finishing, distribution, and other services related to the manufacture of our
products. We would be unable to obtain these raw materials or services for an
indeterminate period of time if any of these third-parties were to cease or
interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or
services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or
action, adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, business
interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. This, in turn, could materially
and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply ARCALYST or our
product candidates for use in clinical trials, which could materially and
adversely affect our business and future prospects.
     Also,
certain of the raw materials required in the manufacturing and the formulation
of our clinical candidates may be derived from biological sources, including
mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. There are certain
European regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. If
we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with European
regulatory requirements, our clinical development activities may be delayed or
interrupted.
21


Risks Related to Commercialization
of Products
If we
are unable to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, or
enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to
successfully market and sell future products.
     We are
marketing and selling ARCALYST for the treatment of CAPS ourselves in the United
States, primarily through third party service providers. We have no sales or
distribution personnel in the United States and have only a small staff with
commercial capabilities. We have no sales, marketing, commercial, or
distribution capabilities outside the United States. If we are unable to obtain
those capabilities, either by developing our own organizations or entering into
agreements with service providers, even if our current or future product
candidates receive marketing approval, we will not be able to successfully sell
those products. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant
revenue, even if our product candidates are approved. We cannot guarantee that
we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or
that we will be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with
third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Under the terms of our
collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we currently rely on sanofi-aventis
for sales, marketing, and distribution of aflibercept in cancer indications,
should it be approved in the future by regulatory authorities for marketing. We
will have to rely on a third party or devote significant resources to develop
our own sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities for our other product
candidates, including VEGF Trap-Eye in the United States, and we may be
unsuccessful in developing our own sales, marketing, and distribution
organization.
There
may be too few patients with CAPS to profitably commercialize
ARCALYST® (rilonacept) in
this indication. 
     Our only
approved product is ARCALYST for the treatment of CAPS, a group of rare,
inherited auto-inflammatory diseases. These rare diseases affect a very small
group of people. The incidence of CAPS has been reported to be approximately 1
in 1,000,000 people in the United States. Although the incidence rate of CAPS in
Europe has not been reported, it is known to be a rare set of diseases. As a
result, there may be too few patients with CAPS to profitably commercialize
ARCALYST in this indication.
Even
if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their commercial success
is highly uncertain because our competitors have received approval for products
with a similar mechanism of action, and competitors may get to the marketplace
with better or lower cost drugs. 
     There is
substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from
pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. Many of our competitors
have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product
development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human
resources than we do. Our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive
position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative
arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even if we achieve
product commercialization, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to
achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for
marketing and sale. 
     Genentech
has an approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin® (beracizumab), on the market
for treating certain cancers and many different pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies are working to develop competing VEGF antagonists, including Novartis,
OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Pfizer. Many of these molecules are farther along
in development than aflibercept and may offer competitive advantages over our
molecule. Each of Pfizer and Onyx Pharmaceuticals, (together with its partner
Bayer HealthCare) has received approval from the FDA to market and sell an oral
medication that targets tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that
fuels the growth of tumors. The marketing approvals for Genentech’s VEGF
antagonist, Avastin, and their extensive, ongoing clinical development plan for
Avastin in other cancer indications, make it more difficult for us to enroll
patients in clinical trials to support aflibercept and to obtain regulatory
approval of aflibercept in these cancer settings. This may delay or impair our
ability to successfully develop and commercialize aflibercept. In addition, even
if aflibercept is ever approved for sale for the treatment of certain cancers,
it will be difficult for our drug to compete against Avastin (Genentech) and the
FDA approved kinase inhibitors, because doctors and patients will have
significant experience using these medicines. In addition, an oral medication
may be considerably less expensive for patients than a biologic medication,
providing a competitive advantage to companies that market such
products.
22


     The
market for eye disease products is also very competitive. Novartis and Genentech
are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a VEGF
antibody fragment, ranibizumab (Lucentis®), for the treatment of
age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD) and other eye indications that was
approved by the FDA in June 2006. Many other companies are working on the
development of product candidates for the potential treatment of wet AMD and DME
that act by blocking VEGF, VEGF receptors, and through the use of small
interfering ribonucleic acids (siRNAs) that modulate gene expression. In
addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label a third-party reformatted version
of Genentech’s approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin®, with success for the
treatment of wet AMD. The National Eye Institute is conducting a Phase 3 trial
comparing Lucentis (Genentech) to Avastin (Genentech) in the treatment of wet
AMD. The marketing approval of Lucentis (Genentech) and the potential off-label
use of Avastin (Genentech) make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in
our clinical trials and successfully develop VEGF Trap-Eye. Even if VEGF
Trap-Eye is ever approved for sale for the treatment of eye diseases, it may be
difficult for our drug to compete against Lucentis (Genentech), because doctors
and patients will have significant experience using this medicine. Moreover, the
relatively low cost of therapy with Avastin
(Genentech) in patients with wet AMD presents
a further competitive challenge in this indication.
     The
availability of highly effective FDA approved TNF-antagonists such as
Enbrel®
(Immunex), Remicade® (Centocor), and Humira® (Abbott Laboratories), and
the IL-1 receptor antagonist Kineret® (Amgen), and other marketed
therapies makes it more difficult to successfully develop and commercialize
ARCALYST. This is one of the reasons we discontinued the development of ARCALYST
in adult rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, even if ARCALYST is ever approved
for sale in indications where TNF-antagonists are approved, it will be difficult
for our drug to compete against these FDA approved TNF-antagonists because
doctors and patients will have significant experience using these effective
medicines. Moreover, in such indications these approved therapeutics may offer
competitive advantages over ARCALYST, such as requiring fewer injections.

     There are
both small molecules and antibodies in development by other companies that are
designed to block the synthesis of interleukin-1 or inhibit the signaling of
interleukin-1. For example, Eli Lilly, Xoma, and Novartis are each developing
antibodies to interleukin-1 and Amgen is developing an antibody to the
interleukin-1 receptor. Novartis has filed applications in the U.S. and Europe
seeking regulatory approval of its IL-1 antibody in CAPS. Novartis is also
developing its IL-1 antibody in gout and other inflammatory diseases. Novartis
has stated that its IL-1 antibody demonstrated long-lasting clinical remission
in patients with CAPS and that its clinical candidate could develop into a major
therapeutic advance in the treatment of CAPS. Novartis’ IL-1 antibody and these
other drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over ARCALYST. The
successful development of these competing molecules could impair our ability to
successfully commercialize ARCALYST. 
     We have
plans to develop ARCALYST for the treatment of certain gout indications.
Currently, inexpensive, oral therapies such as analgesics and other
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are used as the standard of care to treat
the symptoms of these gout diseases. These established, inexpensive, orally
delivered drugs may make it difficult for us to successfully commercialize
ARCALYST in these diseases.
The
successful commercialization of ARCALYST® (rilonacept)
and our product candidates will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement
for use of these products from third-party payers and these payers may not agree
to cover or reimburse for use of our products.
     Our
product candidates, if commercialized, may be significantly more expensive than
traditional drug treatments. For example, we have announced plans to initiate a
Phase 3 program studying the use of ARCALYST for the treatment of certain gout
indications. Patients suffering from these gout indications are currently
treated with inexpensive therapies, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs. These existing treatment options are likely to be considerably less
expensive and may be preferable to a biologic medication for some patients. Our
future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if United States
and foreign governmental, private third-party insurers and payers, and other
third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, do not agree to defray or
reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. If these entities refuse to
provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an
insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly
for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. Many
third-party payers cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not
preferred by such payer more expensive for patients, and require prior
authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a
particular drug. Payers may especially impose these obstacles to coverage on
higher-priced drugs, as our product candidates are likely to be. 
23


     We market
and sell ARCALYST® (rilonacept) in the United States for the treatment of a
group of rare genetic disorders called CAPS. There may be too few patients with
CAPS to profitably commercialize ARCALYST. Physicians may not prescribe
ARCALYST, and CAPS patients may not be able to afford ARCALYST, if third party
payers do not agree to reimburse the cost of ARCALYST therapy and this would
adversely affect our ability to commercialize ARCALYST profitably. 
     In
addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of reimbursement for
our products may also reduce our profitability. In the United States, there have
been, and we expect will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and
reduce healthcare costs. Government and other third-party payers are challenging
the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and
attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription
drugs.
     Since
ARCALYST and our product candidates in clinical development, will likely be too
expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if our
products are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party
payers our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates may be
adversely impacted. Any limitation on the use of our products or any decrease in
the price of our products will have a material adverse effect on our ability to
achieve profitability.
     In
certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement of
prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we may be unable to
negotiate coverage, pricing, and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to
us. In some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved
before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary
widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options
for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which
their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the
prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a
specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of
direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the
medicinal product on the market. Our results of operations may suffer if we are
unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and
reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited.
Risk Related to
Employees
We are
dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in
our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our
business will be harmed.
     We are
highly dependent on certain of our executive officers. If we are not able to
retain any of these persons or our Chairman, our business may suffer. In
particular, we depend on the services of P. Roy Vagelos, M.D., the Chairman of
our board of directors, Leonard Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., our President and Chief
Executive Officer, George D. Yancopoulos, M.D., Ph.D., our Executive Vice
President, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Regeneron Research
Laboratories, and Neil Stahl, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President, Research and
Development Sciences. There is intense competition in the biotechnology industry
for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development,
manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. We may not be able to continue to
attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our
business.
Our
move to new facilities in mid-2009 could lead to disruptions in our business
operations.
     We plan
to move most of our laboratories and headquarters to new facilities in mid-2009.
There is a risk that this physical move could lead to damage to equipment or
other business assets or the loss of important data, or that we could encounter
problems with our new facilities, which could disrupt or delay our business
operations.
Risks Related to Our Common
Stock
Our
stock price is extremely volatile.
     There has
been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market
prices of biotechnology companies’ securities. Various factors and events may
have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock. These factors
include, by way of example:
24



  progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical
  trials; 
  announcement of technological innovations or
  product candidates by us or competitors; 
  fluctuations in our operating
  results; 
  third party claims that our products or
  technologies infringe their party patents; 
  public concern as to the safety or effectiveness
  of ARCALYST® (rilonacept) or any of our product candidates; 
  developments in our relationship with
  collaborative partners; 
  developments in the biotechnology industry or in
  government regulation of healthcare; 
  large sales of our common stock by our executive
  officers, directors, or significant shareholders; 
  arrivals and departures of key personnel;
  and 
  general market conditions. 
     The
trading price of our Common Stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to
wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or
attempted sale of a large amount of our Common Stock in the market. Broad market
fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our Common
Stock.
Future
sales of our Common Stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our
stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share
offerings.
     A small
number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our Common
Stock. As of December 31, 2008, our five largest shareholders plus Leonard S.
Schleifer, M.D. Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 55.9% of
our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming, in the case of our Chief
Executive Officer, the conversion of his Class A Stock into Common Stock and the
exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of
December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, sanofi-aventis beneficially owned
14,799,552 shares of Common Stock, representing approximately 19.1% the shares
of Common Stock then outstanding. Under our investor agreement with
sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis may not sell these shares until December 20, 2012
except under limited circumstances and subject to earlier termination of these
restrictions upon the occurrence of certain events. Notwithstanding these
restrictions, if sanofi-aventis, or our other significant shareholders or we,
sell substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public market, or the
perception that such sales may occur exists, the market price of our Common
Stock could fall. Sales of Common Stock by our significant shareholders,
including sanofi-aventis, also might make it more difficult for us to raise
funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and
price that we deem appropriate.
Our
existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters
requiring shareholder approval.
     Holders
of Class A Stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock
from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share,
while holders of Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share. As of December
31, 2008, holders of Class A Stock held 22.5% of the combined voting power of
all shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock then outstanding, plus any voting
power associated with any shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by such
Class A Stock holders. These shareholders, if acting together, would be in a
position to significantly influence the election of our directors and to effect
or prevent certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority
approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business
combinations. This may result in us taking corporate actions that you may not
consider to be in your best interest and may affect the price of our Common
Stock. As of December 31, 2008:

  our current executive officers and directors
  beneficially owned 13.3% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming conversion of their Class A Stock into
  Common Stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of December 31,
  2008, and 28.0% of the combined voting power of
  our outstanding shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock, assuming the
  exercise of all options held by such persons
  which are exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2008; and
25



  our five largest shareholders plus Leonard S.
  Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 55.9% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock,
  assuming, in the case of our Chief Executive
  Officer, the conversion of his Class A Stock into Common Stock and the
  exercise of all options held by him which are
  exercisable within 60 days of December 31, 2008. In addition, these
  six shareholders held 59.6% of the combined voting
  power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our
  Chief Executive Officer which are exercisable
  within 60 days of December 31, 2008. 
     Pursuant to an investor agreement,
sanofi-aventis has agreed to vote its shares, at sanofi-aventis’ election,
either as recommended by our board of directors or proportionally with the votes
cast by our other shareholders, except with respect to certain change of control
transactions, liquidation or dissolution, stock issuances equal to or exceeding
10% of the then outstanding shares or voting rights of Common Stock and Class A
Stock, and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially
consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. 
The
anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of New York
corporate law and the contractual “standstill” provisions in our investor
agreement with sanofi-aventis, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or
other “change in control” of us and could adversely affect the price of our
Common Stock.
     Our
amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the New York
Business Corporation Law contain various provisions that could have the effect
of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management
that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. Some of these provisions
could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other
shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These
provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in
the future for shares of our Common Stock. These provisions include:

  authorization to issue “blank check” preferred
  stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder
  approval, with rights senior to those of our common shareholders; 
  a staggered board of directors, so that it would
  take three successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors; 
  a requirement that removal of directors may only
  be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares
  entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled
  only by the remaining directors; 
  any action required or permitted to be taken at
  any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders
  consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened
  meeting; 
  any shareholder seeking to bring business before
  an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other
  requirements; and 
  under the New York Business Corporation Law, in
  addition to certain restrictions which may apply to “business combinations” involving the Company and an “interested
  shareholder”, a plan of merger or consolidation
  of the Company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding
  shares entitled to vote thereon. See the risk
  factor immediately above captioned “Our
  existing shareholders may be able to
  exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder
  approval.”
     Until the
later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our
antibody collaboration agreements with sanofi-aventis or our aflibercept
collaboration with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis will be bound by certain
“standstill” provisions, which contractually prohibit sanofi-aventis from
acquiring more than certain specified percentages of our Class A Stock and
Common Stock (taken together) or otherwise seeking to obtain control of the
Company. 
     In
addition, we have a Change in Control Severance Plan and our Chief Executive
Officer has an employment agreement that provides severance benefits in the
event our officers are terminated as a result of a change in control of the
Company. Many of our stock options issued under our Amended and Restated 2000
Long-Term Incentive Plan may become fully vested in connection with a “change in
control” of our company, as defined in the plan.
26


ITEM 1B