Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We operate in an environment that involves a number of
    significant risks and uncertainties. We caution you to read the
    following risk factors, which have affected,
    and/or in
    the future could affect, our business, operating results,
    financial condition, and cash flows. The risks described below
    include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our
    actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in
    these forward-looking statements. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently
    deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.
    Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described
    under other captions in this report and should be considered by
    our investors.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Additional
    Financing


 



    We
    have had a history of operating losses and we may never achieve
    profitability. If we continue to incur operating losses, we may
    be unable to continue our operations.


 


    From inception on January 8, 1988 through December 31,
    2005, we had a cumulative loss of $585.3 million. If we
    continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a
    profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations.
    We have no products that are available for sale and do not know
    when we will have products available for sale, if ever. In the
    absence of revenue from the sale of products or other sources,
    the amount, timing, nature or source of which cannot be
    predicted, our losses will continue as we conduct our research
    and development activities. We currently receive contract
    manufacturing revenue from our agreement with Merck and, until
    June 30, 2005, we received contract research and
    development revenue from our agreement with The
    Procter & Gamble Company. Our agreement with
    Procter & Gamble expired in June 2005 and our agreement
    with Merck will expire before the end of 2006. The expiration of
    these agreements results in a significant loss of revenue to the
    Company.


 



    We
    will need additional funding in the future, which may not be
    available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or
    eliminate our product development programs or commercialization
    efforts.


 


    We will need to expend substantial resources for research and
    development, including costs associated with clinical testing of
    our product candidates. We believe our existing capital
    resources will enable us to meet operating needs through at
    least mid-2008; however, our projected revenue may decrease or
    our expenses may increase and that would lead to our capital
    being consumed significantly before such time. We will likely
    require additional financing in the future and we may not be
    able to raise such additional funds. If we are able to obtain
    additional financing through the sale of equity or convertible
    debt securities, such sales may be dilutive to our shareholders.
    Debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain
    assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business
    activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may
    contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders.
    If we are unable to raise sufficient funds to complete the
    development of our product candidates, we may face delay,
    reduction or elimination of our research and development
    programs or preclinical or clinical trials, in which case our
    business, financial condition or results of operations may be
    materially harmed.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    We
    have a significant amount of debt and may have insufficient cash
    to satisfy our debt service and repayment obligations. In
    addition, the amount of our debt could impede our operations and
    flexibility.


 


    We have a significant amount of convertible debt and semi-annual
    interest payment obligations. This debt, unless converted to
    shares of our common stock, will mature in October 2008. We may
    be unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain
    funds necessary to make required payments on our debt. Even if
    we are able to meet our debt service obligations, the amount of
    debt we already have could hurt our ability to obtain any
    necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital
    expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes. In
    addition, our debt obligations could require us to use a
    substantial portion of cash to pay principal and interest on our
    debt, instead of applying those funds to other purposes, such as
    research and development, working capital, and capital
    expenditures.


 



    We
    have adopted, effective January 1, 2005, the fair market
    value based method of accounting for stock-based employee
    compensation. This will materially increase operating expenses
    in our Statement of Operations, primarily due to non-cash
    compensation costs related to stock options.


 


    We have adopted, effective January 1, 2005, the fair value
    based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation
    under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. (SFAS) 123, Accounting for Stock Based
    Compensation, using the modified prospective method as
    described in SFAS 148, Accounting for Stock Based
    Compensation — Transition and Disclosure. As
    a result, effective January 1, 2005, we have been
    recognizing expense in an amount equal to the fair value of
    share-based payments (including stock option awards) on their
    date of grant over the vesting period of the awards. In 2005,
    non-cash stock-based employee compensation expense of
    $19.9 million related to stock options awards was
    recognized in operating expenses in our Statement of Operations,
    which increased our basic and diluted net loss per share. Also,
    if we had adopted SFAS 123 effective January 1, 2004,
    our net income for the full year 2004 would have decreased by
    approximately $33.6 million and our basic and diluted net
    income per share in 2004 would have been $0.15 per share
    instead of $0.75 per share (basic) and $0.74 per share
    (diluted).


 


    In addition, in December 2004, the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board issued SFAS 123R, Share-Based
    Payment, which is a revision of SFAS 123 and supersedes
    Accounting Principles Board No. 25, Accounting for Stock
    Issued to Employees. SFAS 123R requires the recognition
    of compensation expense in an amount equal to the fair value of
    share-based payments (including stock options) issued to
    employees. We are required to adopt SFAS 123R effective for
    the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2006. The impact of
    adopting SFAS 123R has not yet been quantified.


 


    The negative impact on our income (loss) as a result of adopting
    SFAS 123 as of January 1, 2005, and subsequently
    adopting SFAS 123R commencing January 1, 2006, may
    negatively affect our stock price.


 



    Risks
    Related to Development of Our Product Candidates


 



    Successful
    development of any of our product candidates is highly
    uncertain.


 


    Only a small minority of all research and development programs
    ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. We have
    never developed a drug that has been approved for marketing and
    sale, and we may never succeed in developing an approved drug.
    Even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and effectiveness of
    any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the
    necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial
    success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their
    acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party
    payers and on our partners’ ability to successfully
    manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. Our
    product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion
    or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are
    generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule
    delivery. If our products are not successfully commercialized,
    we will not be able to recover the significant investment we
    have made in developing such products and our business would be
    severely harmed.


 


    We intend to study our lead product candidates, the VEGF Trap,
    VEGF Trap-Eye, and IL-1 Trap, in a wide variety of indications.
    We intend to study the VEGF Trap in a variety of cancer
    settings, the VEGF Trap-Eye in different eye diseases and
    ophthalmologic indications, and the IL-1 Trap in a variety of
    systemic inflammatory



    
    11



Table of Contents




    disorders. Most of these current trials are exploratory studies
    designed to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best
    suited for our product candidates. It is likely that our product
    candidates will not demonstrate the requisite efficacy
    and/or
    safety profile to support continued development for most of the
    indications that are to be studied. In fact, our product
    candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and safety
    profile to support the continued development for any of the
    indications or uses.


 



    Clinical
    trials required for our product candidates are expensive and
    time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. If any of
    our drug trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we
    will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory
    approval for our product candidates.


 


    We must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates
    before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell
    them. We need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and
    human clinical trials. Conducting these trials is a lengthy,
    time-consuming, and expensive process. These tests and trials
    may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including,
    among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate
    safety or efficacy, the development of serious or
    life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or
    connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in
    enrolling and maintaining subjects in the clinical trial, lack
    of sufficient supplies of the product candidate, and the failure
    of clinical investigators, trial monitors and other consultants,
    or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan or protocol. A
    clinical trial may fail because it did not include a sufficient
    number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or
    reach statistical significance. A clinical trial may also fail
    because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the
    trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal
    effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. For
    example, we are studying higher doses of the IL-1 Trap in
    different diseases after a phase 2 trial using lower doses
    of the IL-1 Trap in subjects with rheumatoid arthritis failed to
    achieve its primary endpoint.


 


    We will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test
    favorably and either conduct new trials, which are expensive and
    time consuming, or abandon the drug development program. Even if
    we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical trials,
    we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Many
    companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including us, have
    suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after
    promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. The
    failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and
    effectiveness for the desired indication(s) could harm the
    development of the product candidate(s), and our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations may be materially
    harmed.


 



    The
    development of serious or life-threatening side effects with any
    of our product candidates would lead to delay or discontinuation
    of development, which could severely harm our
    business.


 


    During the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes
    in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts,
    to their study doctor. Often, it is not possible to determine
    whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these
    conditions. Various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have
    been reported from
    time-to-time
    during clinical trials of our product candidates. Although our
    current drug candidates appeared to be generally well tolerated
    in clinical trials conducted to date, it is possible as we test
    any of them in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical
    programs, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were
    observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not
    occur or went undetected in smaller previous trials, will be
    reported by patients. Many times, side effects are only
    detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large
    scale, phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after
    they are made available to patients after approval. If
    additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product
    candidates has many side effects or causes serious or
    life-threatening side effects, the development of the product
    candidate may fail or be delayed, which would severely harm our
    business.


 


    Our VEGF Trap is being studied for the potential treatment of
    certain types of cancer and our VEGF Trap-Eye candidate is being
    studied in diseases of the eye. There are many potential safety
    concerns associated with significant blockade of vascular
    endothelial growth factor, or VEGF. These risks, based on the
    clinical and preclinical experience of systemically delivered
    VEGF inhibitors, including the systemic delivery of the VEGF
    Trap, include bleeding, hypertension, and proteinuria. These
    serious side effects and other serious side effects have been
    reported in our systemic VEGF Trap studies in cancer and
    diseases of the eye. In addition, patients given infusions of
    any protein, including the VEGF Trap delivered through
    intravenous administration, may develop severe hypersensitivity
    reactions, referred to as infusion reactions. These and other
    complications or side effects



    
    12



Table of Contents




    could harm the development of the VEGF Trap for the treatment of
    cancer or the VEGF Trap-Eye for the treatment of diseases of the
    eye.


 


    Although the IL-1 Trap was generally well tolerated and was not
    associated with any drug-related serious adverse events in the
    phase 2 rheumatoid arthritis study completed in 2003,
    safety or tolerability concerns may arise as we test higher
    doses of the IL-1 Trap in patients with other inflammatory
    diseases and disorders. Like
    TNF-antagonists
    such as
    Enbrel®(Amgen)
    and
    Remicade®
    (Centocor), the IL-1 Trap affects the immune defense system of
    the body by blocking some of its functions. Therefore, there may
    be an increased risk for infections to develop in patients
    treated with the IL-1 Trap. In addition, patients given
    infusions of the IL-1 Trap have developed hypersensitivity
    reactions, referred to as infusion reactions. These and other
    complications or side effects could harm the development of the
    IL-1 Trap.


 



    Our
    product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that
    could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of
    harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic
    protein.


 


    In addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and
    regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the
    administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an
    immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against
    the therapeutic protein. The antibodies can have no effect or
    can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or
    require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic
    effect. In some cases, the antibody can cross react with the
    patient’s own proteins, resulting in an
    “auto-immune” type disease. Whether antibodies will be
    created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical
    experiments, and their appearance is often delayed, so that
    there can be no assurance that neutralizing antibodies will not
    be created at a later date — in some cases even
    after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. Subjects who
    received the IL-1 Trap in clinical trials have developed
    antibodies. It is possible that as we test the VEGF Trap with
    more sensitive assays in different patient populations and
    larger clinical trials, we will find that subjects given the
    VEGF Trap develop antibodies to the product candidate.


 



    We may
    be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in
    a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial
    use.


 


    Changes in product formulations and manufacturing processes may
    be required as product candidates progress in clinical
    development and are ultimately commercialized. If we are unable
    to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing
    processes to support large scale clinical testing of our product
    candidates, including the VEGF Trap, VEGF Trap-Eye, IL-1 Trap,
    and IL-4/13 Trap, we may be unable to supply necessary materials
    for our clinical trials, which would delay the development of
    our product candidates. Similarly, if we are unable to supply
    sufficient quantities of our product or develop product
    formulations suitable for commercial use, we will not be able to
    successfully commercialize our product candidates.


 



    Risks
    Related to Intellectual Property


 



    If we
    cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our
    patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our
    business and competitive position will be harmed.


 


    Our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology
    and other information that we protect as trade secrets. We seek
    to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through
    confidentiality agreements. If our trade secrets are improperly
    exposed, either by our own employees or our collaborators, it
    would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. We
    will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized
    use by third parties only to the extent that our rights are
    covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively
    maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of
    biotechnology companies involves complex legal and factual
    questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted
    with certainty. Our patents may be challenged, invalidated, or
    circumvented. Patent applications filed outside the United
    States may be challenged by third parties who file an
    opposition. Such opposition proceedings are increasingly common
    in the European Union and are costly to defend. We have patent
    applications that are being opposed and it is likely that we
    will need to defend additional patent applications in the
    future. Our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary
    position or



    
    13



Table of Contents




    competitive advantages against competitors. Furthermore, even if
    the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our
    intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time
    consuming.


 



    We may
    be restricted in our development
    and/or
    commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage
    awards if we are found to have infringed, third party patents or
    other proprietary rights.


 


    Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to
    operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary
    rights of third parties. Other parties may allege that they have
    blocking patents to our products in clinical development, either
    because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition
    of a product or the way it is manufactured or used.


 


    We are aware of patents and pending applications owned by
    Genentech that claim certain chimeric VEGF receptor
    compositions. Although we do not believe that the VEGF Trap or
    VEGF Trap-Eye infringes any valid claim in these patents or
    patent applications, Genentech could initiate a lawsuit for
    patent infringement and assert its patents are valid and cover
    the VEGF Trap or VEGF Trap-Eye. Genentech may be motivated to
    initiate such a lawsuit at some point in an effort to impair our
    ability to develop and sell the VEGF Trap or VEGF Trap-Eye,
    which represents a potential competitive threat to
    Genentech’s VEGF-binding products and product candidates.
    An adverse determination by a court in any such potential patent
    litigation would likely materially harm our business by
    requiring us to seek a license, which may not be available, or
    resulting in our inability to manufacture, develop and sell the
    VEGF Trap or VEGF Trap-Eye or in a damage award.


 


    We are aware of certain United States and foreign patents
    relating to particular IL-4 and IL-13 receptors. Our IL-4/13
    Trap includes portions of the IL-4 and IL-13 receptors. In
    addition, we are aware of a broad patent held by Genentech
    relating to proteins fused to certain immunoglobulin domains.
    Our Trap product candidates include proteins fused to
    immunoglobulin domains. Although we do not believe that we are
    infringing valid and enforceable third party patents, the
    holders of these patents may sue us for infringement and a court
    may find that we are infringing one or more validly issued
    patents, which may materially harm our business.


 


    Any patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent
    us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our drug
    candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly
    issued patents of third parties. In the event that the
    manufacture, use, or sale of any of our clinical candidates
    infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of
    third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product
    development, manufacturing, and commercialization of our drugs
    and may be required to pay costly damages. Such a result may
    materially harm our business, financial condition, and results
    of operations. Legal disputes are likely to be costly and time
    consuming to defend.


 


    We seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment,
    such licenses are needed. If any licenses are required, we may
    not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable
    terms, if at all. The failure to obtain any such license could
    prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of
    our product candidates, which could severely harm our business.


 



    Regulatory
    and Litigation Risks


 



    If we
    do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we
    will not be able to market or sell them.


 


    We cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval.
    If we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our
    product candidates, the value of our company and our results of
    operations will be harmed. In the United States, we must obtain
    and maintain approval from the United States Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA) for each drug we intend to sell. Obtaining
    FDA approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and
    approval is highly uncertain. Foreign governments also regulate
    drugs distributed in their country and approval in any country
    is likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is
    highly uncertain. None of our product candidates has ever
    received regulatory approval to be marketed and sold in the
    United States or any other country. We may never receive
    regulatory approval for any of our product candidates.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    If the
    testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject
    to costly and damaging product liability claims. We could also
    face costly and damaging claims arising from employment law,
    securities law, environmental law, or other applicable laws
    governing our operations.


 


    The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use
    in people expose us to product liability risk. Any informed
    consent or waivers obtained from people who sign up for our
    clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of
    litigation. Our product liability insurance may not cover all
    potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability
    arising from any such litigation. Moreover, we may not have
    access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our
    insurance on acceptable terms.


 



    Our
    operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to
    environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. We may
    incur substantial liability arising from our activities
    involving the use of hazardous materials.


 


    As a biopharmaceutical company with significant manufacturing
    operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health,
    and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the
    use of hazardous materials. Our research and development and
    manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of
    chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds, and other hazardous
    materials. The cost of compliance with environmental, health,
    and safety regulations is substantial. If an accident involving
    these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we
    could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face
    regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or
    insurance coverage.


 



    Changes
    in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are
    likely to continue to increase, our costs.


 


    The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002,
    has required changes in some of our corporate governance,
    securities disclosure, and compliance practices. In response to
    the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock
    Market have promulgated new rules and listing standards covering
    a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules and
    listing standards has increased our legal costs, and
    significantly increased our accounting and auditing costs, and
    we expect these costs to continue. These developments may make
    it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain
    directors’ and officers’ liability insurance.
    Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us
    to attract and retain qualified members of our board of
    directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified
    executive officers.


 



    In
    future years, if we or our independent registered public
    accounting firm are unable to conclude that our internal control
    over financial reporting is effective, the market value of our
    common stock could be adversely affected.


 


    As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to
    include a report of management on the Company’s internal
    control over financial reporting in their annual reports on
    Form 10-K
    that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness
    of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition,
    the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our
    financial statements must attest to and report on
    management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our
    internal control over financial reporting. Our independent
    registered public accounting firm provided us with an
    unqualified report as to our assessment and the effectiveness of
    our internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2005, which report is included in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K
    for the year ended December 31, 2005. However, we cannot
    assure you that management or our independent registered public
    accounting firm will be able to provide such an assessment or
    unqualified report as of future year-ends. In this event,
    investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our
    financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the
    market value of our common stock.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Risks
    Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties


 



    If our
    collaboration with sanofi-aventis for the VEGF Trap is
    terminated, our business operations and our ability to develop,
    manufacture, and commercialize the VEGF Trap in the time
    expected, or at all, would be harmed.


 


    We rely heavily on sanofi-aventis to assist with the development
    of the VEGF Trap oncology program. Sanofi-aventis funds all of
    the development expenses incurred by both companies in
    connection with the VEGF Trap oncology program. If the VEGF Trap
    oncology program continues, we will rely on sanofi-aventis to
    assist with funding the VEGF Trap program, provide commercial
    manufacturing capacity, enroll and monitor clinical trials,
    obtain regulatory approval, particularly outside the United
    States, and provide sales and marketing support. While we cannot
    assure you that the VEGF Trap will ever be successfully
    developed and commercialized, if sanofi-aventis does not perform
    its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to
    develop, manufacture, and commercialize the VEGF Trap in cancer
    indications will be significantly adversely affected.
    Sanofi-aventis has the right to terminate its collaboration
    agreement with us at any time upon twelve months advance notice.
    If sanofi-aventis were to terminate its collaboration agreement
    with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace
    those of our partner, which could cause significant delays in
    the development
    and/or
    manufacture of the VEGF Trap and result in substantial
    additional costs to us. We have no sales, marketing, or
    distribution capabilities and would have to develop or outsource
    these capabilities. Termination of the sanofi-aventis
    collaboration agreement would create substantial new and
    additional risks to the successful development of the VEGF Trap
    oncology program.


 



    Our
    collaborators and service providers may fail to perform
    adequately in their efforts to support the development,
    manufacture, and commercialization of our drug
    candidates.


 


    We depend upon third-party collaborators, including
    sanofi-aventis and service providers such as clinical research
    organizations, outside testing laboratories, clinical
    investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers and product
    packagers and labelers, to assist us in the development of our
    product candidates. If any of our existing collaborators or
    service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us
    or does not perform its development or manufacturing services
    under an agreement in a timely manner or at all, we could
    experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the
    development or ultimate commercialization of our product
    candidates.


 



    Risks
    Related to the Manufacture of Our Product Candidates


 



    We
    have limited manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit our
    ability to successfully develop or commercialize our
    drugs.


 


    Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA
    requires that the facilities at which the product will be
    manufactured be in compliance with current good manufacturing
    practices, or cGMP requirements. Manufacturing product
    candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is
    complex, time-consuming, and expensive. To be successful, our
    products must be manufactured for development, following
    approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with
    regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. If we or any
    of our product collaborators or third-party manufacturers,
    product packagers, or labelers are unable to maintain regulatory
    compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory sanctions, including,
    among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for
    a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing
    approval. As a result, our business, financial condition, and
    results of operations may be materially harmed.


 


    Our manufacturing facility is likely to be inadequate to produce
    sufficient quantities of product for commercial sale. We intend
    to rely on our corporate collaborators, as well as contract
    manufacturers, to produce the large quantities of drug material
    needed for commercialization of our products. We rely entirely
    on third-party manufacturers for filling and finishing services.
    We will have to depend on these manufacturers to deliver
    material on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory
    requirements. If we are unable to supply sufficient material on
    acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or
    difficulties in our relationships with our corporate
    collaborators or contract manufacturers, our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed.



    
    16



Table of Contents




    We may expand our own manufacturing capacity to support
    commercial production of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or
    API, for our product candidates. This will require substantial
    additional funds, and we will need to hire and train significant
    numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our
    facility.
    Start-up
    costs can be large and
    scale-up
    entails significant risks related to process development and
    manufacturing yields. We may be unable to develop manufacturing
    facilities that are sufficient to produce drug material for
    clinical trials or commercial use. In addition, we may be unable
    to secure adequate filling and finishing services to support our
    products. As a result, our business, financial condition, and
    results of operations may be materially harmed.


 


    We may be unable to obtain key raw materials and supplies for
    the manufacture of our product candidates. In addition, we may
    face difficulties in developing or acquiring production
    technology and managerial personnel to manufacture sufficient
    quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in
    compliance with applicable quality assurance and environmental
    regulations and governmental permitting requirements.


 



    If any
    of our clinical programs are discontinued, we may face costs
    related to the unused capacity at our manufacturing
    facilities.


 


    We have large-scale manufacturing operations in Rensselaer, New
    York. Under a long-term manufacturing agreement with Merck,
    which expires in October 2006, we produce an intermediate for a
    Merck pediatric vaccine at our facility in Rensselaer, New York.
    We also use our facilities to produce API for our own clinical
    and preclinical candidates. When we no longer use our facilities
    to manufacture the Merck intermediate or if clinical candidates
    are discontinued, we will have to absorb overhead costs and
    inefficiencies.


 



    Certain
    of our raw materials are single-sourced from third parties;
    third-party supply failures could adversely affect our ability
    to supply our products.


 


    Certain raw materials necessary for manufacturing and
    formulation of our product candidates are provided by
    single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. We would be
    unable to obtain these raw materials for an indeterminate period
    of time if these third-party single-source suppliers were to
    cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these
    materials or products to us for any reason, including due to
    regulatory requirements or action, due to adverse financial
    developments at or affecting the supplier, or due to labor
    shortages or disputes. This, in turn, could materially and
    adversely affect our ability to manufacture our product
    candidates for use in clinical trials, which could materially
    and adversely affect our business and future prospects.


 


    Also, certain of the raw materials required in the manufacturing
    and the formulation of our clinical candidates may be derived
    from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine
    serum, and human serum albumin. There are certain European
    regulatory restrictions on using these biological source
    materials. If we are required to substitute for these sources to
    comply with European regulatory requirements, our clinical
    development activities may be delayed or interrupted.


 



    Risks
    Related to Commercialization of Products


 



    If we
    are unable to establish sales, marketing, and distribution
    capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties to do
    so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future
    products.


 


    We have no sales or distribution personnel or capabilities and
    have only a small staff with marketing capabilities. If we are
    unable to obtain those capabilities, either by developing our
    own organizations or entering into agreements with service
    providers, we will not be able to successfully sell any products
    that we may obtain regulatory approval for and bring to market
    in the future. In that event, we will not be able to generate
    significant revenue, even if our product candidates are
    approved. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the
    qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or that we will
    be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with
    third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Under the
    terms of our collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we
    currently rely on sanofi-aventis for sales, marketing, and
    distribution of the VEGF Trap in cancer indications, should it
    be approved in the future by regulatory authorities for
    marketing. We will have to rely on a third party or devote
    significant resources to develop our own sales, marketing, and
    distribution capabilities for our other product candidates,
    including the VEGF Trap-Eye, and we may be unsuccessful in
    developing our own sales, marketing, and distribution
    organization.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    Even
    if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their
    commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors
    may get to the marketplace before we do with better or lower
    cost drugs or the market for our product candidates may be too
    small to support commercialization or sufficient
    profitability.


 


    There is substantial competition in the biotechnology and
    pharmaceutical industries from pharmaceutical, biotechnology,
    and chemical companies. Many of our competitors have
    substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product
    development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial,
    marketing, and human resources than we do. Our smaller
    competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they
    acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative
    arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even
    if we achieve product commercialization, our competitors have
    achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization
    before our products are approved for marketing and sale.


 


    Genentech has an approved VEGF antagonist,
    Avastin®(Genentech),
    on the market for treating certain cancers and many different
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to
    develop competing VEGF antagonists, including Novartis, Eyetech
    Pharmaceuticals, and Pfizer. Many of these molecules are farther
    along in development than the VEGF Trap and may offer
    competitive advantages over our molecule. Novartis has an
    ongoing phase 3 clinical development program evaluating an
    orally delivered VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor in different
    cancer settings. Onyx Pharmaceuticals and Bayer have received
    approval from the FDA to market and sell the first oral
    medication that targets tumor cell growth and new vasculature
    formation that fuels the growth of tumors. The marketing
    approvals for Genentech’s VEGF antagonist, Avastin, and
    their extensive, ongoing clinical development plan for Avastin
    in other cancer indications, may make it more difficult for us
    to enroll patients in clinical trials to support the VEGF Trap
    and to obtain regulatory approval of the VEGF Trap in these
    cancer settings. This may delay or impair our ability to
    successfully develop and commercialize the VEGF Trap. In
    addition, even if the VEGF Trap is ever approved for sale for
    the treatment of certain cancers, it will be difficult for our
    drug to compete against Avastin and the Onyx/Bayer kinase
    inhibitor, because doctors and patients will have significant
    experience using these medicines. In addition, an oral
    medication may be considerably less expensive for patients than
    a biologic medication, providing a competitive advantage to
    companies that market such products.


 


    The market for eye diseases is also very competitive. Eyetech
    Pharmaceuticals and Pfizer are marketing an approved VEGF
    inhibitor for age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD).
    Novartis and Genentech are collaborating on the development of a
    VEGF antibody fragment for the treatment of wet AMD that is in
    phase 3 development. In December 2005, Genentech announced
    that it filed an application with the FDA to market and sell
    this VEGF inhibitor in patients with wet AMD. In addition, it
    has been reported that ophthalmologists are using a third-party
    reformulated version of Genentech’s approved VEGF
    antagonist, Avastin with success for the treatment of wet AMD.
    The marketing approval of the Eyetech/Pfizer VEGF inhibitor and
    the potential off-label use of Avastin and approval of the
    Novartis/Genentech VEGF antibody fragment make it more difficult
    for us to successfully develop the VEGF Trap-Eye. Even if the
    VEGF Trap-Eye is ever approved for sale for the treatment of eye
    diseases, it will be difficult for our drug to compete against
    the Eyetech/Pfizer drug and, if approved by the FDA, the
    Novartis/Genentech VEGF inhibitor, because doctors and patients
    will have significant experience using these medicines.
    Moreover, the relatively low cost of therapy with Avastin in
    patients with wet AMD presents a further competitive challenge
    in this indication.


 


    The availability of highly effective FDA approved
    TNF-antagonists such as
    Enbrel®
    (Amgen),
    Remicade®
    (Centocor), and
    Humira®
    (Abbott Laboratories), and the IL-1 receptor antagonist
    Kineret®
    (Amgen), and other marketed therapies makes it more difficult to
    successfully develop and commercialize the IL-1 Trap. This is
    one of the reasons we discontinued the development of the IL-1
    Trap in adult rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, even if the
    IL-1 Trap is ever approved for sale, it will be difficult for
    our drug to compete against these FDA approved TNF-antagonists
    in indications where both are useful because doctors and
    patients will have significant experience using these effective
    medicines. Moreover, in such indications these approved
    therapeutics may offer competitive advantages over the IL-1
    Trap, such as requiring fewer injections.


 


    There are both small molecules and antibodies in development by
    third parties that are designed to block the synthesis of
    interleukin-1 or inhibit the signaling of interleukin-1. For
    example, Novartis is developing an antibody to interleukin-1 and
    Amgen is developing an antibody to the interleukin-1 receptor.
    These drug candidates could



    
    18



Table of Contents




    offer competitive advantages over the IL-1 Trap. The successful
    development of these competing molecules could delay or impair
    our ability to successfully develop and commercialize the IL-1
    Trap. For example, we may find it difficult to enroll patients
    in clinical trials for the IL-1 Trap if the companies developing
    these competing interleukin-1 inhibitors commence clinical
    trials in the same indications.


 


    We are developing the IL-1 Trap for the treatment of a spectrum
    of rare diseases associated with mutations in the CIAS1
    gene. These rare genetic disorders affect a small group of
    people, estimated to be between several hundred and a few
    thousand. There may be too few patients with these genetic
    disorders to profitably commercialize the IL-1 Trap in this
    indication.


 



    The
    successful commercialization of our product candidates will
    depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these
    products from third-party payers.


 


    Sales of biopharmaceutical products largely depend on the
    reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government
    health care programs and private health insurers. Without the
    financial support of the governments or third-party payers, the
    market for any biopharmaceutical product will be limited. These
    third-party payers increasingly challenge the price and examine
    the cost-effectiveness of products and services. Significant
    uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of any new
    therapeutic, particularly if there exist lower-cost standards of
    care. Third-party payers may not reimburse sales of our
    products, which would harm our business.


 



    Risk
    Related to Employees


 



    We are
    dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and
    retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and
    commercial organizations, our business will be
    harmed.


 


    We are highly dependent on our executive officers. If we are not
    able to retain any of these persons or our Chairman, our
    business may suffer. In particular, we depend on the services of
    P. Roy Vagelos, M.D., the Chairman of our board of
    directors, Leonard Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., our
    President and Chief Executive Officer, George D.
    Yancopoulos, M.D., Ph.D., our Executive Vice
    President, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Regeneron
    Research Laboratories, Murray A. Goldberg, our Senior Vice
    President, Finance & Administration, Chief Financial
    Officer, Treasurer, and Assistant Secretary, Neil
    Stahl, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President, Preclinical
    Development and Biomolecular Science, and Randall G.
    Rupp, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President, Manufacturing
    Operations. There is intense competition in the biotechnology
    industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in
    the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. We
    may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified
    personnel necessary for developing our business.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Common Stock


 



    Our
    stock price is extremely volatile.


 


    There has been significant volatility in our stock price and
    generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies’
    securities. Various factors and events may have a significant
    impact on the market price of our common stock. These factors
    include, by way of example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    progress, delays, or adverse results in clinical trials;



 


     
        • 

    
    announcement of technological innovations or product candidates
    by us or competitors;



 


     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in our operating results;



 


     
        • 

    
    public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of our product
    candidates;



 


     
        • 

    
    developments in our relationship with collaborative partners;



 


     
        • 

    
    developments in the biotechnology industry or in government
    regulation of healthcare;



 


     
        • 

    
    large sales of our common stock by our executive officers,
    directors, or significant shareholders;






    
    19



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    arrivals and departures of key personnel; and



 


     
        • 

    
    general market conditions.





 


    The trading price of our common stock has been, and could
    continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to
    these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of
    a large amount of our common stock in the market. Broad market
    fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our
    common stock.


 



    Future
    sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders or us
    may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise
    funds in new share offerings.


 


    A small number of our shareholders beneficially own a
    substantial amount of our common stock. As of December 31,
    2005, our seven largest shareholders, including sanofi-aventis,
    beneficially owned 47.0% of our outstanding shares of Common
    Stock, assuming, in the case of Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D.
    Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer, and P. Roy
    Vagelos, M.D., our Chairman, the conversion of their
    Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of all
    options held by them which are exercisable within 60 days
    of December 31, 2005. As of that date, sanofi-aventis owned
    2,799,552 shares of Common Stock, representing
    approximately 5.2% of the shares of Common Stock then
    outstanding. Under our stock purchase agreement with
    sanofi-aventis, through September 5, 2006, sanofi-aventis
    may sell no more than 250,000 of these shares in any calendar
    quarter. After September 5, 2006, sanofi-aventis may sell
    no more than 500,000 of these shares in any calendar quarter. If
    sanofi-aventis, or our other significant shareholders or we,
    sell substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public
    market, or the perception that such sales may occur exists, the
    market price of our Common Stock could fall. Sales of Common
    Stock by our significant shareholders, including sanofi-aventis,
    also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by
    selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a
    time and price that we deem appropriate.


 



    Our
    existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence
    over matters requiring shareholder approval.


 


    Holders of Class A Stock, who are generally the
    shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our
    initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share,
    while holders of Common Stock are entitled to one vote per
    share. As of December 31, 2005, holders of Class A
    Stock held 4.2% of all shares of Common Stock and Class A
    Stock then outstanding, and had 30.3% of the combined voting
    power of all of Common Stock and Class A Stock then
    outstanding. These shareholders, if acting together, would be in
    a position to significantly influence the election of our
    directors and to effect or prevent certain corporate
    transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of
    the combined classes, including mergers and other business
    combinations. This may result in our company taking corporate
    actions that you may not consider to be in your best interest
    and may affect the price of our Common Stock. As of
    December 31, 2005:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our current officers and directors beneficially owned 14.8% of
    our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming conversion of
    their Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of
    all options held by such persons which are exercisable within
    60 days of December 31, 2005, and 33.6% of the
    combined voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock
    and Class A Stock, assuming the exercise of all options
    held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days
    of December 31, 2005; and



 


     
        • 

    
    our seven largest shareholders beneficially owned 47.0% of our
    outstanding shares of Common Stock assuming, in the case of
    Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., our Chief Executive
    Officer, and P. Roy Vagelos, M.D., our Chairman, the conversion
    of their Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise
    of all options held by them which are exercisable within
    60 days of December 31, 2005. In addition, these seven
    shareholders held 53.4% of the combined voting power of our
    outstanding shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock,
    assuming the exercise of all options held by our Chief Executive
    Officer and our Chairman which are exercisable within
    60 days of December 31, 2005.






    
    20



Table of Contents



 



    The
    anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and
    rights agreement, and of New York corporate law, could deter,
    delay, or prevent an acquisition or other “change in
    control” of us and could adversely affect the price of our
    common stock.


 


    Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our
    by-laws, our rights agreement and the New York Business
    Corporation Law contain various provisions that could have the
    effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our
    company or our management that shareholders may consider
    favorable or beneficial. Some of these provisions could
    discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and
    other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate
    actions. These provisions could also limit the price that
    investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of
    our common stock. These provisions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock,
    which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the
    board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with
    rights senior to those of our common shareholders;



 


     
        • 

    
    a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three
    successive annual meetings to replace all of our directors;



 


     
        • 

    
    a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for
    cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty
    percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for
    directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the
    board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors;



 


     
        • 

    
    any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of
    shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to
    such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of
    which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at
    a duly convened meeting;



 


     
        • 

    
    any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual
    meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this
    intention in writing and meet various other
    requirements; and



 


     
        • 

    
    under the New York Business Corporation Law, a plan of merger or
    consolidation of the Company must be approved by two-thirds of
    the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon.
    See the risk factor immediately above captioned “Our
    existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence
    over matters requiring shareholder approval.”





 


    We have a shareholder rights plan which could make it more
    difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of
    our board of directors and principal shareholders. In addition,
    many of our stock options issued under our 2000 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan may become fully vested in connection with a
    “change in control” of the Company, as defined in the
    plan.





 




    
    



    
    Item 1B