Item 1A.    Risk Factors  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The Company’s business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. The most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows:  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">The global economic crisis may continue to harm the Company’s business and financial condition.    The world
economy may continue in a prolonged economic downturn characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. Given the nature of the Company’s business, financial results could be
significantly harmed should such a prolonged downturn occur. In the past, the Company’s business has suffered during periods of high unemployment as demand for staffing services tends to significantly decrease during such periods. This impact
on the Company’s business could be further dramatized given the unprecedented impact it has had and may continue to have on the global labor markets. In addition, the impact of the economic crisis could harm the Company’s financial
condition. At December 31, 2009, the
  
 4 





 
Company had approximately $366 million in cash and cash equivalents. The Company has historically invested these amounts in U.S. treasuries and government agencies, bank deposits, corporate
debt, money market funds, commercial paper and municipal bonds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. These risks associated with the Company’s investment
portfolio may negatively impact the Company’s financial condition.  Any reduction in global economic activity
may harm the Company’s business.    The demand for the Company’s services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the
Company’s clients. Any variation in the economic condition or unemployment levels of the U.S. or of any of the foreign countries in which the Company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any
specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the Company’s services and thereby significantly decrease the Company’s revenues and profits.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The Company’s business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results.    As a provider of temporary and
permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the Company’s reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants. If the Company’s clients
become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in conduct that is harmful to the Company’s clients, the Company’s ability to maintain or expand its client base
may be harmed.  The Company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits
alleging various wage and hour claims that could cause the Company to incur substantial liabilities.    The Company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in five class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on
behalf of the Company’s current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour matters. Four of such lawsuits allege, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as
exempt employees under applicable law and other related wage and hour violations and seek an unspecified amount for unpaid overtime compensation, statutory penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys’ fees. The fifth lawsuit alleges,
among other things, that temporary employees in California were improperly denied expense reimbursement and wages for time purportedly spent preparing for, traveling to, and attending interviews, and seeks compensation for such expenses and wages,
penalties and injunctive relief, as well as attorneys’ fees. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. However, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the Company’s financial and managerial resources and might
result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. An unfavorable outcome with respect to these
lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the Company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In
addition, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these cases could cause the Company to change its incentive compensation plans for its employees, which could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">The Company faces risks in operating internationally.    The Company depends on operations in international
markets for a significant portion of its business. These international operations are subject to a number of risks, including general political and economic conditions in those foreign countries, the burden of complying with various foreign laws and
technical standards and unpredictable changes in foreign regulations, U.S. legal requirements governing U.S. companies operating in foreign countries, legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, potential adverse tax consequences and
difficulty in staffing and managing international operations. In addition, the Company’s business may be affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. In particular, the Company is subject to risk in translating its results in foreign
currencies into the U.S. dollar. If the value of the U.S. dollar declines relative to other currencies, the Company’s reported income from these operations could decrease.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">The Company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business.    The Company’s
staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. There can be no assurance that
  
 5 





 
candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the Company. Candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the Company and its
competitors. Any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the Company.  The Company operates
in a highly competitive business and may be unable to retain clients or market share.    The staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low.
There are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the Company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. In addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the Company’s revenue. Therefore, there
can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. Nor can there be any assurance that the Company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its
current profit margins.  The Company may incur potential liability to employees and clients.    The
Company’s temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients’ workplaces. The Company’s ability to control the workplace environment is limited. As the employer of
record of its temporary employees, the Company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal
information. While such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the Company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the Company.
The Company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees, or allegations of misuse of client confidential information. The Company maintains insurance with respect
to many of such claims. While such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse
effect upon the Company or that such claims (whether by reason of the Company not having insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the Company’s insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the Company.
 The Company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such
personnel could harm its business.    The Company is engaged in the services business. As such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon
technology or upon tangible assets (of which the Company has few). There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">The Company’s business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its
business.    The Company’s business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. While the Company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there
can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. Any inability of the Company to comply with government regulation or licensing
requirements could materially adversely affect the Company. In addition, the Company’s temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients’ workplaces. Increased
government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the Company.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Health care reform could increase the costs of the Company’s temporary staffing operations.    Health care
reform may be addressed by Congress during 2010. Depending upon the provisions of any final legislation that is adopted, the cost to the Company of providing temporary employees may be increased by the terms of the reform. Such an increase in costs
could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profit margins or, if the Company increases its charges to clients, upon the demand for the Company’s services, which could materially reduce revenues.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">The Company’s computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and
interruption.    The Company’s ability to manage its operations successfully is critical to its success and
  
 6 





 
largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware and software systems. The Company’s primary computer systems and operations are
vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by the Company’s employees.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the Company’s financial
reporting.    Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the Company’s financial reporting. If the Company’s management is unable to certify the
effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the Company’s internal
controls are identified, the Company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. In addition, if the Company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to
accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall.  The
demand for the Company’s services related to Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline.    The operations of both the staffing services business and Protiviti include services related to
Sarbanes-Oxley and other regulatory compliance. There can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services.  <FONT STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the Company’s revenue.    Because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the Company’s staffing services business, future
results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results.  Protiviti may be
unable to attract and retain key personnel.    Protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain personnel. While Protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there
can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so.  Protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and
faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations.    Protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. As with the Company’s staffing services business, the barriers to entry are
quite low. There are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than Protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than Protiviti. In particular, Protiviti faces competition from the “big
four” accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. Because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project
methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that Protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Protiviti’s operations could subject it to liability.    The business of Protiviti consists of providing business consulting and internal audit services.
Liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the Company or Protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. There can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not
have a material adverse impact on Protiviti or the Company.  Item 1B