Item 1A.    Risk Factors  The Company’s business prospects are subject to various risks and
uncertainties that impact its business. The most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows:  Business Highly Dependent
Upon the State of the Economy.    The demand for the Company’s services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the Company’s clients.
Any variation in the economic condition or unemployment levels of the U.S. or of any of the foreign countries in which the Company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may
severely reduce the demand for the Company’s services and thereby significantly decrease the Company’s revenues and profits.   
 4 





 Availability of Candidates.    The Company’s staffing services business
consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. There can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the Company. Candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple
sources, including the Company and its competitors. Any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the Company.  Highly
Competitive Business.    The staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. There are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than
the Company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. In addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the Company’s revenue. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain clients or
market share in the future. Nor can there be any assurance that the Company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Reputation.    The success of the Company’s staffing and Protiviti businesses is highly dependent upon their
reputations. Any event that adversely impacts the reputation of either business could materially adversely affect the Company.  <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Potential Liability to Employees and Clients.    The Company’s temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients’ workplaces. The
Company’s ability to control the workplace environment is limited. As the employer of record of its temporary employees, the Company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of
physical injury, discrimination or harassment. While such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the Company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material
adverse effect upon the Company. The Company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees. The Company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims.
While such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the Company
or that such claims (whether by reason of the Company not having insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the Company’s insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the Company.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Dependence Upon Personnel.    The Company is engaged in the services business. As such, its success or failure is highly
dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the Company has few). There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain the personnel
that are essential to its success.  Government Regulation.    The Company’s business is subject to
regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. While the Company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to obtain all
necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. Any inability of the Company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the Company.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Government Regulation of the Workplace.    The Company’s temporary services business entails employing individuals on a
temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients’ workplaces. Increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could
materially adversely affect the Company.  Demand for Services.    The operations of both the staffing services
business and Protiviti include services related to Sarbanes-Oxley and other regulatory compliance. There can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services.  <FONT
SIZE="1"> 
 5 





 Reliance on Short-Term Contracts.    Because long-term contracts are not a
significant part of the Company’s staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The Company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits alleging various wage and hour claims that could cause the Company to incur substantial
liabilities.    The Company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the Company’s current and former employees alleging violations of federal
and state law with respect to certain wage and hour matters. The Company and certain subsidiaries are currently defendants in four such lawsuits in California and one such lawsuit in Massachusetts. All five lawsuits allege, among other things, the
misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under federal and state law and other related wage and hour violations and seek an unspecified amount for unpaid overtime compensation, statutory penalties, and other damages, as well as
attorneys’ fees. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. However, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the Company’s financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of
the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. An unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could,
individually or in the aggregate, cause the Company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Protiviti Dependence on Personnel.    Protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and
retain personnel. While Protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so.  <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Protiviti Competition.    Protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. As with the Company’s staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. There are many competitors, some of which
have greater resources than Protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than Protiviti. In particular, Protiviti faces competition from the “big four” accounting firms, which have been in operation
for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. Because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of
personnel, there can be no assurance that Protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients.  Potential
Liability.    The business of Protiviti consists of providing internal audit and business and technology risk consulting services. Liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the Company or
Protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. There can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on Protiviti or the Company.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:18px;margin-bottom:0px">Item 1B