Item 1A — “Risk Factors
    — Risks Related to Our Business — Our
    business is subject to risks associated with importing
    products.”


 


    Most of the businesses in our Wholesale segment must commit to
    manufacture our garments before we receive customer orders. We
    also must commit to purchase fabric from mills well in advance
    of our sales. If we overestimate our primary customers’
    demand for a particular product, we may sell the excess in our
    factory stores or sell the product through secondary
    distribution channels. If we overestimate the need for a
    particular fabric or yarn, that fabric or yarn may be used in
    garments made for subsequent seasons or made into past
    seasons’ styles for distribution in our factory stores.


 


    Suppliers operate under the close supervision of our global
    manufacturing division and buying agents headquartered in Asia,
    the Americas and Europe. All garments are produced according to
    our specifications. Production and quality control staff in the
    Americas, Asia and Europe monitor manufacturing at supplier
    facilities in order to correct problems prior to shipment of the
    final product. Procedures have been implemented under our vendor
    certification and compliance programs, so that quality assurance
    is focused upon as early as possible in the production process,
    allowing merchandise to be received at the distribution
    facilities and shipped to customers with minimal interruption.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Competition


 


    Competition is very strong in the segments of the fashion and
    consumer product industries in which we operate. We compete with
    numerous designers and manufacturers of apparel and accessories,
    fragrances and home furnishing products, domestic and foreign.
    Some of our competitors may be significantly larger and have
    substantially greater resources than us. We compete primarily on
    the basis of fashion, quality and service, which depend on our
    ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands in a timely
    manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain favorable brand recognition;




 



     
        • 

    
    develop and produce high quality products that appeal to
    consumers;




 



     
        • 

    
    appropriately price our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    provide strong and effective marketing support;




 



     
        • 

    
    ensure product availability; and




 



     
        • 

    
    obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present our
    products at retail.





 


    See Item 1A — “Risk Factors
    — Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We
    Compete — We face intense competition in the
    worldwide apparel industry.”


 



    Distribution


 


    To facilitate distribution in the U.S., Ralph Lauren products
    are shipped from manufacturers to a network of distribution
    centers for inspection, sorting, packing and shipment to retail
    customers. This network includes our distribution center in
    Greensboro, North Carolina, third party logistics
    centers — primarily in Chino Hills,
    California — and, for Childrenswear products, a leased
    distribution center in Martinsburg, West Virginia. Our
    full-price store, factory store and Club Monaco shipments are
    distributed through this network. All facilities are designed to
    allow for high density cube storage and utilize bar code
    technology to provide inventory management and controls.
    European distribution has been consolidated into one third party
    facility located in Parma, Italy. Japan logistics have been
    consolidated into one third party facility in Kawasaki.


 


    RalphLauren.com and Rugby.com customer contact functions and
    order fulfillment are performed at a leased facility in High
    Point, North Carolina.


 



    Management
    Information Systems


 


    Our management information systems make the marketing,
    manufacturing, importing and distribution of our products more
    efficient by providing, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    comprehensive order processing;




 



     
        • 

    
    production information;




 



     
        • 

    
    accounting information; and




 



     
        • 

    
    an enterprise view of information for our marketing,
    manufacturing, importing and distribution functions.





 


    The point-of-sale registers in conjunction with other systems in
    our stores enable us to track inventory from store receipt to
    final sale on a real-time basis. We believe our merchandising
    and financial systems, coupled with our point-of-sale registers
    and software programs, allow for stock replenishment, effective
    merchandise planning and real-time inventory accounting. See
    Item 1A — “Risk Factors
    — Risks Related to Our Business —
    Certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters could adversely
    impact our results of operations.”


 


    We also utilize an automated replenishment system, Logility, to
    facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our
    Retail segment and wholesale customers, the movement of goods
    through distribution channels, and the collection of information
    for planning and forecasting. We have a collaborative
    relationship with



    
    16



Table of Contents




    many of our suppliers that enables us to reduce cash-to-cash
    cycles in the management of our inventory. See
    Item 1A — “Risk Factors
    — Risks Related to Our Business
    — Our business could suffer if our computer
    systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate
    effectively.”


 



    Wholesale
    Credit Control


 


    We manage our own credit function. We sell our merchandise
    primarily to major department stores and extend credit based on
    an evaluation of the customer’s financial condition,
    usually without requiring collateral. We monitor credit levels
    and the financial condition of our customers on a continuing
    basis to minimize credit risk. We do not factor our accounts
    receivables or maintain credit insurance to manage the risks of
    bad debts. Collection and deduction transactional activities are
    principally provided through a third party service provider. Our
    bad debt expenses were approximately $14 million in Fiscal
    2009, representing less than 1 percent of net revenues but
    higher than our historical experience due largely to the
    negative effects of the slowdown in the global economy on the
    financial condition and liquidity of our customer base. See
    Item 1A — “Risk Factors — Risks
    Related to Our Business — Our business could be
    negatively impacted by any financial instability of our
    customers.”


 



    Wholesale
    Backlog


 


    We generally receive wholesale orders for apparel products
    approximately three to five months prior to the time the
    products are delivered to stores. Such orders are generally
    subject to broad cancellation rights. As of March 28, 2009,
    our total backlog was $1.289 billion, compared to
    $1.573 billion as of March 29, 2008. We expect that
    substantially all of our backlog orders as of March 28,
    2009 will be filled within the next fiscal year. The size of our
    order backlog depends upon a number of factors, including the
    timing of the market weeks for our particular lines during which
    a significant percentage of our orders are received, and the
    timing of shipments. As a consequence, a comparison of the size
    of our order backlog from period to period may not be
    necessarily meaningful, nor may it be indicative of eventual
    shipments. Nevertheless, the decrease in our order backlog from
    the prior year is associated in part with a reduction in
    customer orders relating to the contraction in consumer spending
    expected to continue during Fiscal 2010.


 



    Trademarks


 


    We own the “Polo,” “Ralph Lauren”,
    “Polo by Ralph Lauren Design” and the famous polo
    player astride a horse trademarks in the U.S. and
    approximately 100 countries worldwide. Other trademarks that we
    similarly own include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    “Lauren Ralph Lauren”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Lauren”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Purple Label”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Pink Pony”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Ralph”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “RRL”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Club Monaco”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Rugby”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “RLX”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Chaps”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “American Living”; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Various trademarks pertaining to fragrances and cosmetics.






    
    17



Table of Contents



 


    Mr. Ralph Lauren has the royalty-free right to use as
    trademarks “Ralph Lauren,” “Double RL” and
    “RRL” in perpetuity in connection with, among other
    things, beef and living animals. The trademarks “Double
    RL” and “RRL” are currently used by the Double RL
    Company, an entity wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. In addition,
    Mr. Lauren has the right to engage in personal projects
    involving film or theatrical productions (not including or
    relating to our business) through RRL Productions, Inc., a
    company wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. Any activity by these
    companies has no impact on us.


 


    Our trademarks are the subjects of registrations and pending
    applications throughout the world for use on a variety of items
    of apparel, apparel-related products, home furnishings,
    restaurant and café services, online services and online
    publications and beauty products, as well as in connection with
    retail services, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage
    and registration of related trademarks. In general, trademarks
    remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks are used in
    connection with the related products and services and the
    required registration renewals are filed. We regard the license
    to use the trademarks and our other proprietary rights in and to
    the trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our
    products and, on a worldwide basis, vigorously seek to protect
    them against infringement (see Item 3 —
    “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion). As
    a result of the appeal of our trademarks, our products have been
    the object of counterfeiting. We have a broad enforcement
    program which has been generally effective in controlling the
    sale of counterfeit products in the U.S. and in major
    markets abroad.


 


    In markets outside of the U.S., our rights to some or all of our
    trademarks may not be clearly established. In the course of our
    international expansion, we have experienced conflicts with
    various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in
    certain trademarks, including “Polo”
    and/or a
    representation of a polo player astride a horse, which impede
    our use and registration of our principal trademarks. While such
    conflicts are common and may arise again from time to time as we
    continue our international expansion, we have generally
    successfully resolved such conflicts in the past through both
    legal action and negotiated settlements with third-party owners
    of the conflicting marks (see Item 1A —
    “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our
    Business — Our trademarks and other
    intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected
    outside the U.S.” and Item 3 —
    “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion).
    Although we have not in the past suffered any material
    restraints or restrictions on doing business in desirable
    markets, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not
    arise in the future as we expand product offerings and
    additional trademarks to new markets.


 



    Import
    Restrictions and Other Government Regulations


 


    Virtually all of our merchandise imported into the U.S., Canada,
    and Europe is subject to duties. Until January 1, 2008,
    much of our apparel merchandise was also subject to safeguard
    quotas. Notwithstanding quota elimination, China’s
    accession agreement for membership in the WTO provided that WTO
    member countries (including the U.S., Canada and European
    countries) could reimpose quotas on specific categories of
    products in the event it is determined that imports from China
    surged and threatened to create a market disruption for such
    categories of products (so called “safeguard quota
    provisions”). Such safeguard quotas were permissible
    through January 1, 2008. From January 1, 2008 through
    January 1, 2011, WTO member countries can reimpose
    merchandise-specific safeguard quota. No such quotas are
    currently in effect. In addition, effective January 1,
    2008, the European Union agreed with China on a new textile
    arrangement which imposed a double surveillance licensing scheme
    which terminated at the end of calendar year 2008. The
    U.S. and other countries may also unilaterally impose
    additional duties in response to a particular product being
    imported (from China or other countries) at unfairly traded
    prices that in such increased quantities as to cause (or
    threaten) injury to the relevant domestic industry (generally
    known as “anti-dumping” actions). The European Union
    has imposed certain anti-dumping duties on imports from China
    and Vietnam in certain footwear categories. Canada currently
    also has an anti-dumping proceeding on footwear under
    consideration. If dumping is suspected in the U.S., the
    U.S. Government may self-initiate a dumping case on behalf
    of the U.S. textile industry which could significantly
    affect our costs. Furthermore, additional duties, generally
    known as countervailing duties, can also be imposed by the
    U.S. Government to offset subsidies provided by a foreign
    government to foreign manufactures if the importation of such
    subsidized merchandise injures or threatens to injure a
    U.S. industry. Recent developments have now made it
    possible to impose countervailing duties on products from
    non-market economies, such as China, which could significantly
    increase our costs.



    
    18



Table of Contents




    We are also subject to other international trade agreements and
    regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement,
    the Central American Free Trade Agreement and the Caribbean
    Basin Initiative. In addition, each of the countries in which
    our products are sold has laws and regulations covering imports.
    Because the U.S. and the other countries in which our
    products are manufactured and sold may, from time to time,
    impose new duties, tariffs, surcharges or other import controls
    or restrictions, including the imposition of “safeguard
    quota,” or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates
    or levels, we maintain a program of intensive monitoring of
    import restrictions and opportunities. We seek to minimize our
    potential exposure to import related risks through, among other
    measures, adjustments in product design and fabrication, shifts
    of production among countries and manufacturers, as well as
    through geographical diversification of our sources of supply.


 


    As almost all our products are manufactured by foreign
    suppliers, the enactment of new legislation or the
    administration of current international trade regulations,
    executive action affecting textile agreements, or changes in
    sourcing patterns resulting from the elimination of quota could
    adversely affect our operations. Although we generally expect
    that the 2005 elimination of quotas will result, over the long
    term, in an overall reduction in the cost of apparel produced
    abroad, the implementation of any “safeguard quota
    provisions” or any “anti-dumping” or
    “countervailing duty” actions may result, over the
    near term, in cost increases and in disruption of the supply
    chain for certain products categories. See
    Item 1A — “Risk Factors” below
    for further discussion.


 


    Apparel and other products sold by us are also subject to
    regulation in the U.S. and other countries by other
    governmental agencies, including, in the U.S., the Federal Trade
    Commission, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Consumer
    Products Safety Commission, including the recently enacted
    Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (“CPSIA”)
    which imposes new limitations on the permissible amounts of lead
    and phthalates allowed in children’s products. These
    regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing
    requirements, flammability testing, and product safety
    particularly with respect to products used by children. We
    believe that we are in substantial compliance with those
    regulations, as well as applicable federal, state, local, and
    foreign rules and regulations governing the discharge of
    materials hazardous to the environment. We do not estimate any
    significant capital expenditures for environmental control
    matters either in the current year or in the near future. Our
    licensed products and licensing partners are also subject to
    regulation. Our agreements require our licensing partners to
    operate in compliance with all laws and regulations, and we are
    not aware of any violations which could reasonably be expected
    to have a material adverse effect on our business or results of
    operations.


 


    Although we have not suffered any material restriction from
    doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot
    assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future
    as we expand product offerings and introduce additional
    trademarks to new markets.


 



    Employees


 


    As of March 28, 2009, we had approximately
    17,000 employees, both full and part-time, consisting of
    approximately 12,000 in the U.S. and approximately 5,000 in
    foreign countries. 30 of our U.S. production and
    distribution employees in the womenswear business are members of
    UNITE HERE (which was previously known as the Union of
    Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, prior to its
    merger with the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees
    International Union) under an industry association collective
    bargaining agreement, which our womenswear subsidiary has
    adopted. We consider our relations with both our union and
    non-union employees to be good.



    
    19



Table of Contents





    Executive
    Officers


 


    The following are our current executive officers and their
    principal recent business experience:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Ralph Lauren



 


    Age 69


 


    Mr. Lauren has been Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a
    director of the Company since prior to the Company’s
    initial public offering in 1997, and was a member of the
    Advisory Board of the Board of Directors of the Company’s
    predecessors since their organization. He founded Polo in 1967
    and has provided leadership in the design, marketing,
    advertising and operational areas since such time.





    Roger N. Farah



 


    Age 56


 


    Mr. Farah has been President, Chief Operating Officer and a
    director of the Company since April 2000. He was Chairman
    of the Board of Venator Group, Inc. from December 1994 to
    April 2000, and was Chief Executive Officer of Venator
    Group, Inc. from December 1994 to August 1999. Mr. Farah is
    a member of the Board of Directors of Aetna, Inc. and
    Progressive Corp.





    Jackwyn Nemerov



 


    Age 57


 


    Ms. Nemerov has been Executive Vice President of the Company
    since September 2004 and a director of the Company since
    February 2007. From 1998 to 2002, she was President and Chief
    Operating Officer of Jones Apparel Group, Inc.





    Tracey T. Travis



 


    Age 46


 


    Ms. Travis has been Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer of the Company since January 2005. Ms. Travis
    served as Senior Vice President, Finance of Limited Brands, Inc.
    from April 2002 until August 2004, and Chief Financial Officer
    of Intimate Brands, Inc. from April 2001 to April 2002. Prior to
    that time, Ms. Travis was Chief Financial Officer of the
    Beverage Can Americas group at American National Can from 1999
    to 2001, and held various finance and operations positions at
    Pepsi Bottling Group from 1989-1999. Ms. Travis is a member
    of the boards of directors of Jo-Ann Stores, Inc. and the
    Lincoln Center Theater.





    Mitchell A. Kosh



 


    Age 59


 


    Mr. Kosh has served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources
    and Legal of the Company since July 2000. He was Senior Vice
    President of Human Resources of Conseco, Inc., from February
    2000 to July 2000. Prior to that time, Mr. Kosh held executive
    human resource positions with the Venator Group, Inc. starting
    in 1996.









    
    20



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    There are risks associated with an investment in our securities.
    The following risk factors should be read carefully in
    connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking
    statements contained in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our
    business, our prospects, our operating results, our financial
    condition, the trading prices of our securities and the actual
    outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are
    made in this report. Additional risks that we do not yet know of
    or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our
    business operations.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 



    The loss
    of the services of Mr. Ralph Lauren or other key personnel
    could have a material adverse effect on our business.


 


    Mr. Ralph Lauren’s leadership in the design, marketing
    and operational areas of our business has been a critical
    element of our success since the inception of our Company. The
    death or disability of Mr. Lauren or other extended or
    permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or
    industry perception with respect to him or arising from his
    loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our
    other executive officers and other members of senior management
    have substantial experience and expertise in our business and
    have made significant contributions to our growth and success.
    The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these
    individuals could also adversely affect us. We are not protected
    by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance
    covering Mr. Lauren, our other executive officers and
    certain other members of senior management. We have entered into
    employment agreements with Mr. Lauren and our other
    executive officers, but the noncompete period with respect to
    Mr. Lauren and certain other executive officers could, in
    some circumstances in the event of their termination of
    employment with the Company, end prior to the employment term
    set forth in their employment agreements.


 



    Our
    business could be negatively impacted by any financial
    instability of our customers.


 


    We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department
    stores across the U.S. and Europe and extend credit based
    on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition,
    usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial
    difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or
    eliminate business with that customer. We may also assume more
    credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables. In the
    aggregate, our seven largest department-store customers
    constituted approximately 40% of our gross trade accounts
    receivable outstanding as of March 28, 2009 and contributed
    approximately 50% of all wholesale revenues for Fiscal 2009. Our
    inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any
    one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on
    our business or financial condition. See Item 1 —
    “Business — Wholesale Credit
    Control.”


 



    The
    current economic crisis could have a negative impact on our
    major customers and suppliers which in turn could materially
    adversely affect our results of operations and
    liquidity.


 


    The current economic crisis is having a significant negative
    impact on businesses around the world. Although we believe that
    our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity
    under our revolving credit facility will provide us with
    sufficient liquidity through the current economic crisis, the
    impact of this crisis on our major customers and suppliers
    cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. The inability of
    major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our
    ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers.
    A disruption in the ability of our significant customers to
    access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall
    deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a
    significant reduction in their future orders of our products and
    the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment
    obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations and liquidity.


 



    We cannot
    assure the successful implementation of our growth
    strategy.


 


    As part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands,
    expand our geographic coverage and increase direct management of
    our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically
    acquiring or integrating select licenses previously held by our
    licensees and enhancing our operations. Implementation of our
    strategy involves the



    
    21



Table of Contents




    continued expansion of our business in Europe, Asia and other
    international areas. As discussed in Item 1 —
    “Business — Recent Developments,” on
    August 1, 2008, we acquired our previously licensed
    childrenswear and golf apparel businesses in Japan. In Fiscal
    2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Impact 21 Co., Ltd.
    (“Impact 21”) and the remaining 50% interest in Polo
    Ralph Lauren Japan Corporation (“PRL Japan”). We also
    acquired our previously licensed belts and leather goods
    business in April 2007 and the remaining 50% interest in Ralph
    Lauren Media, LLC (“RL Media”) in March 2007.


 


    Also, as discussed in Item 1 — “Business
    — Recent Developments,” in February
    2009, we entered into an agreement with Dickson to assume direct
    control of our Polo-branded licensed apparel businesses in
    Southeast Asia effective January 1, 2010.


 


    We may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our
    operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or
    otherwise successfully managing such expansion. Furthermore, we
    may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any
    licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any
    expected cost savings or synergies from such integration.


 


    In Fiscal 2008, we launched American Living, a new
    lifestyle brand created exclusively in the U.S. for
    JCPenney. The success of American Living and the
    introduction of new product categories in both the U.S. and
    overseas may be negatively impacted in Fiscal 2010 by the
    contraction in consumer spending associated with the current
    weakened global economic environment. See
    Item 7 — “Overview — Global
    Economic Developments” for further discussion.


 


    Implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation
    and expansion of our retail distribution network, both in the
    U.S. and abroad, which are subject to many factors beyond
    our control. We may not be able to procure, purchase or lease
    desirable free- standing or department store locations, or renew
    and maintain existing free-standing store leases and department
    store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable
    replacement locations. The lease negotiation as well as the
    number and timing of new stores actually opened during any given
    period, and their associated contribution to net income for the
    period, depends on a number of factors including, but not
    limited, to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to
    us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of
    the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to
    commence build-out construction activities; (iii) our
    ability and our landlords’ ability to obtain all necessary
    governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our
    stores on a timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the
    construction and development costs of new stores; (v) the
    rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental
    problems with the leased premises; (vi) adverse weather
    during the construction period; and (vii) the hiring and
    training of qualified operating personnel in the local market.
    While we continue to explore new markets and are always
    evaluating new potential locations, any of the above factors
    could have an adverse impact on our financial operations.


 


    In Europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we
    have in the U.S., and we may have difficulty developing
    successful distribution strategies and alliances in each of the
    major European countries. In Japan, our primary mode of
    distribution is via a network of shops located within the
    leading department stores. We may have difficulty in
    successfully retaining this network, and expanding into
    alternate distribution channels. Additionally, macroeconomic
    trends may not be favorable, and could limit our ability to
    implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we
    have foreign operations, such as Europe and Asia.


 



    Our
    business could suffer as a result of consolidations,
    liquidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the
    retail industry.


 


    Several of our department store customers, including some under
    common ownership, account for significant portions of our
    wholesale net sales. We believe that a substantial portion of
    sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing
    partners, including sales made by our sales force of Ralph
    Lauren Home products, are also made to our largest department
    store customers. In the aggregate, our seven largest
    department-store customers accounted for approximately 50% of
    our wholesale net sales during Fiscal 2009. There can be no
    assurance that consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations
    or other ownership changes in the department store sector will
    not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business.



    
    22



Table of Contents




    We typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our
    customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order
    commitments with our customers for each of our lines every
    season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores
    or any other significant customer, whether motivated by
    competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to
    decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from
    us or our licensing partners; or to change their manner of doing
    business with us or our licensing partners or their new
    strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued
    focus on further development of their “private label”
    initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business or financial condition.


 



    Our
    profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on
    margins.


 


    The apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure
    caused by many factors, including intense competition,
    consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to
    reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending
    patterns. These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices
    to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin
    to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory
    levels
    and/or
    otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in
    our operating costs. If our sales prices decline and we fail to
    sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our
    profitability will decline. This could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.


 



    Certain
    legal proceedings and regulatory matters could adversely impact
    our results of operations.


 


    We are involved in certain legal proceedings and are subject
    from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of
    contract claims, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain
    of our retail store information systems, employment issues,
    consumer matters and other litigations. Certain of these
    lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by
    us, could result in material liability to the Company or have a
    negative impact on the Company’s reputation or relations
    with its employees, customers, licensees or other third parties.
    In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or
    regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in
    substantial costs and may require that the Company devotes
    substantial time and resources to defend itself. Further,
    changes in governmental regulations both in the U.S. and in
    other countries where we conduct business operations could have
    an adverse impact on our results of operations. See
    Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” for
    further discussion of the Company’s legal matters.


 



    Our
    business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are
    disrupted or cease to operate effectively.


 


    The Company relies heavily on its computer systems to record and
    process transactions and manage and operate our business. We
    also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the
    processing of basic replenishment orders from our wholesale
    customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels,
    and the collection of information for planning and forecasting.
    In addition, we have
    e-commerce
    and other Internet websites in the U.S. Given the
    complexity of our business and the significant number of
    transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is
    imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer
    hardware and software systems. Despite our preventative efforts,
    our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or
    interruption from, among other things, security breaches,
    computer viruses or power outages.


 



    Our
    business is subject to risks associated with importing
    products.


 


    As of March 28, 2009, we source a significant portion of
    our products outside the U.S. through arrangements with
    over 350 foreign vendors in various countries. In Fiscal 2009,
    over 98%, by dollar value, of our products were produced outside
    the U.S., primarily in Asia, Europe and South America. Risks
    inherent in importing our products include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements with China and
    non-WTO countries. These agreements limit the amount and type of
    goods that may be imported annually from these countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in social, political and economic conditions or
    terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from
    the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are
    located;




 



     
        • 

    
    the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or
    exports;




 



     
        • 

    
    the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on
    imports or exports;






    
    23



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    significant fluctuations of the cost of raw materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security
    considerations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings
    resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or
    countervailing duties; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties
    either by the U.S. or its trading partners to remedy
    perceived illegal actions by national governments.





 


    Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Our
    ability to conduct business in international markets may be
    affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic
    risks.


 


    Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets
    and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing
    international markets is subject to risks associated with
    international operations. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and
    regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and




 



     
        • 

    
    new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets.





 


    We are also subject to general political and economic risks in
    connection with our international operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    political instability and terrorist attacks;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets.





 


    We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other
    similar restrictions will be imposed by the U.S., the European
    Union, Asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our
    products in the future, or what effect any of these actions
    would have on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or
    economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse
    effect on our business in the future or may require us to
    significantly modify our current business practices.


 



    Our
    trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be
    adequately protected outside the U.S.


 


    We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are
    extremely important to our success and our competitive position.
    We devote substantial resources to the establishment and
    protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities
    worldwide. Significant counterfeiting of our products continues,
    however, and in the course of our international expansion we
    have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have
    acquired or claimed ownership rights in some trademarks that
    include Polo
    and/or a
    representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise
    have contested our rights to our trademarks. We have in the past
    resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action
    and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a
    material impact on our financial condition and results of
    operations. We cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken
    to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary
    rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material
    adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation
    of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to
    block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and
    proprietary rights of others. Also, there can be no assurance
    that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of,
    trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will
    be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our
    satisfaction or at all. In addition, the laws of certain foreign
    countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent
    as do the laws of the U.S. See Item 1 —
    “Business — Trademarks,” and
    Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings.”



    
    24



Table of Contents





    Our
    business could suffer as a result of a manufacturer’s
    inability to produce our goods on time and to our
    specifications.


 


    We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend
    exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of
    all of our products. Our products are manufactured to our
    specifications primarily by international manufacturers. During
    Fiscal 2009, less than 2%, by dollar value, of our men’s
    and women’s products were manufactured in the U.S. and
    over 98%, by dollar value, of these products were manufactured
    in other countries. The inability of a manufacturer to ship
    orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality
    standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements
    of our customers for those items, which could result in
    cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a
    substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    Our
    business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use
    acceptable labor practices.


 


    We require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers
    to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
    While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote
    ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and
    monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do
    not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The
    violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer
    used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence
    of an independent manufacturer’s or licensing
    partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as
    ethical or appropriate in the U.S., could interrupt, or
    otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or
    damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    Our
    business could suffer if we need to replace
    manufacturers.


 


    We compete with other companies for the production capacity of
    our manufacturers and import quota capacity. Some of these
    competitors have greater financial and other resources than we
    have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for
    production and import quota capacity. If we experience a
    significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer
    of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party
    manufacturing capacity. We cannot guarantee that this additional
    capacity will be available when required on terms that are
    acceptable to us. See Item 1 — “Business
    — Sourcing, Production and Quality.”
    We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each
    season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design
    and quality specifications and other standard industry
    provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any
    manufacturer. None of the manufacturers we use produce our
    products exclusively.


 



    Our
    business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency
    fluctuations.


 


    We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars.
    However, we source most of our products overseas. As a result,
    the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the
    value of the relevant currencies. Changes in currency exchange
    rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign
    currency denominated prices at which our international
    businesses sell products. Furthermore, our international sales
    and licensing revenue generally is derived from sales in foreign
    currencies. These foreign currencies include the Japanese Yen,
    the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, and this revenue could
    be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Although we
    hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange
    rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot
    assure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a
    material adverse impact on our financial condition and results
    of operations. See Item 7 —
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Market
    Risk Management.”


 



    We rely
    on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our
    licenses.


 


    The risks associated with our own products also apply to our
    licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks
    specific to a licensing partner’s business, including, for
    example, risks associated with a particular licensing
    partner’s ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    obtain capital;






    
    25



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    manage its labor relations;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain relationships with its suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain relationships with its customers.





 


    Although a number of our license agreements prohibit licensing
    partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our
    competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded
    from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered
    by their license agreements with us. A substantial portion of
    sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are
    also made to our largest customers. While we have significant
    control over our licensing partners’ products and
    advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other
    things, operational and financial control over their businesses.
    Changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor
    execution or financial difficulties with respect to any of our
    licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both
    directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly
    from reduced sales of our other products. See
    Item 1 — “Business — Our
    Licensing Segment.”


 



    Failure
    to maintain licensing partners could harm our
    business.


 


    Although we believe in most circumstances we could replace
    existing licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so
    for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both
    directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly
    from reduced sales of our other products. See
    Item 1 — “Our Licensing Segment.”


 



    The
    voting shares of the Company’s stock are concentrated in
    one majority stockholder.


 


    As of March 28, 2009, Mr. Ralph Lauren, or entities
    controlled by Mr. Ralph Lauren, owned approximately 86% of
    the voting power of the outstanding common stock of the Company.
    As a result, Mr. Lauren has the ability to exercise
    significant control over our business, including, without
    limitation, (i) the election of the Company’s
    Class B common stock directors, voting separately as a
    class, and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our
    stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our
    certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or
    sales of all or substantially all of our assets.


 



    The
    trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall
    based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other
    financial performance.


 


    Our business planning process is designed to maximize our
    long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an
    earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe
    that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the
    Company and our stockholders. At the same time, however, we
    recognize that from time to time it may be helpful to provide
    investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast
    of net sales and earnings. While we generally expect to provide
    updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal
    quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our
    forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. If and
    when we announce actual results that differ from those that have
    been predicted by us, outside analysts or others, the market
    price of our securities could be affected. Investors who rely on
    the predictions when making investment decisions with respect to
    our securities do so at their own risk. We take no
    responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such
    changes in the prices of our securities.


 



    Risks
    Relating to the Industry in Which We Compete


 



    The
    downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer
    purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products,
    which could adversely affect our sales.


 


    The industries in which we operate are cyclical. Many economic
    factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer
    spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessories and
    home products industries, including, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general business conditions;






    
    26



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    economic downturns;




 



     
        • 

    
    employment levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    downturns in the stock market;




 



     
        • 

    
    interest rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    the housing market;




 



     
        • 

    
    consumer debt levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of consumer credit;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in fuel prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    taxation; and




 



     
        • 

    
    consumer confidence in future economic conditions.





 


    Consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail
    products, including our products, may continue to decline during
    recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income
    is lower. A continuing downturn or an uncertain outlook in the
    economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our
    products may materially adversely affect our businesses and our
    revenues and profits. See Item 7 —
    “Overview — Our Objectives and
    Risks” for further discussion.


 


    The domestic and international political situation also affects
    consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of
    terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to
    a decrease in consumer spending.


 



    We face
    intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry.


 


    We face a variety of intense competitive challenges from other
    domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel and casual apparel
    producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more
    diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources
    than we have. We compete with these companies primarily on the
    basis of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a
    timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintaining favorable brand recognition;




 



     
        • 

    
    developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors
    and styles that appeal to consumers;




 



     
        • 

    
    appropriately pricing products;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to anticipate and maintain proper inventory levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    providing strong and effective marketing support;




 



     
        • 

    
    creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain
    efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective
    presentation of our products at retail stores.





 


    We also face increasing competition from companies selling
    apparel and home products through the Internet. Although RL
    Media sells our products domestically through the Internet,
    increased competition in the worldwide apparel, accessories and
    home product industries from Internet-based competitors could
    reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our
    results of operations.


 



    The
    success of our business depends on our ability to respond to
    constantly changing fashion trends and consumer
    demands.


 


    Our success depends in large part on our ability to originate
    and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as
    to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a
    timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of
    consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with
    certainty and are



    
    27



Table of Contents




    subject to rapid change. We cannot assure you that we will be
    able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully
    meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In
    addition, we cannot assure you that any new products or brands
    that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers.
    Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond
    effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends
    could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our
    products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold
    inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may be
    forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of
    excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business and
    impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate
    consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to
    supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience
    inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders,
    negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty
    and result in lost revenues. See Item 1
    — “Business —  Sourcing, Production
    and Quality.”


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B