Item 1A — “Risk Factors
    — Risks Related to Our Business — Our
    business is subject to risks associated with importing
    products.”


 


    Most of the businesses in our Wholesale segment must commit to
    manufacture our garments before we receive customer orders. We
    also must commit to purchase fabric from mills well in advance
    of our sales. If we overestimate our primary customers’
    demand for a particular product or the need for a particular
    fabric or yarn, we may sell the excess products or garments made
    from such fabric or yarn in our factory stores or through
    secondary distribution channels.


 


    Suppliers operate under the close supervision of our global
    manufacturing division and buying agents headquartered in Asia,
    the Americas and Europe. All garments are produced according to
    our specifications. Production and quality control staff in
    Asia, the Americas and Europe monitor manufacturing at supplier
    facilities in order to correct problems prior to shipment of the
    final product. Procedures have been implemented under our vendor
    certification and compliance programs, so that quality assurance
    is focused upon as early as possible in the production process,
    allowing merchandise to be received at the distribution
    facilities and shipped to customers with minimal interruption.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    Competition


 


    Competition is very strong in the segments of the fashion and
    consumer product industries in which we operate. We compete with
    numerous designers and manufacturers of apparel and accessories,
    fragrances and home furnishing products, domestic and foreign.
    Some of our competitors may be significantly larger and have
    substantially greater resources than us. We compete primarily on
    the basis of fashion, quality and service, which depend on our
    ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands in a timely
    manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain favorable brand recognition;




 



     
        • 

    
    develop and produce high quality products that appeal to
    consumers;




 



     
        • 

    
    appropriately price our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    provide strong and effective marketing support;




 



     
        • 

    
    ensure product availability; and




 



     
        • 

    
    obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present our
    products at retail.





 


    See Item 1A — “Risk Factors —
    Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We Compete —
    We face intense competition in the worldwide apparel
    industry.”


 



    Distribution


 


    To facilitate distribution in the U.S., Ralph Lauren products
    are shipped from manufacturers to a network of distribution
    centers for inspection, sorting, packing, and delivery to retail
    and wholesale customers. This network includes our owned
    distribution center in Greensboro, North Carolina, two leased
    facilities in High Point, North Carolina, and third party
    logistics centers in Chino Hills, California and Miami, Florida.
    All facilities are designed to allow for high density cube
    storage and value added services, and utilize unit and carton
    tracking technology to facilitate process control and inventory
    management. Canadian distribution to Club Monaco stores is
    supported by a third party logistics provider in Toronto,
    Ontario. European distribution is serviced by a third party
    facility located in Parma, Italy. Japanese distribution has
    historically been serviced by third party facilities located in
    Kawasaki and Ebina, and is in the process of being transitioned
    to a new third party facility located in Yokohama. South Korean
    distribution is serviced by a leased facility in Gasan.
    Excluding Japan and South Korea, distribution in Asia is
    serviced by a third party facility in Hong Kong, supported by
    third party locations in China, Singapore, Malaysia and Taiwan.
    South American distribution is serviced by third party
    facilities in Buenos Aires, Argentina and Montevideo, Uruguay.
    The distribution network is managed through globally integrated
    information technology systems.


 


    RalphLauren.com and Rugby.com customer order fulfillment is
    performed at a leased facility in High Point, North Carolina.
    Customer order fulfillment for RalphLauren.co.uk, our newly
    launched United Kingdom retail
    e-commerce
    site, is performed at a third party fulfillment center in Parma,
    Italy.


 



    Management
    Information Systems


 


    Our management information systems make the design, marketing,
    manufacturing, importing and distribution of our products more
    efficient by providing, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    comprehensive order processing;




 



     
        • 

    
    production and design information;




 



     
        • 

    
    accounting information; and




 



     
        • 

    
    an enterprise view of information for our design, marketing,
    manufacturing, importing and distribution functions.







    
    18



Table of Contents




 


    The
    point-of-sale
    registers in conjunction with other systems in our stores enable
    us to track inventory from store receipt to final sale on a
    real-time basis. We believe our merchandising and financial
    systems, coupled with our
    point-of-sale
    registers and software programs, allow for stock replenishment,
    effective merchandise planning and real-time inventory
    accounting. See Item 1A — “Risk Factors
    — Risks Related to Our Business —
    Certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters and accounting
    changes could adversely impact our results of
    operations.”


 


    In the U.S., we utilize an automated replenishment system,
    Logility, to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment
    orders from our Retail segment and wholesale customers, the
    movement of goods through distribution channels, and the
    collection of information for planning and forecasting. We have
    a collaborative relationship with many of our suppliers that
    enables us to reduce
    cash-to-cash
    cycles in the management of our inventory.


 


    We are in the process of implementing a new global financial and
    reporting system as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and
    upgrade our operational and financial systems and processes. The
    implementation of this global system is scheduled to occur in
    phases over the next several years, and began with the migration
    of certain of our domestic human resource systems to the new
    system during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011.


 


    See Item 1A — “Risk Factors
    — Risks Related to Our Business
    — Our business could suffer if our computer
    systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate
    effectively.”


 



    Wholesale
    Credit Control


 


    We manage our own credit function. We sell our merchandise
    principally to major department stores and extend credit based
    on an evaluation of the customer’s financial capacity and
    condition, usually without requiring collateral. We monitor
    credit levels and the financial condition of our customers on a
    continuing basis to minimize credit risk. We do not factor or
    underwrite our accounts receivables, or maintain credit
    insurance to manage the risks of bad debts. Collection and
    deduction transactional activities are principally provided
    through a third party service provider. See
    Item 1A — “Risk Factors — Risks
    Related to Our Business — Our business could be
    negatively impacted by any financial instability of our
    customers.”


 



    Wholesale
    Backlog


 


    We generally receive wholesale orders for apparel products
    approximately three to five months prior to the time the
    products are delivered to stores. Such orders are generally
    subject to broad cancellation rights. As of April 2, 2011,
    our total backlog was $1.391 billion, compared to
    $1.160 billion as of April 3, 2010. We expect that
    substantially all of our backlog orders as of April 2, 2011
    will be filled within the next fiscal year. The size of our
    order backlog depends upon a number of factors, including the
    timing of the market weeks for our particular lines during which
    a significant percentage of our orders are received, and the
    timing of shipments. As a consequence, a comparison of the size
    of our order backlog from period to period may not be
    necessarily meaningful, nor may it be indicative of eventual
    shipments.


 



    Trademarks


 


    We own the “Polo,” “Ralph Lauren,”
    “Polo by Ralph Lauren Design” and the famous polo
    player astride a horse trademarks in the U.S. and
    approximately 100 countries worldwide. Other trademarks that we
    similarly own include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    “Lauren Ralph Lauren”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Lauren”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Purple Label”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Blue Label”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Black Label”;







    
    19



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    “Pink Pony”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Ralph”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “RRL”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Club Monaco”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Rugby”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “RLX”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “Chaps”;




 



     
        • 

    
    “American Living”; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Various trademarks pertaining to fragrances and cosmetics.





 


    Mr. Ralph Lauren has the royalty-free right to use as
    trademarks “Ralph Lauren,” “Double RL” and
    “RRL” in perpetuity in connection with, among other
    things, beef and living animals. The trademarks “Double
    RL” and “RRL” are currently used by the Double RL
    Company, an entity wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. In addition,
    Mr. Lauren has the right to engage in personal projects
    involving film or theatrical productions (not including or
    relating to our business) through RRL Productions, Inc., a
    company wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. Any activity by these
    companies has no impact on us.


 


    Our trademarks are the subjects of registrations and pending
    applications throughout the world for use on a variety of items
    of apparel, apparel-related products, home furnishings,
    restaurant and café services, online services and online
    publications and beauty products, as well as in connection with
    retail services, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage
    and registration of related trademarks. In general, trademarks
    remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks are used in
    connection with the related products and services and the
    required registration renewals are filed. We regard the license
    to use the trademarks and our other proprietary rights in and to
    the trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our
    products and, on a worldwide basis, vigorously seek to protect
    them against infringement (see Item 3 —
    “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion). As
    a result of the appeal of our trademarks, our products have been
    the object of counterfeiting. We have a broad enforcement
    program which has been generally effective in controlling the
    sale of counterfeit products in the U.S. and in most major
    markets abroad.


 


    In markets outside of the U.S., our rights to some or all of our
    trademarks may not be clearly established. In the course of our
    international expansion, we have experienced conflicts with
    various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in
    certain trademarks, including “Polo”
    and/or a
    representation of a polo player astride a horse, which impede
    our use and registration of our principal trademarks. While such
    conflicts are common and may arise again from time to time as we
    continue our international expansion, we have, in general,
    successfully resolved such conflicts in the past through both
    legal action and negotiated settlements with third-party owners
    of the conflicting marks (see Item 1A —
    “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our
    Business — Our trademarks and other
    intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected
    outside the U.S.” and Item 3
    — “Legal Proceedings” for further
    discussion). Although we have not in the past suffered any
    material restraints or restrictions on doing business in
    desirable markets, we cannot assure that significant impediments
    will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and
    introduce trademarks to new markets.


 



    Import
    Restrictions and Other Government Regulations


 


    Virtually all of our merchandise imported into the U.S., Canada,
    Europe, and Asia is subject to duties. In addition, most of the
    countries to which we ship could impose safeguard quotas and
    duties to protect their local industries from import surges that
    threaten to create market disruption. In this regard, effective
    July 21, 2011, safeguard duties will be imposed by Turkey
    on imports of textiles and apparel from certain countries. The
    U.S. and other countries may also unilaterally impose
    additional duties in response to a particular product being
    imported (from China or other countries) at unfairly traded
    prices that in such increased quantities as to cause (or
    threaten) injury to the relevant domestic industry (generally
    known as “anti-dumping” actions). Canada currently has
    an anti-





    
    20



Table of Contents





    dumping order on waterproof footwear under consideration. If
    dumping is suspected in the U.S., the U.S. Government may
    self-initiate a dumping case on behalf of the U.S. textile
    industry which could significantly affect our costs.
    Furthermore, additional duties, generally known as
    countervailing duties, can also be imposed by the
    U.S. Government to offset subsidies provided by a foreign
    government to foreign manufactures if the importation of such
    subsidized merchandise injures or threatens to injure a
    U.S. industry. Recent developments have now made it
    possible to impose countervailing duties on products from
    non-market economies, such as China, which could significantly
    increase our costs.


 


    We are also subject to other international trade agreements and
    regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement,
    the Central American Free Trade Agreement and the Caribbean
    Basin Initiative. In addition, each of the countries in which
    our products are sold has laws and regulations covering imports.
    Because the U.S. and the other countries in which our
    products are manufactured and sold may, from time to time,
    impose new duties, tariffs, surcharges or other import controls
    or restrictions, including the imposition of “safeguard
    quota,” or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates
    or levels, we maintain a program of intensive monitoring of
    import restrictions and opportunities. We seek to minimize our
    potential exposure to import related risks through, among other
    measures, adjustments in product design and fabrication, shifts
    of production among countries and manufacturers, as well as
    through geographical diversification of our sources of supply.


 


    As almost all our products are manufactured by foreign
    suppliers, the enactment of new legislation or the
    administration of current international trade regulations,
    executive action affecting textile agreements, or changes in
    sourcing patterns resulting from the elimination of quota could
    adversely affect our operations. Although we generally expect
    that the 2005 elimination of quotas will result, over the long
    term, in an overall reduction in the cost of apparel produced
    abroad, the implementation of any “safeguard quota
    provisions” or any “anti-dumping” or
    “countervailing duty” actions may result, over the
    near term, in cost increases and in disruption of the supply
    chain for certain products categories. See
    Item 1A — “Risk Factors — Risks
    Related to Our Business — Our business is subject to
    risks associated with importing products” and
    “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our
    Business — Our ability to conduct business in
    international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory,
    political and economic risks.”


 


    Apparel and other products sold by us are also subject to
    regulation in the U.S. and other countries by other
    governmental agencies, including, in the U.S., the Federal Trade
    Commission, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Consumer
    Products Safety Commission, including the Consumer Product
    Safety Improvement Act, which imposes new limitations on the
    permissible amounts of lead and phthalates allowed in
    children’s products. These regulations relate principally
    to product labeling, licensing requirements, flammability
    testing, and product safety particularly with respect to
    products used by children. We believe that we are in substantial
    compliance with those regulations, as well as applicable
    federal, state, local, and foreign rules and regulations
    governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the
    environment. We do not estimate any significant capital
    expenditures for environmental control matters either in the
    current fiscal year or in the near future. Our licensed products
    and licensing partners are also subject to regulation. Our
    agreements require our licensing partners to operate in
    compliance with all laws and regulations, and we are not aware
    of any violations which could reasonably be expected to have a
    material adverse effect on our business or operating results.


 


    Although we have not suffered any material restriction from
    doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot
    assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future
    as we expand product offerings and introduce additional
    trademarks to new markets.


 



    Employees


 


    As of April 2, 2011, we had approximately
    24,000 employees, both full and part-time, consisting of
    approximately 16,000 in the U.S. and approximately 8,000 in
    foreign countries. Approximately 30 of our U.S. production
    and distribution employees in the womenswear business are
    members of UNITE HERE (which was previously known as the Union
    of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, prior to its
    merger with the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees
    International Union) under an industry association collective
    bargaining agreement, which our womenswear subsidiary has
    adopted. We consider our relations with both our union and
    non-union employees to be good.




    
    21



Table of Contents






    Executive
    Officers


 


    The following are our current executive officers and their
    principal recent business experience:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	







    Ralph Lauren



 


    Age 71


 


    Mr. Lauren has been Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a
    director of the Company since prior to the Company’s
    initial public offering in 1997, and was a member of the
    Advisory Board of the Board of Directors of the Company’s
    predecessors since their organization. He founded Polo in 1967
    and has provided leadership in the design, marketing,
    advertising and operational areas since such time.





    Roger N. Farah



 


    Age 58


 


    Mr. Farah has been President, Chief Operating Officer and a
    director of the Company since April 2000. He was Chairman of the
    Board of Venator Group, Inc. from December 1994 to April 2000,
    and was Chief Executive Officer of Venator Group, Inc. from
    December 1994 to August 1999. Mr. Farah is a member of the Board
    of Directors of Aetna, Inc. and Progressive Corp.





    Jackwyn L. Nemerov



 


    Age 59


 


    Ms. Nemerov has been Executive Vice President of the Company
    since September 2004 and a director of the Company since
    February 2007. From 1998 to 2002, she was President and Chief
    Operating Officer of Jones Apparel Group, Inc.





    Tracey T. Travis



 


    Age 48


 


    Ms. Travis has been Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer of the Company since January 2005. Ms. Travis
    served as Senior Vice President, Finance of Limited Brands, Inc.
    from April 2002 until August 2004, and Chief Financial Officer
    of Intimate Brands, Inc. from April 2001 to April 2002. Prior to
    that time, Ms. Travis was Chief Financial Officer of the
    Beverage Can Americas group at American National Can from 1999
    to 2001, and held various finance and operations positions at
    Pepsi Bottling Group from 1989 to 1999. Ms. Travis is a
    member of the Board of Directors of the Lincoln Center Theater.





    Mitchell A. Kosh



 


    Age 61


 


    Mr. Kosh has served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources
    of the Company since July 2000. He was Senior Vice President of
    Human Resources of Conseco, Inc., from February 2000 to July
    2000. Prior to that time, Mr. Kosh held executive human resource
    positions with the Venator Group, Inc. starting in 1996.










    
    22



Table of Contents







    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    There are risks associated with an investment in our securities.
    The following risk factors should be read carefully in
    connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking
    statements contained in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our
    business, our prospects, our results of operations, our
    financial condition, our liquidity, the trading prices of our
    securities, and the actual outcome of matters as to which
    forward-looking statements are made in this report. Additional
    risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are
    immaterial may also affect our business operations.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 



    The loss
    of the services of Mr. Ralph Lauren or other key personnel
    could have a material adverse effect on our business.


 


    Mr. Ralph Lauren’s leadership in the design, marketing
    and operational areas of our business has been a critical
    element of our success since the inception of our Company. The
    death or disability of Mr. Lauren or other extended or
    permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or
    industry perception with respect to him or arising from his
    loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our
    other executive officers and other members of senior management
    have substantial experience and expertise in our business and
    have made significant contributions to our growth and success.
    The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these
    individuals could also have a material adverse effect on us. We
    are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar
    life insurance covering Mr. Lauren, our other executive
    officers and certain other members of senior management. We have
    entered into employment agreements with Mr. Lauren and our
    other executive officers, but the noncompete period with respect
    to Mr. Lauren and certain other executive officers could,
    in some circumstances in the event of their termination of
    employment with our Company, end prior to the employment term
    set forth in their employment agreements.


 



    Our
    business could be negatively impacted by any financial
    instability of our customers.


 


    We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department
    stores across the U.S., Europe and Asia and extend credit based
    on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition,
    usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial
    difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or
    eliminate business with that customer. We may also assume more
    credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables. In the
    aggregate, our four largest wholesale customers constituted
    approximately 30% of our gross trade accounts receivable
    outstanding as of April 2, 2011 and contributed
    approximately 40% of all wholesale revenues for Fiscal 2011. Our
    inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any
    one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition or liquidity. See
    Item 1 — “Business — Wholesale
    Credit Control.”


 



    Uncertain
    economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major
    customers and suppliers which in turn could materially adversely
    affect our operating results and liquidity.


 


    The uncertain state of the global economy is having a
    significant negative impact on businesses around the world.
    Although we believe that our cash provided by operations and
    available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility
    will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current
    economic uncertainty, the impact of economic conditions on our
    major customers and suppliers cannot be predicted and may be
    quite severe. The inability of major manufacturers to ship our
    products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date
    requirements of our customers. A disruption in the ability of
    our significant customers to access liquidity could cause
    serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their
    businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their
    future orders of our products and the inability or failure on
    their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which
    could have a material adverse effect on our operating results
    and liquidity.


 



    We cannot
    assure the successful implementation of our growth
    strategy.


 


    As part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands,
    expand our geographic coverage and increase direct management of
    our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically
    acquiring or integrating select businesses previously held by
    our licensees and enhancing our operations. Implementation of
    our strategy involves





    
    23



Table of Contents





    the continued expansion of our business in Europe, Asia and
    other international areas. As discussed in
    Item 1 — “Business — Recent
    Developments,” on January 1, 2011, we acquired our
    previously licensed Polo-branded apparel and accessories
    business in South Korea. In Fiscal 2010, we acquired our
    previously licensed Polo-branded apparel business in the
    Asia-Pacific region (excluding Japan and South Korea). In Fiscal
    2009, we acquired our previously licensed childrenswear and golf
    apparel businesses in Japan.


 


    We may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our
    operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or
    otherwise successfully managing such expansion. Furthermore, we
    may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any
    licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any
    expected cost savings or synergies from such integration.


 


    Implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation
    and expansion of our retail distribution network, both in the
    U.S. and abroad, which are subject to many factors beyond
    our control. We may not be able to procure, purchase or lease
    desirable free-standing or department store locations, or renew
    and maintain existing free-standing store leases and department
    store locations on acceptable terms, or secure suitable
    replacement locations. The lease negotiation as well as the
    number and timing of new stores actually opened during any given
    period, and their associated contribution to net income for the
    period, depends on a number of factors including, but not
    limited to: (i) the availability of suitable financing to
    us and our landlords; (ii) the timing of the delivery of
    the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to
    commence build-out construction activities; (iii) our
    ability and our landlords’ ability to obtain all necessary
    governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our
    stores on a timely basis; (iv) our ability to manage the
    construction and development costs of new stores; (v) the
    rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental
    problems with the leased premises; (vi) adverse weather
    during the construction period; and (vii) the hiring and
    training of qualified operating personnel in the local market.
    While we continue to explore new markets and are always
    evaluating new potential locations, any of the above factors
    could have an adverse impact on our financial operations.


 


    In Europe, we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we
    have in the U.S., and we may have difficulty developing
    successful distribution strategies and alliances in each of the
    major European countries. In Asia (including Japan), our primary
    mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within
    leading department stores. We may have difficulty in
    successfully retaining this network, and expanding into
    alternate distribution channels. Additionally, macroeconomic
    trends may not be favorable, and could limit our ability to
    implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we
    have foreign operations, such as Europe and Asia.


 



    Our
    business is subject to risks associated with importing
    products.


 


    As of April 2, 2011, we source a significant portion of our
    products outside the U.S. through arrangements with over
    400 foreign vendors in various countries. In Fiscal 2011, over
    98%, by dollar value, of our products were produced outside the
    U.S., primarily in Asia, Europe and South America. Risks
    inherent in importing our products include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in social, political and economic conditions or
    terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from
    the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are
    located;




 



     
        • 

    
    the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or
    exports;




 



     
        • 

    
    the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on
    imports or exports;




 



     
        • 

    
    significant fluctuations of the cost of raw materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in the cost of fuel, travel and transportation;




 



     
        • 

    
    disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by
    natural and man-made disasters;




 



     
        • 

    
    significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security
    considerations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings
    resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or
    countervailing duties; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties
    either by the U.S. or its trading partners to remedy
    perceived illegal actions by national governments.







    
    24



Table of Contents




 


    Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Our
    profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on
    margins.


 


    The apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure
    caused by many factors, including intense competition,
    consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to
    reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending
    patterns. These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices
    to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin
    to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory
    levels
    and/or
    otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in
    our operating costs. If our sales prices decline and we fail to
    sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our
    profitability will decline. This could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.


 



    Our
    business could suffer as a result of increases in the price of
    raw materials, freight or labor or a manufacturer’s
    inability to produce our goods on time and to our
    specifications.


 


    We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend
    exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of
    all of our products. Our products are manufactured to our
    specifications primarily by international manufacturers. During
    Fiscal 2011, less than 2%, by dollar value, of our men’s
    and women’s products were manufactured in the U.S. and
    over 98%, by dollar value, of these products were manufactured
    in other countries. The inability of a manufacturer to ship
    orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality
    standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements
    of our customers for those items, which could result in
    cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a
    substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations. Additionally, prices of raw materials
    used to manufacture our products may fluctuate and increases in
    prices of such raw materials could have a material adverse
    effect on our cost of sales. Furthermore, the cost of labor at
    many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing
    significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries
    continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will
    abate. The cost of transportation has been increasing as well
    and it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate if oil
    prices continue to increase and there is continued significant
    unrest in the Middle East. We may not be able to offset such
    increases in raw materials, freight or labor costs through
    pricing actions or other means.


 



    Our
    business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency
    fluctuations.


 


    We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars.
    However, we source most of our products overseas. As a result,
    the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the
    value of the relevant currencies. Changes in currency exchange
    rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign
    currency denominated prices at which our international
    businesses sell products. Furthermore, our international sales
    and licensing revenue generally is derived from sales in foreign
    currencies. These foreign currencies primarily include the
    Japanese Yen, the South Korean Won, the Euro and the British
    Pound Sterling, and this revenue could be materially affected by
    currency fluctuations. Although we hedge certain exposures to
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the
    ordinary course of business, we cannot assure that foreign
    currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on
    our financial condition and results of operations. See
    Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    — Market Risk Management.”


 



    Fluctuations
    in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in
    volatility of our operating results and stock price.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain
    foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our
    estimates of future payments, which include reserves for
    uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any
    one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various
    taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and
    negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate
    settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that
    throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our
    quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated.
    In addition, our effective tax rate in a given financial
    statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the
    mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to
    existing accounting rules or regulations.




    
    25



Table of Contents






    Our
    Company has an exclusive relationship with certain customers for
    some of our products. The loss or significant decline in
    business of any of these customers could negatively impact our
    business.


 


    We have exclusive relationships with certain customers for
    distribution of some of our products, including our American
    Living and Chaps products. Our arrangements with
    JCPenney and Kohl’s for the American Living and
    Chaps products, respectively, make us dependent on the
    financial and operational health of those companies.
    Additionally, the loss of either of these relationships could
    have an adverse effect on our Wholesale business.


 



    Our
    business could suffer as a result of consolidations,
    liquidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the
    retail industry.


 


    Several of our department store customers, including some under
    common ownership, account for significant portions of our
    wholesale net sales. A substantial portion of sales of our
    licensed products by our domestic licensing partners, including
    sales made by our sales force of Ralph Lauren Home products, are
    also made to our largest department store customers. In the
    aggregate, our four largest wholesale customers accounted for
    approximately 40% of our wholesale net sales during Fiscal 2011.
    There can be no assurance that consolidations, restructurings,
    reorganizations or other ownership changes in the department
    store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our
    wholesale business.


 


    We typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our
    customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order
    commitments with our customers for each of our lines every
    season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores
    or any other significant customer, whether motivated by
    competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to
    decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from
    us or our licensing partners; or to change their manner of doing
    business with us or our licensing partners or their new
    strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued
    focus on further development of their “private label”
    initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business or financial condition.


 



    Certain
    legal proceedings, regulatory matters and accounting changes
    could adversely impact our results of operations.


 


    We are involved in certain legal proceedings and are subject
    from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of
    contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims,
    credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail
    store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters
    and other litigations. Certain of these lawsuits and claims, if
    decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in
    material liability to our Company or have a negative impact on
    our reputation or relations with our employees, customers,
    licensees or other third parties. In addition, regardless of the
    outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such
    proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require
    that our Company devotes substantial time and resources to
    defend itself. Further, changes in governmental regulations both
    in the U.S., including potential changes in state laws regarding
    the escheatment of unredeemed gift cards, and in other countries
    where we conduct business operations could have an adverse
    impact on our results of operations. See Item 3 —
    “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion of our
    Company’s legal matters.


 


    In addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and
    interpretations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is
    currently in the process of amending a number of existing
    accounting standards governing a variety of areas. Certain of
    these proposed standards, particularly the proposed standard
    governing accounting for leases, if and when effective, would
    likely have a material impact on our consolidated financial
    statements. See Note 4 to the accompanying audited
    consolidated financial statements for further discussion of
    proposed amendments to current accounting standards.


 



    Our
    business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are
    disrupted or cease to operate effectively.


 


    Our Company relies heavily on our computer systems to record and
    process transactions and manage and operate our business. We
    also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the
    processing of basic replenishment orders from our Retail segment
    and our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through
    distribution channels, and the collection of information for
    planning and forecasting. In addition, we have





    
    26



Table of Contents





    e-commerce
    and other Internet websites in the U.S. and U.K. Given the
    complexity of our business and the significant number of
    transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is
    imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer
    hardware and software systems. Despite our preventative efforts,
    our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or
    interruption from, among other things, security breaches,
    computer viruses or power outages.


 


    We are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems
    and software. We are in the process of implementing a new global
    financial and reporting system as part of a multi-year plan to
    integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and
    processes. The implementation of this global system is scheduled
    to occur in phases over the next several years, and began with
    the migration of certain of our domestic human resource systems
    to the new global financial and reporting system during the
    fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011. This implementation effort will
    continue in the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, when certain of
    our domestic operational and financial systems will be
    transitioned to the new system. Implementation of a new global
    financial and reporting system involves risks and uncertainties.
    Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design or
    implementation of the new system could result in increased costs
    and adversely affect our ability to timely report our financial
    results, which could negatively impact our business and results
    of operations.


 



    A privacy
    breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with
    our customers, expose us to litigation risk and adversely affect
    our business.


 


    As part of our normal course of business, we collect, process
    and retain sensitive and confidential customer information.
    Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities
    and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may
    be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer
    viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming
    and/or human
    errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving
    the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of
    confidential information, whether by our Company or our vendors,
    could severely damage our reputation and our relationships with
    our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability
    and adversely affect our business.


 



    Our
    ability to conduct business in international markets may be
    affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic
    risks.


 


    Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets
    and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing
    international markets is subject to risks associated with
    international operations. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and
    regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and




 



     
        • 

    
    new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets.





 


    We are also subject to general political and economic risks in
    connection with our international operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    political instability and terrorist attacks;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets.





 


    We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other
    similar restrictions will be imposed by the U.S., the European
    Union, Asia, or other countries upon the import or export of our
    products in the future, or what effect any of these actions
    would have on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or
    economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse
    effect on our business in the future or may require us to
    significantly modify our current business practices.




    
    27



Table of Contents






    Our
    results of operations could be affected by natural events in the
    locations in which we or our customers or suppliers
    operate.


 


    We have operations, including retail, distribution and
    warehousing operations, in locations subject to natural
    disasters such as severe weather and geological events that
    could disrupt our operations. In addition, our suppliers and
    customers also have operations in these locations. Such an event
    occurred in Japan on March 11, 2011, where the northern
    region of Japan experienced a severe earthquake followed by a
    series of tsunamis, resulting in damage to the region’s
    industrial infrastructure and environmental pollution. In
    addition to the negative direct effects to the Japanese economy,
    the country’s position as a major exporter in the world may
    result in a regional or global downturn in economic activity.
    The degree to which the earthquake in Japan will have an
    economic disruption on the regional and global economies remains
    uncertain at this time; however, the impact may result in a
    decrease in the demand for our products that could have an
    adverse impact on our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Our
    trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be
    adequately protected outside the U.S.


 


    We believe that our trademarks, intellectual property and other
    proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and
    our competitive position. We devote substantial resources to the
    establishment and protection of our trademarks and
    anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. Significant
    counterfeiting of our products continues, however, and in the
    course of our international expansion we have experienced
    conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or
    claimed ownership rights in some trademarks that include Polo
    and/or a
    representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise
    have contested our rights to our trademarks. We have in the past
    resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action
    and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a
    material impact on our financial condition and results of
    operations. We cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken
    to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary
    rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material
    adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation
    of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to
    block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and
    proprietary rights of others. Also, there can be no assurance
    that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of,
    trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will
    be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our
    satisfaction or at all. In addition, the laws of certain foreign
    countries do not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights
    to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. See
    Item 1 — “Business
    — Trademarks,” and
    Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings.”


 



    Our
    business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use
    acceptable labor practices.


 


    We require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers
    to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
    While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote
    ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and
    monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do
    not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The
    violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer
    used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence
    of an independent manufacturer’s or licensing
    partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as
    ethical or appropriate in the U.S., could interrupt, or
    otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or
    damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    Our
    business could suffer if we need to replace
    manufacturers.


 


    We compete with other companies for the production capacity of
    our manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater
    financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an
    advantage in the competition for production. If we experience a
    significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer
    of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party
    manufacturing capacity. We cannot guarantee that this additional
    capacity will be available when required on terms that are
    acceptable to us. See Item 1 — “Business
    — Sourcing, Production and Quality.”
    We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each
    season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design
    and quality specifications and other standard industry
    provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any
    manufacturer. None of the manufacturers we use produce our
    products exclusively.




    
    28



Table of Contents






    We rely
    on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our
    licenses.


 


    The risks associated with our own products also apply to our
    licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks
    specific to a licensing partner’s business, including, for
    example, risks associated with a particular licensing
    partner’s ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    obtain capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    manage its labor relations;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain relationships with its suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively; and




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain relationships with its customers.





 


    Although a number of our license agreements prohibit licensing
    partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our
    competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded
    from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered
    by their license agreements with us. A substantial portion of
    sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are
    also made to our largest customers. While we have significant
    control over our licensing partners’ products and
    advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other
    things, operational and financial control over their businesses.
    Changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor
    execution or financial difficulties with respect to any of our
    licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both
    directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly
    from reduced sales of our other products. See
    Item 1 — “Business — Our
    Licensing Segment.”


 



    Failure
    to maintain licensing partners could harm our
    business.


 


    Although we believe in most circumstances we could replace
    existing licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so
    for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both
    directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly
    from reduced sales of our other products. See
    Item 1 — “Business — Our
    Licensing Segment.”


 



    The
    voting shares of our Company’s stock are concentrated in
    one majority stockholder.


 


    As of April 2, 2011, Mr. Ralph Lauren, or entities
    controlled by the Lauren family, owned approximately 76% of the
    voting power of the outstanding common stock of our Company. As
    a result, Mr. Lauren has the ability to exercise
    significant control over our business, including, without
    limitation, (i) the election of our Class B common
    stock directors, voting separately as a class, and (ii) any
    action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the
    adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and
    the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of
    our assets.


 



    The
    trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall
    based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other
    financial performance.


 


    Our business planning process is designed to maximize our
    long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an
    earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe
    that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our
    Company and our stockholders. At the same time, however, we
    recognize that from time to time it may be helpful to provide
    investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast
    of net sales and earnings. While we generally expect to provide
    updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal
    quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our
    forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. If and
    when we announce actual results that differ from those that have
    been predicted by us, outside analysts or others, the market
    price of our securities could be affected. Investors who rely on
    the predictions when making investment decisions with respect to
    our securities do so at their own risk. We take no
    responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such
    changes in the prices of our securities.




    
    29



Table of Contents






    Risks
    Relating to the Industry in Which We Compete


 



    The
    downturn in the global economy may continue to affect consumer
    purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products,
    which could adversely affect our sales.


 


    The industries in which we operate are cyclical. Many economic
    factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer
    spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance, accessories and
    home products industries, including, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general business conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    economic downturns;




 



     
        • 

    
    employment levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    downturns in the stock market;




 



     
        • 

    
    interest rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    the housing market;




 



     
        • 

    
    consumer debt levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of consumer credit;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in fuel prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    taxation; and




 



     
        • 

    
    consumer confidence in future economic conditions.





 


    Consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail
    products, including our products, may continue to decline during
    recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income
    is lower. A downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in
    which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may
    materially adversely affect our businesses and our revenues and
    profits. See Item 7 — “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Overview — Our
    Objectives and Risks” for further discussion.


 


    The domestic and international political situation also affects
    consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of
    terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to
    a decrease in consumer spending and may materially adversely
    affect our business, revenues and profits.


 



    We face
    intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry.


 


    We face a variety of intense competitive challenges from other
    domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel and casual apparel
    producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more
    diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources
    than we have. We compete with these companies primarily on the
    basis of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a
    timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty and reputation
    for quality;




 



     
        • 

    
    developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors
    and styles that appeal to consumers;




 



     
        • 

    
    appropriately sourcing raw materials at cost-effective prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    appropriately pricing products;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to anticipate and maintain proper inventory levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    providing strong and effective marketing support;




 



     
        • 

    
    creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain
    efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective
    presentation of our products at retail stores.







    
    30



Table of Contents




 


    We also face increasing competition from companies selling
    apparel and home products through the Internet. Although we sell
    our products through the Internet, increased competition in the
    worldwide apparel, accessories and home product industries from
    Internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices and
    margins and adversely affect our results of operations.


 



    The
    success of our business depends on our ability to respond to
    constantly changing fashion trends and consumer
    demands.


 


    Our success depends in large part on our ability to originate
    and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as
    to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a
    timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of
    consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with
    certainty and are subject to rapid change. We cannot assure that
    we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or
    successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the
    future. In addition, we cannot assure that any new products or
    brands that we introduce will be successfully received by
    consumers. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and
    respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion
    trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of
    our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold
    inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may be
    forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of
    excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business and
    impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate
    consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to
    supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience
    inventory shortages, which may result in unfilled orders,
    negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty
    and result in lost revenues. See Item 1 —
    “Business — Sourcing, Production and
    Quality.”






 




    
    



    
    Item 1B