Item 1A to this Annual Report under the heading “Risk Factors.”







We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable. However, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Further, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update any of them in light of new information or future events.








 


  



  

 



  







PART I











ITEM 1.


BUSINESS










Our Business




Roper Industries, Inc. (“Roper” or the “Company”) was incorporated on December 17, 1981 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We are a diversified growth company that designs, manufactures and distributes medical and scientific imaging products and software, energy systems and controls, industrial technology products and radio frequency (“RF”) products and services. We market these products and services to selected segments of a broad range of markets including RF applications, medical, water, energy, research, education, food and food services, security and other niche markets.




We pursue consistent and sustainable growth in sales and earnings by emphasizing continuous improvement in the operating performance of our existing businesses and by acquiring other carefully selected businesses that offer high value-added services, engineered products and solutions and are capable of achieving growth and maintaining high margins. We compete in many niche markets and believe that we are the market leader or a competitive alternative to the market leader in the majority of these markets.







Market Share, Market Expansion, and Product Development




Leadership with Engineered Content for Niche Markets - We maintain a leading position in many of our markets. We believe our market positions are attributable to the technical sophistication of our products, the applications expertise used to create our advanced products and systems, and our distribution and service capabilities. Our operating units grow their businesses through new product development and development of new applications and services for existing products to satisfy customer needs. In addition, our operating units grow our customer base by expanding our distribution, selling other products through our existing channels and entering adjacent markets.




Diversified End Markets and Geographic Reach - Over the past decade, we have strategically expanded the number of end markets we serve to expand our opportunities for growth. We have a global presence, with sales of products manufactured and exported from the United States (“U.S.”) and manufactured abroad and sold to customers outside the U.S. totaling $944 million in 2010.  Information regarding our international operations is set forth in Note 15 of the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.




Research and Development - We conduct applied research and development to improve the quality and performance of our products and to develop new technologies and products. Our research and development spending was $102.4 million in 2010 as compared to $83.4 and $87.4 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Research and development expense as a percentage of sales increased to 4.3% in 2010 from 4.1% in 2009. The percentage has increased as the mix of our businesses shifts to higher technology, medical and software platforms.







Our Business Segments




Our operations are reported in four segments based upon common customers, markets, sales channels, technologies and common cost opportunities. The segments are: Medical and Scientific Imaging, Energy Systems and Controls, Industrial Technology and RF Technology. Financial information about our business segments is presented in Note 15 of the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







Medical and Scientific Imaging




Our Medical and Scientific Imaging segment principally offers products and software in medical applications, high performance digital imaging products and software and handheld and vehicle mount computers. These products and solutions are provided through six U.S-based and one Canadian-based operating units. For 2010, this segment had net sales of $548.7 million, representing 23.0% of our total net sales.




Medical Products and Software - We manufacture and sell patient positioning devices for use in radiation oncology and supply diagnostic and therapeutic disposable products used in ultrasound imaging for minimally invasive medical procedures.  We also design and manufacture a non-invasive instrument for portable ultrasound bladder volume measurement and a video laryngoscope designed to enable rapid intubation even in the most difficult settings.

 

Digital Imaging Products and Software - We manufacture and sell extremely sensitive, high-performance charged couple device (“CCD”) and complementary metal oxide semiconductor (“CMOS”) cameras, detectors and related software for a variety of scientific and industrial uses, which require high resolution and/or high speed digital video, including transmission electron microscopy and spectroscopy applications. We principally sell these products for use within academic, government research, semiconductor, security and other end-user markets such as biological and material science. They are frequently incorporated into products by original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).




Handheld and Vehicle Mount Computers and Software - We manufacture and sell fully rugged handheld and vehicle mount computers for utility (principally water management) and non-utility markets.




Backlog – Our Medical and Scientific Imaging segment companies have lead times of up to several months on many of their product sales, although standard products are often shipped within two weeks of receipt of order. Blanket purchase orders are placed by certain OEM and end-users, with continuing requirements for fulfillment over specified periods of time. The segment’s backlog of firm unfilled orders, including blanket purchase orders, totaled $103.8 million at December 31, 2010, as compared to $73.7 million at December 31, 2009.




Distribution and Sales - Distribution and sales occur through direct sales personnel, manufacturers’ representatives, value added resellers (“VARs”), OEMs and distributors.







Energy Systems and Controls




Our Energy Systems and Controls segment principally produces control systems, fluid properties testing equipment, industrial valves and controls, vibration sensors and non-destructive inspection and measurement products and solutions, which are provided through six U.S.-based operating units. For 2010, this segment had net sales of $503.9 million, representing 21.1% of our total net sales.




Control Systems - We manufacture control systems and panels and provide related engineering and commissioning services for turbomachinery applications, predominately in energy markets.




Fluid Properties Testing Equipment - We manufacture and sell automated and manual test equipment to determine physical and elemental properties, such as sulfur and nitrogen content, flash point, viscosity, freeze point and distillation range of liquids and gases for the petroleum and other industries.




Industrial Valves and Controls - We manufacture and distribute a variety of valves, sensors, switches and control products used on engines, compressors, turbines and other powered equipment for the oil and gas, pipeline, power generation, marine engine and general industrial markets. Many of these products are designed for use in hazardous environments.




Sensors and Controls - We manufacture sensors and control equipment including pressure sensors, temperature sensors, measurement instruments and control software for global rubber, plastics and process industries.




Non-destructive Inspection and Measurement Instrumentation - We manufacture non-destructive inspection and measurement solutions including measurement probes, robotics, vibration sensors, switches and transmitters. These solutions are applied principally in energy markets. Many of these products are designed for use in hazardous environments.




Backlog - The Energy Systems and Controls operating units’ sales reflect a combination of standard products and large engineered projects. Standard products generally ship within two weeks of receipt of order, and large engineered projects may have lead times of several months. As such, backlog may fluctuate depending upon the timing of large project awards. This segment’s backlog of firm unfilled orders totaled $104.5 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $70.9 million at December 31, 2009.




Distribution and Sales - Distribution and sales occur through direct sales offices, manufacturers’ representatives and distributors.







Industrial Technology




Our Industrial Technology segment produces industrial pumps, equipment and consumables for materials analysis, industrial leak testing equipment, flow measurement and metering equipment and water meter and automatic meter reading (“AMR”) products and systems. These products and solutions are provided through six U.S.-based and two European-based operating units. For 2010, this segment had net sales of $607.6 million, representing 25.5% of our total net sales.




Industrial Pumps - We manufacture and distribute a wide variety of pumps. These pumps vary significantly in complexity and in pumping method employed, which allows for the movement and application of a diverse range of liquids and solids including low and high viscosity liquids, high solids content slurries and chemicals. Our pumps are used in large and diverse sets of end markets such as oil and gas, agricultural, water and wastewater, chemical and general industrial.




Materials Analysis Equipment and Consumables - We manufacture and sell equipment and supply various types of consumables necessary to prepare materials samples for testing and analysis. These products are used mostly within the academic, government research, electronics, material science, basic materials, steel and automotive end-user markets.




Industrial Leak Testing Equipment - We manufacture and sell products and systems to test for leaks and confirm the integrity of assemblies and sub-assemblies in automotive, medical and industrial applications.




Flow Measurement Equipment - We manufacture and distribute turbine and positive displacement flow meters, emissions measurement equipment and flow meter calibration products for aerospace, automotive, power generation and other industrial applications.




Water Meter and AMR Products and Systems - We manufacture and distribute several classes of water meter products serving the residential, commercial and industrial water management markets, and several lines of automatic meter reading products and systems serving these markets.




Backlog - The Industrial Technology operating units’ sales reflect a combination of standard products and specially engineered, application-specific products. Standard products are typically shipped within two weeks of receipt of order, with certain valve and pump products shipped on an immediate basis. Application-specific products typically ship within 6 to 12 weeks following receipt of order. However, larger project orders and blanket purchase orders for certain OEMs may extend shipment for longer periods. This segment’s backlog of firm unfilled orders, including blanket purchase orders, totaled $114.0 million at December 31, 2010, as compared to $52.1 million at December 31, 2009.




Distribution and Sales - Distribution and sales occur through direct sales personnel, manufacturers’ representatives and distributors.







RF Technology




Our RF Technology segment provides radio frequency identification (“RFID”) communication technology and software solutions that are used primarily in toll and traffic systems and processing, security and access control, campus card systems, software-as-a-service in the freight matching and food industries and metering and remote monitoring applications. These products and solutions are provided through six U.S.-based and one European-based operating units. This segment had sales of $725.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, representing 30.4% of our total net sales.




Toll and Traffic Systems - We manufacture and sell toll tags and monitoring systems as well as provide transaction and violation processing services for toll and traffic systems to both governmental and private sector entities. In addition, we provide intelligent traffic systems that assist customers in improving traffic flow and infrastructure utilization.




Card Systems/Integrated Security Solutions - We provide card systems and integrated security solutions to education, health care and other markets. In the education and health care markets, we also provide an integrated nutrition management solution.




Software-as-a-Service - We maintain electronic marketplaces that match 1) available capacity of trucking units with the available loads of freight to be moved from location to location throughout North America and 2) food suppliers, distributors and vendors, primarily in the perishable food sector.




Metering and Remote Monitoring - We manufacture and sell meter reading, data logging and pressure control products for use in water, gas and electricity applications.  We also provide network monitoring, leakage reduction and pressure control services in water and gas distribution networks.




Backlog - The RF Technology operating units’ sales reflect a combination of standard products, large engineered projects, and multi-year operations and maintenance contracts. Standard products generally ship within two weeks of receipt of order, and large engineered projects may have lead times of several months. As such, backlog may fluctuate depending upon the timing of large project awards. This segment’s backlog of firm unfilled orders totaled $463.1 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $368.8 million at December 31, 2009.




Distribution and Sales - Distribution and sales occur through direct sales personnel, manufacturers’ representatives and distributors.







Materials and Suppliers




We believe that most materials and supplies we use are readily available from numerous sources and suppliers throughout the world. However, some of our components and sub-assemblies are currently available from a limited number of suppliers. Some high-performance components for digital imaging products can be in short supply and/or suppliers have occasional difficulty manufacturing such components to our specifications. We regularly investigate and identify alternative sources where possible, and we believe that these conditions equally affect our competitors. Thus far, supply shortages have not had a material adverse effect on Roper’s sales although delays in shipments have occurred following such supply interruptions.







Environmental Matters and Other Governmental Regulation




Our operations and properties are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety. We use, generate and dispose of hazardous substances and waste in our operations and, as a result, could be subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and clean-up of contaminated properties and related claims. We are required to conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all countries as these requirements change. In connection with our acquisitions, we may assume significant environmental liabilities, some of which we may not be aware of, or may not be quantifiable, at the time of acquisition. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter e
nforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new requirements could increase our costs or subject us to new or increased liabilities.







Customers




No customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales for 2010 for any segment or for Roper as a whole.







Competition




Generally, our products and solutions face significant competition, usually from a limited number of competitors. We believe that we are a leader in most of our markets, and no single company competes with us over a significant number of product lines. Competitors might be large or small in size, often depending on the life cycle and maturity of the technology employed. We compete primarily on product quality, performance, innovation, technology, price, applications expertise, distribution channel access and customer service capabilities.







Patents and Trademarks




In addition to trade secrets, unpatented know-how, and other intellectual property rights, we own or license the rights under a number of patents, trademarks and copyrights relating to certain of our products and businesses. We also employ various methods, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees, to protect our trade secrets and know-how. We believe that our operating units are not substantially dependent on any single patent, trademark, copyright, or other item of intellectual property or group of patents, trademarks or copyrights.







Employees




As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 8,050 total employees, with approximately 5,870 located in the United States. Approximately 180 of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good.







Available Information




All reports filed electronically by Roper with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and our annual proxy statements, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible at no cost on our website at www.roperind.com. These filings are also accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any material Roper files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines; the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Gov
ernance Committee; and the Code of Business Conduct & Ethics are also available on the Company’s website.  Any amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers will be posted on our website within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”).




We have included the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer certifications regarding Roper’s public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 of this report. Additionally, Roper filed with the NYSE the Chief Executive Officer certification regarding Roper’s compliance with the NYSE’s Corporate Governance Listing Standards (the “Listing Standards”) pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the Listing Standards. The certification was filed with the NYSE on June 29, 2010 and indicated that the Chief Executive Officer was not aware of any violations of the Listing Standards by the Company.







ITEM 1A.                      RISK FACTORS




Risks Relating to Our Business




Our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operating flexibility.




As of December 31, 2010, we had $1.34 billion in total consolidated indebtedness. In addition, we had $468 million undrawn availability under our senior unsecured credit facility, as well as the ability to request additional term loans or revolving credit commitments not to exceed $350 million in aggregate. Our total consolidated debt could increase using this additional borrowing capacity.  Subject to restrictions contained in our credit facility, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including indebtedness incurred to finance, or which is assumed in connection with, acquisitions.




Our level of indebtedness and the debt servicing costs associated with that indebtedness could have important effects on our operations and business strategy. For example, our indebtedness could:








·  


place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources;








·  


limit our ability to borrow additional funds;








·  


limit our ability to complete future acquisitions;








·  


limit our ability to pay dividends;








·  


limit our ability to make capital expenditures; and








·  


increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions.







Our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.




Our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet the financial covenants or requirements in our credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to satisfy such covenants and requirements. A breach of these covenants or our inability to comply with the financial ratios, tests or other restrictions contained in our facility could result in an event of default under this facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facility, and the expiration of any grace periods, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, our assets may not
 be sufficient to fully repay the amounts due under this facility or our other indebtedness.




Unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly harm our business.




Several of our operating companies have transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Most of these transactions and balances are denominated in euros, Canadian dollars, British pounds and Danish krone. Sales by our operating companies whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar represented approximately 25% of our total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 23% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Unfavorable changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those currencies could significantly reduce our reported sales and earnings. At present, we do not hedge against foreign currency risks.




We export a significant portion of our products. Difficulties associated with the export of our products could harm our business.




Sales to customers outside the U.S. by our businesses located in the U.S. account for a significant portion of our net sales. These sales accounted for approximately 15% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. We are subject to risks that could limit our ability to export our products or otherwise reduce the demand for these products in our foreign markets. Such risks include, without limitation, the following:

 





·  


unfavorable changes in or noncompliance with U.S. and other jurisdictions’ export requirements;








·  


restrictions on the export of technology and related products;








·  


unfavorable changes in or noncompliance with U.S. and other jurisdictions’ export policies to certain countries;








·  


unfavorable changes in the import policies of our foreign markets; and








·  


a general economic downturn in our foreign markets.







The occurrence of any of these events could reduce the foreign demand for our products or could limit our ability to export our products and, therefore, could have a material negative effect on our future sales and earnings.




Economic, political and other risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our business.




As of and for the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 26% of our net sales and 18% of our long-lived assets, excluding goodwill and intangibles, were attributable to operations outside the U.S. We expect our international operations to contribute materially to our business for the foreseeable future. Our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the U.S. including, without limitation, the following:


 





  


·


adverse changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets;








  


·


trade protection measures and import or export requirements;








  


·


subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that are currently, or may emerge as, competitors in countries in which we have operations;








  


·


partial or total expropriation;








  


·


potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws;








  


·


difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;








  


·


differing labor regulations;








  


·


differing protection of intellectual property;








  


·


unexpected changes in regulatory requirements.







The occurrence of any of these events could materially harm our business.




Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully.




Our future growth is likely to depend to some degree on our ability to acquire and successfully integrate new businesses. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets. There are no assurances, however, that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain financing on acceptable terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses or expand into new markets. Once acquired, operations may not achieve anticipated levels of revenues or profitability.




Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there are no assurances that we will properly ascertain all such risks. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. Difficulties encountered with acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Product liability, insurance risks and increased insurance costs could harm our operating results.




Our business exposes us to product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacturing and distribution of our products. In addition, certain of our products are used in hazardous environments. We currently have product liability insurance; however, we may not be able to maintain our insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. We also maintain other insurance policies, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. Our insurance costs increased in prior periods and may continue to increase in the future. We believe that we have adequately accrued estimated losses, principally related to deductible amounts under our insurance policies, with respect to all product liability and other claims, based upon our past experience and available facts. However, a successful 
product liability or other claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant increase in our insurance costs could have an adverse impact on our operating results.




Our operating results could be adversely affected by a reduction of business with our large customers.




In some of our businesses, we derive a significant amount of revenue from large customers. The loss or reduction of any significant contracts with any of these customers could materially reduce our revenue and cash flows. Additionally, many of our customers are government entities. In many situations, government entities can unilaterally terminate or modify our existing contracts without cause and without penalty to the government agency.




We face intense competition. If we do not compete effectively, our business may suffer.




We face intense competition from numerous competitors. Our products compete primarily on the basis of product quality, performance, innovation, technology, price, applications expertise, system and service flexibility and established customer service capabilities. We may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts or with all of our competitors. In addition, new competitors may emerge, and product lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of these product lines. To remain competitive, we must develop new products, respond to new technologies and periodically enhance our existing products in a timely manner. We anticipate that we may have to adjust prices of many of our products to stay competitive.




Changes in the supply of, or price for, raw materials, parts and components used in our products could affect our business.




The availability and prices of raw materials, parts and components are subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Some high-performance components for digital imaging products may be in short supply and/or suppliers may have occasional difficulty manufacturing these components to meet our specifications. In addition, some of our products are provided by sole source suppliers. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these parts and components, as well as any increases in commodity prices, particularly copper, could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could increase our expenses and adversely affect our financial condition.




Our operations and properties are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including air emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety. These laws and regulations can result in the imposition of substantial fines and sanctions for violations and could require the installation of pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We must conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate as these requirements change.




We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations and, as a result, could be subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and clean-up of contaminated properties and to claims alleging personal injury. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, costs relating to compliance with environmental laws and regulations. In connection with our acquisitions, we may assume significant environmental liabilities, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse e
ffect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Some of the industries in which we operate are cyclical, and, accordingly, our business is subject to changes in the economy.




Some of the business areas in which we operate are subject to specific industry and general economic cycles. Certain businesses are subject to industry cycles, including but not limited to, the industrial and energy markets. Accordingly, any downturn in these or other markets in which we participate could materially adversely affect us. If demand changes and we fail to respond accordingly, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected in any given quarter. The business cycles of our different operations may occur contemporaneously. Consequently, the effect of an economic downturn may have a magnified negative effect on our business.




Our intangible assets are valued at an amount that is high relative to our total assets, and a write-off of our intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization.




Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. At December 31, 2010, goodwill totaled $2.73 billion compared to $2.75 billion of stockholders’ equity, which was 54% of our total assets of $5.07 billion. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets we have acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has been an impairment in the value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge or if business valuations decline, we could incur a non-cash charge to operating earnings. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would negatively
 affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material.




We depend on our ability to develop new products, and any failure to develop or market new products could adversely affect our business.




The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance existing products so that our products can be sold with high margins. This product development may require substantial internal investment. There can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products or that we will otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products. Failure of our products to gain market acceptance or our failure to successfully develop and market new products could reduce our margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Our technology is important to our success and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage.




Many of our products rely on proprietary technology; therefore we believe that the development and protection of intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality agreements and other contractual provisions is important to the future success of our business. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology.  Current and future actions to enforce these rights may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and we make no assurances that any such actions will be successful.




Any business disruptions due to political instability, armed hostilities, incidents of terrorism or natural disasters could adversely impact our financial performance.




If terrorist activity, armed conflict, political instability or natural disasters occur in the U.S. or other locations, such events may negatively impact our operations, cause general economic conditions to deteriorate or cause demand for our products to decline. A prolonged economic slowdown or recession could reduce the demand for our products, and therefore, negatively affect our future sales and profits. Any of these events could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.







ITEM 1B