ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 


Risks Relating to Our
Business 


Our indebtedness may
affect our business and may restrict our operating flexibility. 


As of December 31, 2005, we had
approximately $894 million in total consolidated indebtedness. In addition, we had
approximately $315 million undrawn availability under our senior secured credit
facility. Our total consolidated debt could increase using this additional borrowing
capacity. Subject to certain restrictions contained in our senior secured credit
facility and other debt agreements, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future,
including indebtedness incurred to finance, or which is assumed in connection with,
acquisitions. 


Our level of indebtedness and the
debt servicing costs associated with that indebtedness could have important effects on our
operations and business strategy. For example, our indebtedness could: 



limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we compete;  
place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors, some of which have lower debt
service obligations and greater financial resources than us; 
limit our ability to borrow additional funds; 
limit our ability to complete future acquisitions; 
limit our ability to pay dividends; 
limit our ability to make capital expenditures; and 
increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. 




Our ability to make scheduled
payments of principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to
satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance,
which may be affected by factors beyond our control. In addition, there can be no
assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable
terms for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our
indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be
materially adversely affected. 


In addition, our  senior secured
credit facility contains financial covenants requiring us to achieve certain financial and
operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to
meet the financial covenants or requirements in our  senior secured credit facility may
be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to satisfy such covenants
and requirements. A breach of these covenants or our inability to comply with the
financial ratios, tests or other restrictions contained in our  senior secured credit
facility could result in an event of default under this facility, which in turn could
result in an event of default under the terms of our other indebtedness. Upon the
occurrence of an event of default under our  senior secured credit facility, and the
expiration of any grace periods, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts
outstanding under the facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and
payable. If this were to occur, our assets may not be sufficient to fully repay the
amounts due under this facility or our other indebtedness. 


Unfavorable changes in
foreign exchange rates may significantly harm our business. 


Several of our operating companies
have transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Most
of these transactions and balances are denominated in euros, Canadian dollars, British
pounds, Danish krone and Japanese yen. Sales by our operating companies whose functional
currency is not the U.S. dollar represented approximately 25% of our total net sales for
the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 31% for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Unfavorable changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those currencies could
significantly reduce our reported sales and earnings. At present, we do not hedge against
foreign currency risks. 


We export a significant portion
of our products. Difficulties associated with the export of our products could harm our
business.


Sales to customers outside the U.S.
by our businesses located in the U.S. account for a significant portion of our net sales.
These sales accounted for approximately 16% and 19% of our net sales for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. We are subject to risks that could
limit our ability to export our products or otherwise reduce the demand for these products
in our foreign markets. Such risks include, without limitation, the following: 




unfavorable changes in or noncompliance with U.S. and other jurisdictions' export requirements;
restrictions on the export of technology and related products;
unfavorable changes in or noncompliance with U.S. and other jurisdictions' export policies to certain countries;
unfavorable changes in the import policies of our foreign markets; and
a general economic downturn in our foreign markets.





The occurrence of any of these
events could reduce the foreign demand for our products or could limit our ability to
export our products and, therefore, could materially negatively affect our future sales
and earnings.  


Economic, political and
other risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our
business. 


As of December 31, 2005,
approximately 16% of our long-lived assets, excluding goodwill and intangibles were
attributable to operations outside the U.S. We expect our international operations to
continue to contribute materially to our business for the foreseeable future. Our
international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business
outside the U.S. including, without limitation, the following: 



adverse changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging
markets; 
trade protection measures and import or export requirements; 
trade liberalization measures which could expose our international operations to increased
competition; 
subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently, or may emerge, as competitors in countries in which we have operations;
partial or total expropriation;
potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws;
difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;
differing labor regulations;
differing protection of intellectual property;
unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;
longer payment cycles of foreign
customers and difficulty in collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; and 
international sentiment towards the U.S. 






The occurrence of any of these events
could materially harm our business. 


Our growth strategy
includes acquisitions. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates,
complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully. 


Our historical growth has depended,
and our future growth is likely to continue to depend, to some degree on our
ability to make acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired businesses. We intend
to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets
and to enhance our position in existing markets globally. There are no assurances, however,
that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate
acquisition terms, obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, complete proposed
acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or
expand into new markets. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of
revenues, profitability or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing
operations, or otherwise perform as expected. 


Acquisitions involve numerous risks,
including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and
products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from
other business concerns. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks
inherent in any particular transaction, there are no assurances that we will properly
ascertain all such risks. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future
acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and
other expenses. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of
equity securities. We cannot assure you that difficulties encountered with acquisitions
will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations. 


Product liability,
insurance risks and increased insurance costs could harm our operating results. 


Our business exposes us to potential
product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacturing and distribution of
our products. In addition, certain of our products are used in potentially hazardous
environments. We currently have product liability insurance; however, we may not be able
to maintain our insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us
against potential losses. We also maintain other insurance policies, including directors
and officers’ liability insurance. Our insurance costs increased in recent periods
and may continue to increase in the future. We believe that we have adequately accrued
estimated losses, principally related to deductible amounts under our insurance policies,
with respect to all product liability and other claims, based upon our past experience and
available facts. However, a successful product liability or other claim or series of
claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant increase in our insurance
costs could have an adverse impact on our operating results. 


Our operating results
could be adversely affected by a reduction of business with our large customers. 


We derive a significant amount of
revenue from larger customers. The loss or reduction of any significant contracts with any
of these customers could materially reduce our revenue and cash flows. Additionally, many
of our customers are government entities. Government entities can unilaterally terminate
or modify our existing contracts without cause and without penalty to the government
agency. 


We face intense
competition. If we do not compete effectively, our business may suffer. 


We face intense competition from
numerous competitors. Our products compete primarily on the basis of product quality,
performance, innovation, technology, price, applications expertise, system and service
flexibility and established customer service capabilities with existing customers. We may
not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts or with all of our competitors.
In addition, new competitors may emerge, and product lines may be threatened by new
technologies or market trends that reduce the value of these product lines. To remain
competitive, we must develop new products, respond to new technologies and periodically
enhance our existing products in a timely manner. We anticipate that we may have to adjust
prices of many of our products to stay competitive. 


Changes in the supply of,
or price for, parts and components used in our products could affect our business. 


We purchase many parts and components
from suppliers. The availability and prices of parts and components are subject to
curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other
purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and
prevailing price levels. Some high-performance components for digital imaging products may
be in short supply and/or suppliers may have occasional difficulty manufacturing these
components to meet our specifications. In addition, some of our products are provided by
sole source suppliers. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these parts and
components could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 


Environmental compliance
costs and liabilities could increase our expenses and adversely affect our financial
condition. 


Our operations and properties are
subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental
protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges,
waste management and workplace safety. These laws and regulations can result in the
imposition of substantial fines and sanctions for violations and could require the
installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit
pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance
releases. We must conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to
regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate as these requirements change. 


We use and generate hazardous
substances and wastes in our operations and, as a result, could be subject to potentially
material liabilities relating to the investigation and clean-up of contaminated properties
and to claims alleging personal injury. We have experienced, and expect to continue to
experience, costs relating to compliance with environmental laws and regulations. In
connection with our acquisitions, we may assume significant environmental liabilities,
some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. In addition, new laws and
regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of
previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could
require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 


Some of the industries in
which we operate are cyclical, and, accordingly, our business is subject to changes in
the economy. 


Some of the business areas in which
we operate are subject to specific industry and general economic cycles. Certain
businesses are subject to industry cycles, including but not limited to, the industrial
and semiconductor markets. Accordingly, any downturn in these or other markets in which we
participate could materially adversely affect us. If demand changes and we fail to respond
accordingly, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected in any given
quarter. The business cycles of our different operations may occur contemporaneously.
Consequently, the effect of an economic downturn may have a magnified negative effect on
our business. 


Our intangible assets are
valued at an amount that is high relative to our total assets, and a write-off of our
intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total
capitalization. 


Our total assets reflect substantial
intangible assets, primarily goodwill. At December 31, 2005, goodwill totaled
approximately $1.35 billion compared to approximately $1.25 billion of stockholders’
equity, which was approximately 54% of our total assets of approximately $2.52 billion.
The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair
value of the net assets we have acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has
been an impairment in the value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance
at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if
competing or alternative technologies emerge or if business valuations become more
conservative, we could incur, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge
to operating earnings for goodwill impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off
of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our
results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. 


We depend on our
abilities to develop new products. 


The future success of our business
will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products
and to enhance existing products so that our products can be sold with high margins. This
product development may require substantial investment by us. There can be no assurance
that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or
market acceptance of new technologies or products or that we will otherwise be able to
successfully develop and market new products. Failure of our products to gain market
acceptance or our failure to successfully develop and market new products could reduce our
margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 


Our technology is
important to our success and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a
competitive disadvantage. 


Because many of our products rely on
proprietary technology, we believe that the development and protection of intellectual
property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality
agreements and other contractual provisions is important to the future success of our
business. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or
competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. The steps we
have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign
countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S.
Current and future actions to enforce these rights may result in substantial costs and
diversion of resources and we make no assurances that any such actions will be successful. 


Any business disruptions
due to political instability, armed hostilities, incidents of terrorism or natural
disasters couldadversely impact our financial performance. 


If terrorist activity, armed
conflict, political instability or natural disasters occur in the U.S. or other locations,
such events may negatively impact our operations, cause general economic conditions in the
U.S. and abroad to deteriorate or cause world-wide demand for U.S. products to decline. A
prolonged economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or in other areas of the world could
reduce the demand for our products, and therefore, negatively affect our future sales and
profits. Any of these events could have a significant impact on our business, financial
condition or results of operations and may result in the volatility of the market price of
our common stock. 







ITEM 1B