ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for
fiscal 2011, and information we provide in our Annual Report to Stockholders,
press releases, telephonic reports, and other investor communications, including
those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with
respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance,
operations, and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties
that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those
forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. Refer to
Management’s Discussion and Analysis for a more complete identification and
discussion of “Forward-Looking Statements.” 
Our financial condition, results
of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be
adversely affected by a number of risk factors. Risks and uncertainties that
apply to both Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS include, without limitation, the
following: 
We are subject to the economic
and industry risks that affect large retailers operating in the United States.

Our business is exposed to the
risks of a large, multi-store retailer, which must continually and efficiently
obtain and distribute a supply of fresh merchandise throughout a large and
growing network of stores. These risk factors include: 

  An increase in the level of competitive pressures
  in the apparel or home-related merchandise industry. 
  Changes in the level of consumer spending on or
  preferences for apparel or home-related merchandise. 
  The impact from the macro-economic environment and
  financial and credit markets including but not limited to interest rates,
  recession, inflation, deflation, energy costs, tax rates and policy,
  unemployment trends, and fluctuating commodity costs. 
  Changes in geopolitical and geoeconomic
  conditions. 
  Unseasonable weather trends that could affect
  consumer demand for seasonal apparel and apparel-related
  products. 
  A change in the availability, quantity, or quality
  of attractive brand name merchandise at desirable discounts that could impact
  our ability to purchase product and continue to offer customers a wide
  assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. 
  Potential disruptions in the supply chain that
  could impact our ability to deliver product to our stores in a timely and
  cost-effective manner. 
  A change in the availability, quality, or cost of
  new store real estate locations. 
  A downturn in the economy or a natural disaster in
  California or in another region where we have a concentration of stores or a
  distribution center. Our corporate headquarters, Los Angeles buying office,
  two distribution centers, one warehouse, and 26% of our stores are located in
  California.
We are subject to operating
risks as we attempt to execute on our merchandising and growth strategies.

The continued success of our
business depends, in part, upon our ability to increase sales at our existing
store locations, to open new stores, and to operate stores on a profitable
basis. Our existing strategies and store expansion programs may not result in a
continuation of our anticipated revenue or profit growth. In executing our
off-price retail strategies and working to improve efficiencies, expand our
store network, and reduce our costs, we face a number of operational risks,
including: 
8




  Our ability to attract and retain personnel with
  the retail talent necessary to execute our strategies. 
  Our ability to effectively operate our various
  supply chain, core merchandising, and other information
  systems. 
  Our ability to improve our merchandising
  capabilities through implementation of new processes and systems
  enhancements. 
  Our ability to improve new store sales and
  profitability, especially in newer regions and markets. 
  Our ability to achieve and maintain targeted
  levels of productivity and efficiency in our distribution
  centers. 
  Our ability to lease or acquire acceptable new
  store sites with favorable demographics and long-term financial
  returns. 
  Our ability to identify and to successfully enter
  new geographic markets. 
  Our ability to achieve planned gross margins by
  effectively managing inventories, markdowns, and shrink. 
  Our ability to effectively manage all operating
  costs of the business, the largest of which are payroll and benefit costs for
  store and distribution center employees.
ITEM 1B