Item 1A.     Risk Factors. 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2006, and information we provide in our Annual Report to Stockholders, press releases, telephonic reports and other investor communications, including those on our website, may contain a number of forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance, operations and competitive position that are subject to risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. Refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of “Forward-Looking Statements.” 

Our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. Risks and uncertainties that apply to both Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS include, without limitation, the following:

5






We are subject to the economic and industry risks that affect large United States retailers. 

Our business is exposed to the risks of a large, multi-store retailer, which must continually and efficiently obtain and distribute a supply of fresh merchandise throughout a large and growing network of stores. These risks include a number of factors, including: 


An increase in the level of competitive pressures in the retail apparel or home-related merchandise industry.
Potential changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel or home-related merchandise, including the potential impact from higher gas prices and/or lower home prices on consumer spending. 
Potential changes in geopolitical and/or general economic conditions that could affect the availability of product and/or the level of consumer spending. 
Unseasonable weather trends that could affect consumer demand for seasonal apparel and apparel-related products. 
A change in the availability, quantity or quality of attractive brand-name merchandise at desirable discounts that could impact our ability to purchase product and continue to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. 
Potential disruptions in the supply chain that could impact our ability to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. 
A change in the availability, quality or cost of new store real estate locations. 
A downturn in the economy or a natural disaster in California or in another region where we have a concentration of stores or a distribution center. Our corporate headquarters, two distribution centers and 28% of our stores are located in California.
Potential pressure on freight costs from higher-than-expected fuel surcharges. 
We are subject to operating risks as we attempt to execute our merchandising and growth strategies. 

The continued success of our business depends, in part, upon our ability to increase sales at our existing store locations, and to open new stores and to operate stores on a profitable basis. Our existing strategies and store expansion programs may not result in a continuation of our anticipated revenue growth or profit growth. In executing our off-price retail strategies and working to improve our efficiency, expand our store network, and reduce our costs, we face a number of operational risks, including: 


Our ability to attract and retain personnel with the retail expertise necessary to execute our strategies. 
Our ability to effectively implement and operate our various supply chain, core merchandising and other information systems, including generation of all necessary data and reports for merchants, allocators and other business users in a timely and cost-effective manner. 
Our ability to successfully implement new processes and systems enhancements that are expected to improve our merchandising capabilities over the next few years with the goal of being able to plan, buy and allocate product at a more local versus regional level. 
Our ability to improve new store sales and profitability, especially in newer regions and markets. 
Our ability to achieve and maintain targeted levels of productivity and efficiency in our distribution centers. 
Our ability to continue to acquire or lease acceptable new store locations. 
Our ability to identify and to successfully enter new geographic markets. 
Lower than planned gross margin, including higher than planned markdowns, inventory shortage or freight costs. 
Greater than planned operating costs including, among other factors, increases in occupancy costs, advertising costs, and wage and benefit costs, including the impact of changes in labor laws or as a result of class action or other lawsuits relating to wage and hour claims and other labor-related matters. 
Our ability to convert certain former Albertsons real estate sites to the Ross and dd’s DISCOUNTS formats in a timely and cost-effective manner and on acceptable terms, and the ability to achieve targeted levels of sales, profits and cash flows from these acquired store locations. 
6








Item 1B