ITEM 1A.
     
    RISK FACTORS




     We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The
following summarizes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties, which may adversely affect
our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could also be impacted by
additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be
immaterial.


Risks Related to Our Business



Volatility of oil and gas prices significantly affects our cash flow and capital resources and
could hamper our ability to produce oil and gas economically



     Oil and gas prices are volatile, and a decline in prices adversely affects our profitability
and financial condition. The oil and gas industry is typically cyclical, and prices for oil and
gas have been volatile. Historically, the industry has experienced downturns characterized by
oversupply and/or weak demand. Long-term supply and demand for oil and gas is uncertain and
subject to a myriad of factors such as:






     
    •
     
    the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas;



     

     
    •
     
    the price and availability of alternative fuels;



     

     
    •
     
    weather conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    the level of consumer demand;



     

     
    •
     
    the price of foreign imports;



     

     
    •
     
    worldwide economic conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities and processing
facilities;



     

     
    •
     
    the effect of worldwide energy conservation efforts;



     

     
    •
     
    political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and



     

     
    •
     
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes.





     Oil and gas prices have been volatile over the past 18 months. In July 2008, the average New
York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) price of oil was $133.49 per barrel and the average NYMEX price
of gas was $12.96 per mcf. In December 2008, the average NYMEX price of oil had fallen to $42.04
per barrel and gas was $6.56 per mcf. In 2009, oil prices rebounded to $74.60 per barrel as of
December 31, 2009, while gas prices remained depressed at $4.46 per mcf. Decreases in oil and gas
prices have adversely affected our revenues, net income, cash flow and proved reserves.
Significant price decreases could have a material adverse effect on our operations and limit our
ability to fund capital expenditures. Without the ability to fund capital expenditures, we would
be unable to replace reserves and production. Sustained decreases in oil and gas prices will
further adversely affect our revenues, net income, cash flows, proved reserves and our ability to
fund capital expenditures.


Information concerning our reserves and future net cash flow estimates is uncertain



     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas
reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of proved reserves
are by their nature uncertain. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual
production, revenues and costs to develop will likely vary from estimates and these variances could
be material.


     Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered
from underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be directly measured. As a result,
different petroleum engineers, each using industry-accepted geologic and engineering practices and
scientific methods, may calculate different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based
on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of oil and gas reserve estimates,
each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated:






     
    •
     
    the amount and timing of oil and gas production;



     

     
    •
     
    the revenues and costs associated with that production; and



     

     
    •
     
    the amount and timing of future development expenditures.





10




Table of Contents



     The discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves included in this report should
not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. For 2009, as
required by generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues
from our proved reserves are based on a twelve month average price (beginning of month) while cost
estimates are as of the end of the year. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher
or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate
discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting
principles is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in
effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in
general.


If oil and gas prices decrease or drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to record
write downs of our oil and gas properties



     In the past we have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our oil and
gas properties, and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional writedowns in the
future. Writedowns may occur when oil and gas prices are low, or if we have downward adjustments
to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of operating or development costs,
deterioration in our drilling results or mechanical problems with wells where the cost to redrill
or repair is not supported by the economics.


     Accounting rules require that the carrying value of oil and gas properties be periodically
reviewed for possible impairment. Impairment is recognized when the book value of a proven
property is greater than the expected undiscounted future net cash flows from that property and on
acreage when conditions indicate the carrying value is not recoverable. We may be required to
write down the carrying value of a property based on oil and gas prices at the time of the
impairment review, or as a result of continuing evaluation of drilling results, production data,
economics and other factors. While an impairment charge reflects our long-term ability to recover
an investment, it does not impact cash or cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce
our reported earnings and increases our leverage ratios.


     We acquire significant amounts of unproved property to further our development efforts.
Development and exploratory drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including
the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We acquire both producing
and unproved properties as well as lease undeveloped acreage that we believe will enhance growth
potential and increase our earnings over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects
will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally,
there can be no assurance that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us
will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be
productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property
or wells.


Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves



     Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital
expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash
flow from operations, our bank credit facility and debt and equity issuances. From time to time,
we have also engaged in asset monetization transactions. Future cash flows are subject to a number
of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and gas and our
success in developing and producing new reserves. If our access to capital were limited due to
numerous factors, which could include a decrease in revenues due to lower gas and oil prices or
decreased production or deterioration of the credit and capital markets, we would have a reduced
ability to replace our reserves. We may not be able to incur additional bank debt, issue debt or
equity, engage in asset monetization or access other methods of financing on an economic basis to
meet our reserve replacement requirements.


     The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing
base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is
subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such
time. The decline in oil and gas prices in 2008 has adversely impacted the value of our estimated
proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing
base. If commodity prices (particularly gas prices) continue to decline in 2010, it will have
similar adverse effects on our reserves and borrowing base.


Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that we produce



     Because the rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are
depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to economically find or acquire and produce
additional oil and gas reserves. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties
containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through
engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our
proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future oil and gas production, therefore,
is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves that are
economically recoverable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find or acquire and develop
additional reserves at an acceptable cost.


11




Table of Contents



Our indebtedness could limit our ability to successfully operate our business



     We are leveraged and our exploration and development program will require substantial capital
resources depending on the level of drilling and the expected cost of services. Our existing
operations will also require ongoing capital expenditures. In addition, if we decide to pursue
additional acquisitions, our capital expenditures will increase, both to complete such acquisitions
and to explore and develop any newly acquired properties.


     The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important consequences, including the
following:






     
    •
     
    we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations
to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our operations;



     

     
    •
     
    a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, making us vulnerable to
increases in interest rates;



     

     
    •
     
    we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a
competitive disadvantage;



     

     
    •
     
    our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the
general economy;



     

     
    •
     
    we are subject to numerous financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our
existing credit agreements the breach of which could materially and adversely impact our
financial performance;



     

     
    •
     
    our debt level could limit our flexibility to grow the business and in planning for, or
reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and



     

     
    •
     
    we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future.





     Despite our current levels of indebtedness, we still may be able to incur substantially more
debt. This could further increase the risks described above. In addition to those risks above, we
may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit
and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. In
particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased
substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished
significantly.


Our business is subject to operating hazards that could result in substantial losses or liabilities
that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies



     Oil and gas operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, craterings,
explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with
abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic natural gas and other
environmental hazards and risks. If any of these hazards occur, we could sustain substantial
losses as a result of:






     
    •
     
    injury or loss of life;



     

     
    •
     
    severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;



     

     
    •
     
    pollution or other environmental damage;



     

     
    •
     
    clean-up responsibilities;



     

     
    •
     
    regulatory investigations and penalties; or



     

     
    •
     
    suspension of operations.





     We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may
elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive
relative to the risks presented. We have experienced substantial increases in premiums, especially
in areas affected by hurricanes and tropical storms. Insurers have imposed revised limits
affecting how much the insurers will pay on actual storm claims plus the cost to re-drill wells
where substantial damage has been incurred. Insurers are also requiring us to retain larger
deductibles and reducing the scope of what insurable losses will include. Even with the increase
in future insurance premiums, coverage will be reduced, requiring us to bear a greater potential
risk if our oil and gas properties are damaged. We do not maintain any business interruption
insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a
significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could have a
material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations.


12




Table of Contents



We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks



     Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of
and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in our credit rating. These
changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition
opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For
example, at December 31, 2009, approximately 81% of our debt is at fixed interest rates with the
remaining 19% subject to variable interest rates.


     Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global finance markets may lead to a
contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require
continued access to capital; a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the
availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned
growth and operating results. We are exposed to some credit risk related to our senior credit
facility to the extent that one or more of our lenders may be unable to provide necessary funding
to us under our existing revolving line of credit if it experiences liquidity problems.


Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially
adversely affect our business and results of operations



     Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and
volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues,
along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk
and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult
to obtain financing. In addition, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets
generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of accessing the credit markets
generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates,
enacted tighter lending standards and limited the amount of funding available to borrowers.


     As a result, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our current credit facility
because (i) our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations
or (ii) the amount we may borrow under our current credit facility could be reduced as a result of
lower oil, natural gas liquids or gas prices, declines in reserves, stricter lending requirements
or regulations, or for other reasons. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will
be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on
unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of
business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material
adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations.


Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks



     To manage our exposure to price risk, we, from time to time, enter into hedging arrangements,
utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a significant portion of our future production.
The goal of these hedges is to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and increase the
predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices
rise above the price established by the hedge.


     In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain
circumstances, including instances in which:






     
    •
     
    our production is less than expected;



     

     
    •
     
    the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or



     

     
    •
     
    an event materially impacts oil or gas prices or the relationship between the hedged
price index and the oil and gas sales price.





     We cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we may enter into will adequately protect
us from declines in the prices of oil and gas. On the other hand, where we choose not to engage in
hedging transactions in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in oil and gas
prices than our competitors who engage in hedging transactions.


Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we have and we may not be
able to successfully compete in acquiring, exploring and developing new properties



     We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, acquiring
reserves and leases, obtaining goods, services and employees needed to operate and manage our
business and marketing oil and gas. Competitors include multinational oil companies, independent
production companies and individual producers and operators. Many of our


13




Table of Contents



competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors
may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can or weather industry
downturns more easily than we can.



The demand for field services and their ability to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill
and produce our oil and natural gas properties



     In a rising price environment, such as those experienced in 2007 and early 2008,
well service providers and related equipment and personnel are in short supply. This caused
escalating prices, the possibility of poor services coupled with potential damage to downhole
reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures increase the actual cost of services, extend the
time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to accidents sustained from the over use
of equipment and inexperienced personnel. In some cases, we are operating in areas where services
and infrastructure are limited, or do not exist or in urban areas which are more restrictive.


A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local
regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of
our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase



     Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (“NGA”) exempts natural gas gathering facilities
from regulation by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas
pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a
pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the
distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering
services is the subject of on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our
gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or
Congress.


     While our natural gas gathering operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the
NGA, our gas gathering operations may be subject to certain FERC reporting and posting requirements
in a given year. FERC has recently issued a final rule (as amended by orders on rehearing, “Order
704”) requiring certain participants in the natural gas market, including certain gathering
facilities and natural gas marketers that engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or
purchases, to submit annual reports regarding those transactions to FERC. In addition, FERC has
issued a final rule (“Order 720”) requiring major non-interstate pipelines, defined as certain
non-interstate pipelines delivering more than an average of 50 million MMBtu of gas over the
previous three calendar years, to post daily certain information regarding the pipeline’s capacity
and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has design capacity equal to or
greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day.


     Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products
derived from these businesses. FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas
regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas
quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the
intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its
regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will
continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipelines rates and rules and policies that
may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. For more information regarding the
regulation of our operations, please see “Government Regulation” in Item 1 of this report.


Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and
orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines



     Under the EPAct 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for
current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits
associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated as a natural gas
company by FERC under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of four
otherwise non-FERC jurisdiction facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and
capacity posting requirements. We also must comply the anti-market manipulation rules enforced by
FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or
adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could
subject Range to civil penalty liability. For more information regarding regulation of our
operations, please see “Government Regulation” in Item 1 of this report.


The oil and gas industry is subject to extensive regulation



     The oil and gas industry is subject to various types of regulations in the United States by
local, state and federal agencies. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for
amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Numerous departments and
agencies, both state and federal, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding
on participants in the oil and gas industry. Compliance with such rules and regulations often
increases our cost of doing business, delays our operations and, in turn, decreases our
profitability.


14




Table of Contents



     Our operations are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state and local laws,
regulations and enforcement policies relating to the environment. We may incur significant costs
and liabilities in complying with existing or future environmental laws, regulations and
enforcement policies and may incur costs arising out of property damage or injuries to employees
and other persons. These costs may result from our current and former operations and even may be
caused by previous owners of property we own or lease. Any past, present or future failure by us
to completely comply with environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could cause us
to incur substantial fines, sanctions or liabilities from cleanup costs or other damages.
Incurrence of those costs or damages could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration,
development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses.


     Climate change is receiving increasing attention from scientists and legislators alike. The
debate is ongoing as to the extent to which our climate is changing, the potential causes of this
change and its potential impacts. Some attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse
gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to
limit greenhouse gas emissions.


     Presently there are no federally mandated greenhouse gas reduction requirements in the United
States. However, in June 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives passed bill H.R. 2454, American
Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, which proposes reducing greenhouse gas emissions to 17%
below 2005 levels by 2020 and 83% below 2005 levels by 2050. The bill has now passed to the United
States Senate for debate and vote. Consequently, the precise federal mandatory emissions reduction
program that may be adopted and the specific requirements of any such program are uncertain.


     There are a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas
emissions, which are in various phase of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and
state actions to address global climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs
including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or
other regulatory actions. These actions could:






     
    •
     
    result in increased costs associated with our operations;



     

     
    •
     
    increase other costs to our business;



     

     
    •
     
    affect the demand for natural gas, and



     

     
    •
     
    impact the prices we charge our customers.





     Any adoption by federal or state governments mandating a substantial reduction in greenhouse
gas emissions could have far-reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry and the U.S.
economy. We cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations on our future
consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration
and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.



     Among the changes contained in President Obama’s budget proposal for fiscal year
2011, released by the White House on February 1, 2010, is the elimination of certain U.S. federal
income tax provisions currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such
changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for
oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and
development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities;
and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical
expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such
changes could be effective. As of December 31, 2009, we have a tax basis of $526 million related
to prior year capitalized intangible drilling costs which will be amortized over the next five
years.


     The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change
in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available
with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively
affect our financial condition and results of operation.


     In addition, Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2011, released
on February 9, 2009, proposed a new natural gas wellhead tax on both volumes and sales of natural
gas extracted in Pennsylvania, where the majority of our acreage in the Marcellus Shale is located.
The passage of any legislation as a result of the Pennsylvania state budget proposal could
increase the tax burden on our operations in the Marcellus Shale.


     The elimination of certain federal tax deductions or the imposition of new state taxes
discussed about could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.


15




Table of Contents



Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential
liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business



     We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. It generally is
not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily,
a review is focused on higher valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties
and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it
permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies
and capabilities. We do not always inspect every well we acquire, and environmental problems, such
as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is performed.


     In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry.
Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing
acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to
obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue
our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable
to us or regulatory approvals.


     Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with recent and
future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations
may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention
and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion
of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt,
contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.


Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain
experienced technical and other professional personnel



     Our success is highly dependent on our management personnel and none of them is currently
subject to an employment contract. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a
material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and
other professional personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract
additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the
loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise.


Drilling is a high-risk activity



     The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors
can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry
holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil and gas to be commercially viable
after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may
be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of other factors, including:






     
    •
     
    high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor, or other
services;



     

     
    •
     
    unexpected operational events and drilling conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    reductions in oil and gas prices;



     

     
    •
     
    limitations in the market for oil and gas;



     

     
    •
     
    adverse weather conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    facility or equipment malfunctions;



     

     
    •
     
    equipment failures or accidents;



     

     
    •
     
    title problems;



     

     
    •
     
    pipe or cement failures;



     

     
    •
     
    casing collapses;



     

     
    •
     
    compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;



     

     
    •
     
    environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipelines ruptures, and
discharges of toxic gases;



     

     
    •
     
    lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools;



     

     
    •
     
    unusual or unexpected geological formations;



     

     
    •
     
    loss of drilling fluid circulation;



     

     
    •
     
    pressure or irregularities in formations;





16




Table of Contents








     
    •
     
    fires;



     

     
    •
     
    natural disasters;



     

     
    •
     
    surface craterings and explosions; and



     

     
    •
     
    uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids.





     If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or
a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the
field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.


New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete



     The oil and gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology,
including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use
or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive
pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition,
competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy
technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we
can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future
may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a
timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological
advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be
adversely affected.


Federal legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in
increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.



     The United States Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the Safe Drinking
Water Act to eliminate an existing exemption for hydraulic fracturing activities. Hydraulic
fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into rock formation
to stimulate natural gas production. We find that the use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to
produce commercial quantities of natural gas and oil from many reservoirs, especially shale
formations such as the Barnett Shale and the Marcellus Shale. If adopted, this legislation could
establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level. This additional
regulation and permitting could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could
result in additional burdens that could increase our costs of compliance and doing business as well
as delay the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not
commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing.


Our business depends on oil and gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by others



     The marketability of our oil and gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity
and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The lack of available capacity on these
systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or
discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over
the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships could
materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party
facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm
arrangements. We have recently entered into some firm arrangements in certain of our production
areas. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy
policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines
and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport
oil and gas. If any of these third party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully
unavailable to transport our product, or if the natural gas quality specifications for a natural
gas pipeline or facility changes so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those
pipelines or facilities, our revenues could be adversely affected.


     The disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance and/or weather could negatively
impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such
facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut-in of production could
materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is
hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings
absent sufficient cash flow.


Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results
of operations



     If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may
be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure
to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely
result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional
indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for
payment of interest on and


17




Table of Contents



principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may
not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our
obligations and impair our liquidity.



We exist in a litigious environment



     Any constituent could bring suit regarding our existing or planned operations or allege a
violation of an existing contract. Any such action could delay when planned operations can
actually commence or could cause a halt to existing production until such alleged violations are
resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and support expenses in
defending our rights, but halting existing production or delaying planned operations could impact
our future operations and financial condition. Such legal disputes could also distract management
and other personnel from their primary responsibilities.


Our financial statements are complex



     Due to United States generally accepted accounting rules and the nature of our business, our
financial statements continue to be complex, particularly with reference to hedging, asset
retirement obligations, equity awards, deferred taxes and the accounting for our deferred
compensation plans. We expect such complexity to continue and possibly increase.


Risks Related to Our Common Stock



Common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued



     In 2004, 2005 and 2006, we sold 40.2 million shares of common stock to finance
acquisitions. In 2007, we sold 8.1 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In
2008, we sold 4.4 million shares of common stock with the proceeds used to pay down a portion of
the outstanding balance of our bank credit facility. In 2009, we issued 744,000 shares of common
stock to purchase acreage in the Marcellus Shale. Our ability to repurchase securities for cash is
limited by our bank credit facility and our senior subordinated note agreements. We also issue
restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to our employees and directors as part of their
compensation. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock, additional subordinated
notes or other securities or debt convertible into common stock, to extend maturities or fund
capital expenditures, including acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock in
the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding stockholders.


Dividend limitations



     Limits on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, as defined, are
imposed under our bank credit facility and under our senior subordinated note agreements. These
limitations may, in certain circumstances, limit or prevent the payment of dividends independent of
our dividend policy.


Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or
above the price you paid



     The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses
for investors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. From January 1, 2007 to
December 31, 2009, the price of our common stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged
from a low of $23.77 per share to a high of $76.81 per share. We expect our stock to continue to
be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our
control. These factors include:






     
    •
     
    changes in oil and gas prices;



     

     
    •
     
    variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in governmental regulation;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in market valuations of comparable companies;



     

     
    •
     
    additions or departures of key personnel; or



     

     
    •
     
    future sales of our stock.





     We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at
some time in the future and our stock price could decline as a result.


18




Table of Contents









    
    
    


    ITEM 1B