ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



     We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The
following summarizes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties, which may adversely affect
our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could also be impacted by
additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be
immaterial.


Risks Related to Our Business



Volatility of natural gas and oil prices significantly affects our cash flow and capital resources
and could hamper our ability to produce natural gas and oil economically



     Natural gas and oil prices are volatile, and a decline in prices adversely affects our
profitability and financial condition. The oil and gas industry is typically cyclical, and prices
for natural gas and oil have been volatile. Historically, the industry has experienced downturns
characterized by oversupply and/or weak demand. Long-term supply and demand for oil and gas is
uncertain and subject to a myriad of factors such as:






     
    •
     
    the domestic and foreign supply of natural gas and oil;









     
    •
     
    the price and availability of alternative fuels;









     
    •
     
    weather conditions;









     
    •
     
    the level of consumer demand;









     
    •
     
    the price of foreign imports;









     
    •
     
    worldwide economic conditions;









     
    •
     
    the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities and processing
facilities;









     
    •
     
    the effect of worldwide energy conservation efforts;









     
    •
     
    political conditions in natural gas and oil producing regions; and









     
    •
     
    domestic (federal, state and local) and foreign governmental regulations and taxes.





     In July 2008, the average New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) price of oil was $133.49 per
barrel and the average NYMEX price of gas was $12.96 per mcf. In December 2008, the average NYMEX
price of oil had fallen to $42.04 per barrel and gas was $6.56 per mcf. In 2009, oil prices
rebounded to $74.60 per barrel as of December 31, 2009, while gas prices remained depressed at
$4.46 per mcf. In December 2010, the average NYMEX price for oil had increased to $89.23 per
barrel while gas prices declined to $4.27 per mcf. Significant or extended price declines can
adversely affect the amount of natural gas, NGL and oil that we can economically produce. A
reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require a reduction
in capital spending or require additional borrowing. Without the ability to fund capital
expenditures, we would be unable to replace reserves which would negatively affect our future rate
of growth.


Information concerning our reserves and future net cash flow estimates is uncertain



     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved natural gas and
oil reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of proved
reserves are by their nature uncertain. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual
production, revenues and costs to develop will likely vary from estimates and these variances could
be material.


     Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered
from underground accumulations of natural gas and oil that cannot be directly measured. As a
result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry-accepted geologic and engineering
practices and scientific methods, may calculate different estimates of reserves and future net cash
flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of natural gas and oil
reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other
factors estimated:






     
    •
     
    the amount and timing of natural gas and oil production;









     
    •
     
    the revenues and costs associated with that production; and









     
    •
     
    the amount and timing of future development expenditures.





     The discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves included in this report should
not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required
by generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our
proved reserves are based on a twelve month average price (beginning of month) while cost estimates
are as of the end of the year. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower.
In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted
future net revenues for reporting


11




Table of Contents



purposes under generally accepted accounting principles is not necessarily the most appropriate
discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with
our business and the oil and gas industry in general.



If natural gas and oil prices decrease or drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to
record writedowns of our natural gas and oil properties



     In the past we have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our natural
gas and oil properties, and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional writedowns
in the future. Writedowns may occur when natural gas and oil prices are low, or if we have
downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of operating or
development costs, deterioration in our drilling results or mechanical problems with wells where
the cost to redrill or repair is not supported by the expected economics.


     Accounting rules require that the carrying value of natural gas and oil properties be
periodically reviewed for possible impairment. Impairment is recognized for the excess of book
value over fair value when the book value of a proven property is greater than the expected
undiscounted future net cash flows from that property and on acreage when conditions indicate the
carrying value is not recoverable. We may be required to write down the carrying value of a
property based on natural gas and oil prices at the time of the impairment review, or as a result
of continuing evaluation of drilling results, production data, economics, divestiture activity, and
other factors. While an impairment charge reflects our long-term ability to recover an investment,
it does not impact cash or cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce our reported
earnings and increases our leverage ratios.


Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves



     Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital
expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash
flow from operations, our bank credit facility and debt and equity issuances. We have also engaged
in asset monetization transactions. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such
as the level of production from existing wells, prices of natural gas and oil and our success in
developing and producing new reserves. If our access to capital were limited due to numerous
factors, which could include a decrease in revenues due to lower natural gas and oil prices or
decreased production or deterioration of the credit and capital markets, we would have a reduced
ability to replace our reserves. We may not be able to incur additional bank debt, issue debt or
equity, engage in asset monetization or access other methods of financing on an economic basis to
meet our reserve replacement requirements.


     The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing
base, which is determined by our lenders, at their discretion, taking into account our estimated
proved reserves and is subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by
the lenders at such time. The decline in natural gas and oil prices in 2008 adversely impacted the
value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to
determine our borrowing base. If commodity prices (particularly natural gas prices) continue to
decline, it will have similar adverse effects on our reserves and borrowing base.


Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that we produce



     Because the rate of production from natural gas and oil properties generally declines as
reserves are depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to economically find or acquire
and produce additional natural gas and oil reserves. Except to the extent that we acquire
additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development
activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary
recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future natural gas
and oil production, therefore, is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or
finding additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We cannot assure you that we will
be able to find or acquire and develop additional reserves at an acceptable cost.


     We acquire significant amounts of unproved property to further our development efforts.
Development and exploratory drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including
the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We acquire both producing
and unproved properties as well as lease undeveloped acreage that we believe will enhance growth
potential and increase our earnings over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects
will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally,
there can be no assurance that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us
will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be
productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property
or wells.


12




Table of Contents



Our indebtedness could limit our ability to successfully operate our business



     We are leveraged and our exploration and development program will require substantial capital
resources depending on the level of drilling and the expected cost of services. Our existing
operations will also require ongoing capital expenditures. In addition, if we decide to pursue
additional acquisitions, our capital expenditures will increase, both to complete such acquisitions
and to explore and develop any newly acquired properties.


     The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important consequences, including the
following:






     
    •
     
    we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations
to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our operations;









     
    •
     
    a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, making us vulnerable to
increases in interest rates;









     
    •
     
    we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a
competitive disadvantage;









     
    •
     
    our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the
general economy;









     
    •
     
    we are subject to numerous financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our
existing credit agreements the breach of which could materially and adversely impact our
financial performance;









     
    •
     
    our debt level could limit our flexibility to grow the business and in planning for, or
reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and









     
    •
     
    we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future.





     Despite our current levels of indebtedness, we still may be able to incur substantially more
debt. This could further increase the risks described above. In addition to those risks above, we
may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms.


Our business is subject to operating hazards that could result in substantial losses or liabilities
that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies



     Natural gas and oil operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, craterings,
explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with
abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic natural gas and other
environmental hazards and risks. If any of these hazards occur, we could sustain substantial
losses as a result of:






     
    •
     
    injury or loss of life;









     
    •
     
    severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;









     
    •
     
    pollution or other environmental damage;









     
    •
     
    clean-up responsibilities;









     
    •
     
    regulatory investigations and penalties; or









     
    •
     
    suspension of operations.





     We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may
elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive
relative to the risks presented. We have experienced substantial increases in premiums, especially
in areas affected by hurricanes and tropical storms. Insurers have imposed revised limits
affecting how much the insurers will pay on actual storm claims plus the cost to re-drill wells
where substantial damage has been incurred. Insurers are also requiring us to retain larger
deductibles and reducing the scope of what insurable losses will include. Even with the increase
in future insurance premiums, coverage will be reduced, requiring us to bear a greater potential
risk if our natural gas and oil properties are damaged. We do not maintain any business
interruption insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully
insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance,
it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations.


We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks



     Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of
and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in our credit rating. These
changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition
opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For
example, at December 31, 2010, approximately 86% of our debt is at fixed interest rates with the
remaining 14% subject to variable interest rates.


13




Table of Contents



     Continuing disruptions and volatility in the global finance markets may lead to a contraction
in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued
access to capital; a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of
credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and
operating results. We are exposed to some credit risk related to our bank credit facility to the
extent that one or more of our lenders may be unable to provide necessary funding to us under our
existing revolving line of credit if it experiences liquidity problems.


Difficult
conditions in the global capital markets, the credit markets and the
economy in general
may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations



     Global financial markets have been disrupted and volatile and economic conditions remain weak.
As a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets in general and the solvency of
counterparties specifically, the cost of accessing the credit markets
generally has increased, as
many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending
standards and limited the amount of funding available to borrowers. As a result, we may be unable
to obtain adequate funding under our current credit facility because (i) our lending counterparties
may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) the amount we may borrow under
our current credit facility could be reduced as a result of lower natural gas, natural gas liquids
or oil prices, declines in reserves, stricter lending requirements or regulations, or for other
reasons.


     Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available on acceptable terms.
If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be
unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or
respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material adverse effect on our
production, revenues and results of operations.


Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks



     To manage our exposure to price risk, we, from time to time, enter into hedging arrangements,
utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a significant portion of our future production.
The goal of these hedges is to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and increase the
predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if natural gas and oil
prices rise above the price established by the hedge.


     In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain
circumstances, including instances in which:






     
    •
     
    our production is less than expected;









     
    •
     
    the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or









     
    •
     
    an event materially impacts natural gas or oil prices or the relationship between the
hedged price index and the natural gas or oil sales price.





     We cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we may enter into will adequately protect
us from declines in the prices of natural gas or oil. On the other hand, where we choose not to
engage in hedging transactions in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in
natural gas or oil prices than our competitors who engage in hedging transactions.


The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse
effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price,
interest rate and other risks associated with our business.



     The United States Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes
federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as
us, that participate in that market. The new legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), was signed into law by the President on July 21,
2010 and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate
rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment.
In its rulemaking under the Act, the CFTC has proposed regulations to set position limits for
certain futures and options contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their
economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from
these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will finalize
these regulations. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin
requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our
derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this
time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative
instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be
as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could
significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including requirements to post collateral
which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of


14




Table of Contents




derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we
encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and
increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as
a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and
our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and
fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the
volatility of natural gas and oil prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading
in derivatives and commodity instruments related to natural gas and oil. Our revenues could
therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower
commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our
financial condition, and our results of operations.



Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we have and we may not be
able to successfully compete in acquiring, exploring and developing new properties



     We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, acquiring
reserves and leases, obtaining goods, services and employees needed to operate and manage our
business and marketing natural gas or oil. Competitors include multinational oil companies,
independent production companies and individual producers and operators. Many of our competitors
have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able
to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can or weather industry downturns
more easily than we can.


The demand for field services and their ability to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill
and produce our oil and natural gas properties



     In a rising price environment, such as those experienced in 2007 and early 2008,
well service providers and related equipment and personnel are in short supply. This caused
escalating prices, the possibility of poor services coupled with potential damage to downhole
reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures increase the actual cost of services, extend the
time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to accidents sustained from the over use
of equipment and inexperienced personnel. In some cases, we are operating in areas where services
and infrastructure are limited, or do not exist or in urban areas which are more restrictive.


A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local
regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of
our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase



     Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (“NGA”) exempts natural gas gathering facilities
from regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) as a natural gas company under
the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional
tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a
natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and
federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the
classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future
determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress.


     While our natural gas gathering operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the
NGA, our gas gathering operations may be subject to certain FERC reporting and posting requirements
in a given year. FERC has recently issued a final rule requiring certain participants in the
natural gas market, including certain gathering facilities and natural gas marketers that engage in
a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases, to submit annual reports to FERC on the
aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the
extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to, the formation of price
indices. In addition, FERC has issued a final rule requiring major non-interstate pipelines,
defined as certain non-interstate pipelines delivering more than an average of 50 million MMBtu of
gas over the previous three calendar years, to post daily, certain information regarding the
pipeline’s capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has design
capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day.


     Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products
derived from these businesses. FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas
regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas
quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the
intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its
regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will
continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipelines rates and rules and policies that
may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. For more information regarding the
regulation of our operations, please see “Government Regulation” in Item 1 of this report.


15




Table of Contents



Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and
orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines



     Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose
penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of
profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated as a natural
gas company by FERC under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our
otherwise non-FERC jurisdiction facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and
capacity posting requirements. We also must comply with the anti-market manipulation rules
enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be
considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the
future could subject Range to civil penalty liability. For more information regarding regulation
of our operations, please see “Government Regulation” in Item 1 of this report.


The natural gas and oil industry is subject to extensive regulation



     The natural gas and oil industry is subject to various types of regulations in the United
States by local, state and federal agencies. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant
review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Numerous
departments and agencies, both state and federal, are authorized by statute to issue rules and
regulations binding on participants in the natural gas and oil industry. Compliance with such
rules and regulations often increases our cost of doing business, delays our operations and, in
turn, decreases our profitability.


     Our operations are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state and local laws,
regulations and enforcement policies relating to the environment. We may incur significant costs
and liabilities in complying with existing or future environmental laws, regulations and
enforcement policies and may incur costs arising out of property damage or injuries to employees
and other persons. These costs may result from our current and former operations and even may be
caused by previous owners of property we own or lease or relate to third party sites. Any past,
present or future failure by us to completely comply with environmental laws, regulations and
enforcement policies could cause us to incur substantial fines, sanctions or liabilities from
cleanup costs or other damages. Incurrence of those costs or damages could reduce or eliminate
funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses.


     Climate change is receiving increasing attention from scientists, legislators and governmental
agencies. There is an ongoing debate as to the extent to which our climate is changing, the
potential causes of this change and its potential impacts. Some attribute global warming to
increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane, which has led to
significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions.


     There are a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas
emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and
state actions to address global climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs
including potential new regulations to control or restrict emissions, taxes or other charges to
deter emissions of greenhouse gases, energy efficiency requirements to reduce demand, or other
regulatory actions. These actions could:






     
    •
     
    result in increased costs associated with our operations;









     
    •
     
    increase other costs to our business;









     
    •
     
    affect the demand for natural gas; and









     
    •
     
    impact the prices we charge our customers.





     Adoption of federal or state requirements mandating a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions
could have far-reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry and the U.S. economy. We
cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations on our future consolidated
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For more information regarding the
environmental regulation of our business, see “Environment and Occupational Matters” in Item 1 of
this report.


Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil
exploration and development may be eliminated, and additional state taxes on natural gas extraction
may be imposed, as a result of future legislation.



     Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to
U.S. federal income tax laws, including the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax benefits
currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but
are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas
properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development
costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an
extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is
unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such


16




Table of Contents





changes could be
effective. As of December 31, 2010, we had a tax basis of $773.0 million related to prior year
capitalized intangible drilling costs, which will be amortized over the next five years.


     The passage of this legislation or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law
could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to
natural gas and oil exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our
financial condition and results of operations.


     In addition, Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2011, released
on February 9, 2009, proposed a new natural gas wellhead tax on both volumes and sales of natural
gas extracted in Pennsylvania, where the majority of our acreage in the Marcellus Shale is located.
This tax was not approved prior to the Rendell administration leaving office. The new administration in
Pennsylvania has not proposed such a tax. The passage of any legislation as a result of the
Pennsylvania state budget proposal could increase the tax burden on our operations in the Marcellus
Shale.


Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential
liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business



     We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. It generally is
not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily,
a review is focused on higher valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties
and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it
permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies
and capabilities. We do not always inspect every well we acquire, and environmental problems, such
as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is performed.


     In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry.
Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing
acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to
obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue
our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable
to us or regulatory approvals.


     Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with recent and
future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations
may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention
and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion
of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt,
contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.


Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain
experienced technical and other professional personnel



     Our success is highly dependent on our management personnel and none of them is currently
subject to an employment contract. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a
material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and
other professional personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract
additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the
loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise.


Drilling is  an uncertain and costly activity



     The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors
can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry
holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough natural gas and oil to be commercially
viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing
operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of other factors, including:






     
    •
     
    high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor, or other
services;









     
    •
     
    unexpected operational events and drilling conditions;









     
    •
     
    reductions in natural gas and oil prices;









     
    •
     
    limitations in the market for natural gas and oil;









     
    •
     
    adverse weather conditions;









     
    •
     
    facility or equipment malfunctions;









     
    •
     
    equipment failures or accidents;









     
    •
     
    title problems;









     
    •
     
    pipe or cement failures;




17




Table of Contents













     
    •
     
    casing collapses;









     
    •
     
    compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;









     
    •
     
    environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures, and
discharges of toxic gases;









     
    •
     
    lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools;



     

     
    •
     
    unusual or unexpected geological formations;









     
    •
     
    loss of drilling fluid circulation;









     
    •
     
    pressure or irregularities in formations;









     
    •
     
    fires;









     
    •
     
    natural disasters;









     
    •
     
    surface craterings and explosions; and









     
    •
     
    uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids.





     If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or
a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the
field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.


New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete



     The natural gas and oil industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in
technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As
competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and
competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In
addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them
to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies
before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in
the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement
technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain
technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial
condition may be adversely affected.


New legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in
increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.



     Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and small amounts of additives
under pressure into rock formations to stimulate hydrocarbon (natural gas and oil) production. We
find that the use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of natural
gas and oil from many reservoirs, especially shale formations such as the Barnett Shale and the
Marcellus Shale. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However,
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, recently asserted federal regulatory
authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the Safe Drinking Water Act’s
Underground Injection Control Program. While the EPA has yet to take any action to enforce or
implement this newly asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the
EPA’s recent decision. At the same time, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential
environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities and a committee of the U.S. House of
Representative is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation
has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and
to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states
have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more
stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing
operations. For example, Pennsylvania, Colorado, and Wyoming have each adopted a variety of well
construction, set back, and disclosure regulations limiting how fracturing can be performed and
requiring various degrees of chemical disclosure. If new laws or regulations that significantly
restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us
to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic
fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory
initiatives by the EPA, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting
requirements and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs.


     Additionally, on December 7, 2010, the EPA issued an order to us to take certain action with
regard to the existence of natural gas in two water wells located in southern Parker County, Texas
that the EPA concluded resulted from two of our wells in the Barnett Shale formation, thousands of
feet below the impacted aquifer. On January 18, 2011, the EPA filed an action in federal court to
enforce the order and its penalty provisions of up to $16,500 per day per violation. While we are
vigorously contesting this enforcement action and seeking relief from
the order   in federal appeals
court, we cannot predict the outcome of either the enforcement
action or appeal. However, we do not believe the ultimate resolution
of this matter will have a material impact on our financial position,
statement of operations or cash flows. Please see
“Action by the United States Environmental Protection Agency” in Item 1 of this report.


18




Table of Contents



Our business depends on natural gas and oil transportation and processing facilities, most of which
are owned by others



     The marketability of our natural gas and oil production depends in part on the availability,
proximity and capacity of pipeline systems and processing facilities owned by third parties. The
lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing
wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some
contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business
relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm
transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be
interrupted by those having firm arrangements. We have recently entered into some firm
arrangements in certain of our production areas. We have also entered into long-term agreements
with third parties to provide natural gas gathering and processing services in the Marcellus Shale.
Federal and state regulation of natural gas and oil production and transportation, tax and energy
policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines
and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport
natural gas and oil. If any of these third party pipelines and other facilities become partially
or fully unavailable to transport or process our product, or if the natural gas quality
specifications for a natural gas pipeline or facility changes so as to restrict our ability to
transport natural gas on those pipelines or facilities, our revenues could be adversely affected.


     The disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance and/or weather could negatively
impact our ability to market and deliver our products. In particular, the disruption of certain
third-party natural gas processing facilities in the Marcellus Shale could materially affect our
ability to market and deliver natural gas production in that area. We have no control over when or
if such facilities are restored and generally have no control over what prices will be charged. A
total shut-in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a
substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges
would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow.


Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results
of operations



     If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may
be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure
to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely
result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional
indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for
payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures
may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could
cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity.


We exist in a litigious environment



     Any constituent could bring suit regarding our existing or planned operations or allege a
violation of an existing contract. Any such action could delay when planned operations can
actually commence or could cause a halt to existing production until such alleged violations are
resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and support expenses in
defending our rights, but halting existing production or delaying planned operations could impact
our future operations and financial condition. Such legal disputes could also distract management
and other personnel from their primary responsibilities.


Our financial statements are complex



     Due to United States generally accepted accounting principles and the nature of our business,
our financial statements continue to be complex, particularly with reference to hedging, asset
retirement obligations, equity awards, deferred taxes and the accounting for our deferred
compensation plans. We expect such complexity to continue and possibly increase.


Risks Related to Our Common Stock



Common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued



     In 2004, 2005 and 2006, we sold 40.2 million shares of common stock to finance
acquisitions. In 2007, we sold 8.1 million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In
2008, we sold 4.4 million shares of common stock with the proceeds used to pay down a portion of
the outstanding balance of our bank credit facility. In 2009, we issued 744,000 shares of common
stock to purchase acreage in the Marcellus Shale. In 2010, we issued 380,000 shares of common
stock to purchase acreage in the Marcellus Shale. Our ability to repurchase securities for cash is
limited by our bank credit facility and our senior subordinated note agreements. We also issue
restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to our employees and directors as part of their
compensation. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock, additional subordinated
notes or other securities or debt convertible into common stock, to extend maturities or fund
capital expenditures, including acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock in
the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding stockholders.


19




Table of Contents



Dividend limitations



     Limits on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, as defined, are
imposed under our bank credit facility and under our senior subordinated note agreements. These
limitations may, in certain circumstances, limit or prevent the payment of dividends independent of
our dividend policy.


Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or
above the price you paid



     The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses
for investors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. From January 1, 2008 to
December 31, 2010, the price of our common stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged
from a low of $23.77 per share to a high of $76.81 per share. We expect our stock to continue to
be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our
control. These factors include:






     
    •
     
    changes in natural gas and oil prices;









     
    •
     
    variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results;









     
    •
     
    changes in governmental regulation;









     
    •
     
    changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;









     
    •
     
    changes in market valuations of comparable companies;









     
    •
     
    additions or departures of key personnel; or









     
    •
     
    future sales of our stock.





     We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in
the future and our stock price could decline as a result.





ITEM 1B