ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



     We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The
following summarizes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties which may adversely affect
our business, financial condition or results of operations.


Risks Related to Our Business


Volatility of oil and natural gas prices significantly affects our cash flow and capital resources
and could hamper our ability to produce oil and gas economically



     Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in prices would adversely affect our
profitability and financial condition. The oil and natural gas industry is typically cyclical, and
prices for oil and natural gas have been highly volatile. Historically, the industry has
experienced severe downturns characterized by oversupply and/or weak demand. Higher oil and
natural gas prices have contributed to our positive earnings over the last several years. However,
long-term supply and demand for oil and natural gas is uncertain and subject to a myriad of factors
such as:






     
    •
     
    the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas;



     

     
    •
     
    the price and availability of alternative fuels;



     

     
    •
     
    weather conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    the level of consumer demand;



     

     
    •
     
    the price of foreign imports;



     

     
    •
     
    world-wide economic conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and



     

     
    •
     
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations.





     Decreases in oil and natural gas prices from current levels could adversely affect our
revenues, net income, cash flow and proved reserves. Significant price decreases could have a
material adverse effect on our operations and limit our ability to fund capital expenditures.
Without the ability to fund capital expenditures, we would be unable to replace reserves and
production.


Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks



     To manage our exposure to price risk, we, from time to time, enter into hedging arrangements,
utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a significant portion of our future production.
The goal of these hedges is to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and increase the
predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas
prices rise above the price established by the hedge.


8




Table of Contents



     In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain
circumstances, including instances in which:






     
    •
     
    our production is less than expected;



     

     
    •
     
    the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or



     

     
    •
     
    a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices or the
relationship between the hedged price index and the oil and gas sales price.




Information concerning our reserves and future net reserve estimates is uncertain



     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural
gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of proved
reserves are by their nature uncertain. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual
production, revenues and costs to develop will likely vary from estimates and these variances could
be material.


     Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered
from underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be directly measured. As a
result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry-accepted geologic and engineering
practices and scientific methods, may calculate different estimates of reserves and future net cash
flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of oil and natural gas
reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other
factors estimated:






     
    •
     
    the amount and timing of oil and natural gas production;



     

     
    •
     
    the revenues and costs associated with that production; and



     

     
    •
     
    the amount and timing of future development expenditures.





     The discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves included in this Report should not
be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required by
generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our
proved reserves are based generally on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while
actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent
discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for
reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles is not necessarily the most
appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks
associated with our business and the oil and natural gas industry in general.

If oil and natural gas prices decrease or drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to
record write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties



     In the past, we have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our oil and
natural gas properties, and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional write-downs
in the future. This could occur when oil and natural gas prices are low, or if we have downward
adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of operating or
development costs, deterioration in our drilling results or mechanical problems with wells where
the cost to redrill or repair does not justify the expense.


     Accounting rules require that the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties be
periodically reviewed for possible impairment. “Impairment” is recognized when the book value of a
proven property is greater than the expected undiscounted future net cash flows from that property
and on acreage when conditions indicate the carrying value is not recoverable. We may be required
to write down the carrying value of a property based on oil and natural gas prices at the time of
the impairment review, as well as a continuing evaluation of drilling results, production data,
economics and other factors. While an impairment charge reflects our long-term ability to recover
an investment, it does not impact cash or cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce
our reported earnings and increases our leverage ratios.

Our business is subject to operating hazards and environmental regulations that could result in
substantial losses or liabilities that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies



     Oil and natural gas operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, craterings,
explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with
abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic natural gas and other
environmental hazards and risks. If any of these hazards occur, we could sustain substantial
losses as a result of:


9




Table of Contents







     
    •
     
    injury or loss of life;



     

     
    •
     
    severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;



     

     
    •
     
    pollution or other environmental damage;



     

     
    •
     
    clean-up responsibilities;



     

     
    •
     
    regulatory investigations and penalties; or



     

     
    •
     
    suspension of operations.





     As we drill to deeper horizons and in more geologically complex areas, we could experience a
greater increase in operating and financial risks due to inherent higher reservoir pressures and
unknown downhole risk exposures. As we continue to drill deeper, the number of rigs capable of
drilling to such depths will be fewer and we may experience greater competition from other
operators.


     We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may
elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive
relative to the risks presented. Recently, we have experienced substantial increases in premiums
especially in areas affected by the hurricanes and tropical storms. Insurers have imposed revised
limits affecting how much the insurers will pay on actual storm claims plus the cost to re-drill
wells where substantial damage has been incurred. Insurers are also requiring us to retain larger
deductibles and reducing the scope of what insurable losses will include. Even with the increase
in future insurance premiums, coverage will be reduced, requiring us to bear a greater potential
risk if our oil and gas properties are damaged. We do not maintain any business interruption
insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a
significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could have a
material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations.

We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks



     Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of
and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes
could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition
opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For
example at December 31, 2007, approximately 74% of our debt is at fixed interest rates with the
remaining 26% subject to variable interest rates. Recent unfavorable disclosures concerning the
sub-prime mortgage market may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to
finance our operations.

Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we have and we may not be
able to successfully compete in acquiring, exploring and developing new properties



     We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, acquiring
reserves and leases, obtaining goods, services and employees needed to operate and manage our
business and marketing oil and natural gas. Competitors include multinational oil companies,
independent production companies and individual producers and operators. Many of our competitors
have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able
to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can or weather industry downturns
more easily than we can.

The demand for field services and their ability to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill
and produce our oil and natural gas properties



     Due to current industry demands, well service providers and related equipment and personnel
are in short supply. This is causing escalating prices, the possibility of poor services coupled
with potential damage to downhole reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures will likely
increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for
damages due to accidents sustained from the over use of equipment and inexperienced personnel. In
some cases, we are operating in new areas where services and infrastructure do not exist or in
urban areas which are more restrictive.


The oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive regulation



     The oil and natural gas industry is subject to various types of regulations in the United
States by local, state and federal agencies. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant
review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Numerous
departments and agencies, both state and federal, are authorized by statute to issue rules and
regulations binding on participants in the oil and natural gas industry. Compliance with such
rules and regulations often increases our cost of doing business and, in turn, decreases our
profitability.


10




Table of Contents



     Our operations are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state and local laws,
regulations and enforcement policies relating to the environment. We may incur significant costs
and liabilities in complying with existing or future environmental laws, regulations and
enforcement policies and may incur costs arising out of property damage or injuries to employees
and other persons. These costs may result from our current and former operations and even may be
caused by previous owners of property we own or lease. Any past, present or future failure by us
to completely comply with environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could cause us
to incur substantial fines, sanctions or liabilities from cleanup costs or other damages.
Incurrence of those costs or damages could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration,
development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses.

Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential
liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business



     We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. It generally is
not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily,
a review is focused on higher valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties
and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it
permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies
and capabilities. We do not always inspect every well we acquire, and environmental problems, such
as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is performed.


     For example, in 1997, we consummated a large acquisition that proved extremely disappointing.
Production from the acquired properties fell more rapidly than anticipated and further development
results were below the results we had originally projected. The poor production performance of
these properties resulted in material downward reserve revisions. There is no assurance that our
recent and/or future acquisition activity will not result in similarly disappointing results.


     In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry.
Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing
acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to
obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue
our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable
to us or regulatory approvals.


     Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with recent and
future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations
may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention
and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion
of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt,
contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.

Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain
experienced technical and other professional personnel



     Our success is highly dependent on our management personnel, none of which is currently
subject to an employment contract. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a
material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and
other professional personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract
additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the
loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise.


Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that we produce



     Because the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as
reserves are depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to economically find or acquire
and produce additional oil and natural gas reserves. Except to the extent that we acquire
additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development
activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary
recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future oil and
natural gas production, therefore, is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or
finding additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We cannot assure you that we will
be able to find or acquire and develop additional reserves at an acceptable cost.


Drilling is a high-risk activity



     The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors
can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry
holes or wells that are productive but do not produce


11




Table of Contents


enough oil and natural gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs.
Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a
result of other factors, including:







     
    •
     
    high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor, or
other services;



     

     
    •
     
    unexpected operational events and drilling conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    reductions in oil and natural gas prices;



     

     
    •
     
    limitations in the market for oil and natural gas;



     

     
    •
     
    adverse weather conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    facility or equipment malfunctions;



     

     
    •
     
    equipment failures or accidents;



     

     
    •
     
    title problems;



     

     
    •
     
    pipe or cement failures;



     

     
    •
     
    casing collapses;



     

     
    •
     
    compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;



     

     
    •
     
    environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipelines ruptures,
and discharges of toxic gases;



     

     
    •
     
    lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools;



     

     
    •
     
    unusual or unexpected geological formations;



     

     
    •
     
    loss of drilling fluid circulation;



     

     
    •
     
    pressure or irregularities in formations;



     

     
    •
     
    fires;



     

     
    •
     
    natural disasters;



     

     
    •
     
    blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; and



     

     
    •
     
    uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids.





     If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or
a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the
field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.


New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete



     The oil and natural gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in
technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As
competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and
competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In
addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them
to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies
before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in
the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement
technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain
technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial
condition may be adversely affected.

Our business depends on oil and natural gas transportation facilities, most of which are owned by
others



     The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability,
proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. The unavailability of or lack
of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing
wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some
contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business
relationships could materially affect our operations. We generally do not purchase firm
transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be
interrupted by those having firm arrangements. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas
production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline
pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely
affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and natural gas.


12




Table of Contents



     The disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance and/or weather could negatively
impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such
facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut-in of production could
materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is
hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings
absent sufficient cash flow.


Our indebtedness could limit our ability to successfully operate our business



     We are leveraged and our exploration and development program will require substantial capital
resources estimated to range from $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion per year over the next three years,
depending on the level of drilling and the expected cost of services. Our existing operations will
also require ongoing capital expenditures. In addition, if we decide to pursue additional
acquisitions, our capital expenditures will increase both to complete such acquisitions and to
explore and develop any newly acquired properties.


     The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important consequences, including the
following:






     
    •
     
    we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from
operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our
operations;



     

     
    •
     
    a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, making us vulnerable
to increases in interest rates;



     

     
    •
     
    we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us
at a competitive disadvantage;



     

     
    •
     
    our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or
the general economy;



     

     
    •
     
    breach the numerous financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our
existing credit agreements;



     

     
    •
     
    our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
in our business and the industry in which we operate; and



     

     
    •
     
    we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future.





     Despite our current levels of indebtedness we still may be able to incur substantially more
debt. This could further increase the risks described above.

Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results
of operations



     If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may
be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure
to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely
result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional
indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for
payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures
may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could
cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity.


We exist in a litigious environment



     Any constituent could bring suit or allege a violation of an existing contract. This action
could delay when operations can actually commence or could cause a halt to production until such
alleged violations are resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and
support expenses in defending our rights, planned operations could be delayed which would impact
our future operations and financial condition. Such legal disputes could also distract management
and other personnel from their primary responsibilities.


Our financial statements are complex



     Due to accounting rules and the nature of our business, our financial statements continue to
be complex, particularly with reference to hedging, asset retirement obligations, equity awards,
deferred taxes and the accounting for our deferred compensation plans. We expect such complexity
to continue and possibly increase.



13






Table of Contents



Risks Related to Our Common Stock



Common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued



     Since 1998, we have exchanged 31.9 million shares of common stock for debt and convertible
securities. The exchanges were made based on the relative market value of the common stock and the
debt and convertible securities at the time of the exchange. Also in 2004 and 2005, we sold 33.8
million shares of common stock to finance acquisitions. In 2006, we issued 6.5 million shares as
part of the Stroud acquisition. In 2007, we sold 8.1 million shares of common stock to finance
acquisitions. While the exchanges have reduced interest expense, preferred dividends and future
repayment obligations, the larger number of common shares outstanding had a dilutive effect on our
existing stockholders. Our ability to repurchase securities for cash is limited by our bank credit
facility and our senior subordinated note agreements. In addition, we may issue additional shares
of common stock, additional subordinated notes or other securities or debt convertible into common
stock, to extend maturities or fund capital expenditures, including acquisitions. If we issue
additional shares of our common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current
outstanding stockholders.


Dividend limitations



     Limits on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, as defined, are imposed
under our bank credit facility and under our senior subordinated note agreements. These
limitations may, in certain circumstances, limit or prevent the payment of dividends independent of
our dividend policy.

Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or
above the price you paid



     The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses for
investors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. From January 1, 2005 to
December 31, 2007, the price of our common stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged
from a low of $12.34 per share to a high of $51.88 per share. We expect our stock to continue to
be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our
control. These factors include:






     
    •
     
    changes in oil and natural gas prices;



     

     
    •
     
    variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;



     

     
    •
     
    changes in market valuations of comparable companies;



     

     
    •
     
    additions or departures of key personnel; or



     

     
    •
     
    future sales of our stock.





     We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in
the future, and our stock price could decline as a result.





ITEM 1B