Item 1A. Risk Factors.


 



    Financial
    Strategy


 


    Key components of our financial strategy include generating and
    growing free cash flow and sustaining or improving our return on
    invested capital. Our definition of free cash flow, which is not
    a measure determined in accordance with United States generally
    accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), is cash
    provided by operating activities less purchases of property and
    equipment, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as
    presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows. We
    believe that free cash flow is a driver of stockholder value and
    provides useful information regarding the recurring cash
    provided by our operations. Free cash flow also demonstrates our
    ability to execute our financial strategy, which includes
    reinvesting in capital assets to ensure a high level of customer
    service, investing in capital assets to facilitate growth in our
    customer base and services provided, maintaining our investment
    grade credit ratings and reducing debt, paying cash dividends,
    repurchasing our stock, and maintaining and improving our market
    position through business optimization. Free cash flow is also a
    key metric used to determine management’s compensation.


 


    We manage our free cash flow by ensuring that capital
    expenditures and operating asset levels are appropriate in light
    of our existing business and growth opportunities and by closely
    managing our working capital, which consists primarily of
    accounts receivable and accounts payable.




    
    7



Table of Contents





    We have used and will continue to use our cash flow to maximize
    stockholder value as well as our return on invested capital. Our
    Financial Strategy includes:


 



    Market
    Growth and Optimization


 


    Within our markets, our goal is to deliver sustainable,
    long-term profitable growth while efficiently operating our
    assets to generate acceptable rates of return. We allocate
    capital to businesses, markets and development projects to
    support growth in order to achieve acceptable rates of return.
    We develop previously non-permitted, non-contiguous landfill
    sites (greenfield landfill sites). We also expand our existing
    landfill sites, when possible. We supplement this organic growth
    with acquisitions of operating assets, such as landfills,
    transfer stations, material recovery facilities and tuck-in
    acquisitions of collection and disposal operations in existing
    markets. We continuously evaluate our existing operating assets
    and their deployment within each market to determine if we have
    optimized our position and to ensure appropriate investment of
    capital. Where operations are not generating acceptable returns,
    we examine opportunities to achieve greater efficiencies and
    returns through the integration of additional assets. If such
    enhancements are not possible, we may ultimately decide to
    divest the existing assets and reallocate resources to other
    markets.


 



    Enhancing
    Stockholder Value


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Dividends. In July 2003, our Board of Directors
    initiated a quarterly cash dividend of $0.04 per share. Our
    quarterly dividend has increased from time to time thereafter,
    the latest increase occurring in the third quarter of 2010 to
    $0.20 per share, representing a compound annual growth rate of
    approximately 26%. We expect to continue paying quarterly cash
    dividends and may consider additional increases of our quarterly
    cash dividend if we believe it will enhance stockholder value.




 



     
        •  

    
    Share Repurchase. In November 2010, our board of
    directors approved a share repurchase program pursuant to which
    we may repurchase up to $400.0 million of our outstanding
    shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we used
    $41.1 million under the program to repurchase
    1.4 million shares at an average cost per share of $28.46.
    We expect to use the remaining funds in this program to
    repurchase shares during 2011. We intend to execute our
    financial strategy while still maintaining flexibility to take
    advantage of market growth opportunities and still maintaining
    our investment grade credit ratings.





 



    Capital
    Structure


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Debt. Following our December 5, 2008 Allied
    acquisition, we initiated a debt reduction program which, to
    date, has resulted in a net reduction in borrowings of
    $1.3 billion funded by cash flow from operations and
    proceeds from disposition of assets. We also refinanced
    $1.5 billion in senior notes and $677.4 million in
    tax-exempt financings which reduced the average coupon rate on
    our senior notes and tax-exempt financings, on a weighted
    average basis, by more than 125 basis points while
    extending our debt maturities and thereby giving greater
    stability to our capital structure. We anticipate taking further
    advantage of capital market opportunities to mitigate our
    financial risk by issuing new debt in 2011 and using the
    proceeds to repay existing debt. Any early extinguishment of
    debt may result in a charge in the period in which the debt is
    repurchased and retired.




 



     
        •  

    
    Credit Ratings. We believe that a key component of
    our financial strategy includes maintaining investment grade
    ratings on our senior debt, which was rated BBB by
    Standard & Poor’s, BBB by Fitch and Baa3 by
    Moody’s as of December 31, 2010. Such ratings have
    allowed us, and should continue to allow us, to readily access
    capital markets at competitive rates. Our cash utilization
    strategy will continue to focus on maintaining our investment
    grade credit ratings.





 


    For certain risks related to our financial strategy, see
    Item 1A. Risk Factors.


 



    Operations


 


    Our operations primarily consist of the collection, transfer and
    disposal of non-hazardous solid waste.




    
    8



Table of Contents





    Collection Services. We provide solid waste
    collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and
    residential customers through 348 collection companies. In 2010,
    76.2% of our revenue was derived from collection services.
    Within the collection line of business, 35% of our revenue is
    from services provided to municipal and residential customers,
    40% is from services provided to commercial customers, and 25%
    is from services provided to industrial and other customers.


 


    Our residential collection operations involve the curbside
    collection of refuse from small containers into collection
    vehicles for transport to transfer stations or directly to
    landfills. Residential solid waste collection services are
    typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which
    we generally secure by competitive bid and which give us
    exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in the
    respective municipalities. These contracts or franchises usually
    range in duration from one to five years, although some of our
    exclusive franchises are for significantly longer periods.
    Residential solid waste collection services may also be
    performed on a subscription basis, in which individual
    households contract directly with us. The fees received for
    subscription residential collection are based primarily on
    market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance to
    the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. In general,
    subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in
    advance by the residential customers receiving the service.


 


    In our commercial and industrial collection operations, we
    supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. We
    also rent compactors to large waste generators. Commercial
    collection services are generally performed under one- to
    three-year service agreements, and fees are determined by
    considerations such as market factors, collection frequency,
    type of equipment furnished, the type and volume or weight of
    the waste collected, transportation costs, the distance to the
    disposal facility and the cost of disposal.


 


    We also provide waste collection services to industrial and
    construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms
    ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. Our
    construction services are provided to the commercial
    construction and home building sectors. We collect the
    containers or compacted waste and transport the waste either to
    a landfill or a transfer station for disposal.


 


    We also provide recycling services in certain markets. These
    services include the curbside collection of residential
    recyclable waste and the provision of a variety of recycling
    services to commercial and industrial customers.


 


    Transfer and Disposal Services. We own or operate
    204 transfer stations. We deposit waste at these transfer
    stations, as do other private haulers and municipal haulers, for
    compaction and transfer to trailers for transport to disposal
    sites or recycling facilities. In 2010, transfer and disposal
    services accounted for 18.2% of our revenue.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we owned or operated 193 active
    landfills, which had approximately 36,000 permitted acres and
    total available permitted and probable expansion disposal
    capacity of approximately 4.7 billion in-place cubic yards.
    The in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change
    based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory
    authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in
    compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to
    successfully renew operating permits and obtain expansion
    permits at our sites. Some of our landfills accept non-hazardous
    special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated
    soils.


 


    Most of our active landfill sites have the potential for
    expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted
    acreage. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal
    capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue
    an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste
    volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and
    likelihood of obtaining an expansion. To satisfy future disposal
    demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at
    certain of our landfills. However, we cannot assure you that all
    proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed.


 


    We also have responsibility for 129 closed landfills, for which
    we have associated closure and post-closure obligations.




    
    9



Table of Contents





    Landfill Gas and Renewable Energy
    Projects. During 2010, we brought two new landfill
    gas to energy (LFGTE) projects on line, resulting in a total of
    73 active LFGTE projects. These projects consist of the
    following:


 




    
    



        •  

        51 electric plants fueled by landfill gas;




 



        •  

        14 medium British Thermal Unit (BTU) plants providing landfill
    gas to industrial users to be burned as fuel;




 



        •  

        six high BTU plants that provide pipeline quality natural gas
    that ultimately could be used to fuel our natural gas
    fleet, and




 



        •  

        two projects that burn landfill gas to evaporate leachate.





 


    The beneficial use of landfill gas provides our economy and
    environment with significant benefits, including:


 




    
    



        •  

        The use and destruction of methane, a potent greenhouse gas,
    which reduces air pollution; and




 



        •  

        The use of landfill gas offsets the use of fossil fuels, thus
    reducing our dependence on foreign oil and use of our natural
    resources.





 


    Our 51 generating projects produce 321 megawatts of electricity
    annually, which is enough power to supply the electric needs of
    189,530 homes. Our 22 other LFGTE projects process and produce
    55,950 cubic feet per minute of landfill gas annually, which
    provides an energy benefit equivalent to heating 190,151 homes.
    The environmental benefit of all of our projects removes the
    equivalent of 950,434 tons of methane emissions and 2,346,535
    tons of carbon dioxide emissions from the atmosphere. This is
    equivalent to removing the emissions of approximately
    3.9 million cars from our highways.


 


    One of the two new projects, a medium BTU use project at our
    Newton County Landfill, received the USEPA 2010 Project of the
    Year award.


 


    In 2010, we also began the design and construction of new
    projects at nine landfills, which is comprised of seven electric
    plants, one medium BTU plant and one high BTU plant. The high
    BTU project, announced in the fall of 2010, will feature an
    industry first process of producing high BTU pipeline quality
    gas and using that gas to provide equivalent renewable
    compressed natural gas (CNG) to a portion of our expanding fleet
    of CNG refuse vehicles.


 


    Recycling Facilities and Other Services. We
    own or operate 76 materials recovery facilities and other
    recycling operations. These facilities sort recyclable paper,
    aluminum, glass and other materials. Most of these recyclable
    materials are internally collected by our residential collection
    operations. In some areas, we receive commercial and industrial
    solid waste that is sorted at our facilities into recyclable
    materials and non-recyclable waste. The recyclable materials are
    salvaged, repackaged and sold to third parties, and the
    non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or incinerators.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    We seek to provide quality services that will enable us to
    maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. Our business is
    derived from a broad customer base, which we believe will enable
    us to experience stable growth. We focus our marketing efforts
    on continuing and expanding our business with existing
    customers, as well as attracting new customers.


 


    We employ approximately 1,100 sales and marketing employees with
    a sales and marketing strategy of providing high-quality,
    comprehensive solid waste collection, recycling, transfer and
    disposal services to our customers at competitive prices. We
    target customers of all sizes, from small quantity generators to
    large “Fortune 500” companies and municipalities.


 


    While most of our marketing activity is local in nature, we also
    provide a National Accounts program in response to the needs of
    national and regional customers. This National Accounts program
    is designed to provide the best total solution to our
    customers’ evolving waste management needs in an
    environmentally responsible manner. We partner with national
    clients to reach their sustainability goals, optimize waste
    streams,





    
    10



Table of Contents





    balance equipment and service intervals, and provide customized
    reporting. The National Accounts program centralizes services to
    effectively manage customer needs, while helping minimize
    procurement costs. With our extended geographic reach, this
    program effectively serves our customers nationwide. As industry
    leaders, our mission is to utilize our strengths and expertise
    to exceed customer expectations by consistently delivering the
    best national program available.


 


    Historically we have not always changed the trade names of the
    local businesses we acquired, and therefore we do not operate
    nationally under any one mark or trade name. The majority of our
    operations, however, are branded under either
    “Republic,” “Allied” or “BFI.”


 



    Customers


 


    We provide services to a broad base of commercial, industrial,
    municipal and residential customers. No single customer has
    individually accounted for more than 3% of our consolidated
    revenue or of our reportable segment revenue in any of the last
    three years.


 



    Competition


 


    We operate in a highly competitive industry. However, entry into
    our business and the ability to operate profitably require
    substantial amounts of capital and managerial experience.


 


    Competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from
    a few other large, national publicly owned companies, including
    Waste Management, Inc., several regional publicly and privately
    owned solid waste companies, and thousands of small privately
    owned companies. In any given market, competitors may have
    larger operations and greater resources. In addition to national
    and regional firms and numerous local companies, we compete with
    municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal
    operations. These municipalities may have financial advantages
    due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing.


 


    We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of
    price and the quality of our services. From time to time, our
    competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort
    to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal
    contract. Our ability to maintain and increase prices in certain
    markets may be impacted by the pricing policies of our
    competitors. This may have an impact on our future revenue and
    profitability.


 



    Seasonality
    and Severe Weather


 


    Our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement
    or severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste
    collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding
    compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste,
    reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or
    delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and
    other facilities. Our operations also can be favorably affected
    by severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste in
    situations where we are able to charge for our additional
    services.


 



    Regulation


 


    Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of
    federal, state and local requirements that regulate the
    environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use.
    Operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals
    generally are required for landfills and transfer stations,
    certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and
    other facilities that we own or operate. These permits are
    subject to denial, revocation, modification and renewal in
    certain circumstances. Federal, state and local laws and
    regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or storm water
    discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation,
    treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous
    waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the
    release or threatened release of hazardous substances. These
    laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with
    strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to
    revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain
    injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the event of
    violations, including





    
    11



Table of Contents





    criminal penalties. The U.S. Environmental Protection
    Agency (EPA) and various other federal, state and local
    authorities administer these regulations.


 


    We strive to conduct our operations in compliance with
    applicable laws, regulations and permits. However, in the
    existing climate of heightened environmental concerns, from time
    to time we have been issued citations or notices from
    governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to
    expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various
    landfills and other facilities. We cannot assure you that
    citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite
    our regulatory compliance efforts. We have established final
    capping, closure, post-closure and remediation reserves that we
    believe, based on currently available information, will be
    adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs.
    However, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed
    our reserves. Refer to the Contractual Obligations table within
    Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
    contained elsewhere herein for further information.


 


    Federal Regulation. The following summarizes
    the primary federal environmental and occupational health and
    safety-related statutes that affect our facilities and
    operations:


 




    
    



        •  
    
    The Solid Waste Disposal Act, including the Resource
    Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). RCRA establishes
    a framework for regulating the handling, transportation,
    treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous
    solid waste, and requires states to develop programs to ensure
    the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills.





 


    Subtitle D of RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the
    disposal of municipal solid waste. Regulations under Subtitle D
    currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management
    criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions,
    facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure
    and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards,
    groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action
    standards. All of the states in which we operate have
    implemented permit programs pursuant to RCRA and Subtitle D.
    These state permit programs may include landfill requirements
    which are more stringent than those of Subtitle D. Our failure
    to comply with the implementation of federal environmental
    requirements by state and local authorities at any of our
    locations may lead to temporary or permanent loss of an
    operating permit, which would result in costs in connection with
    securing new permits and reduced revenue from lost operational
    time.


 


    All of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill
    development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed
    Subtitle D requirements. Operating and design criteria for
    existing operations have been modified to comply with these
    regulations. Compliance with Subtitle D regulations has resulted
    in increased costs and may in the future require substantial
    additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally
    associated with our waste management activities.


 




    
    



        •  
    
    The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
    Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA). CERCLA, among other things,
    provides for the cleanup of sites from which there is a release
    or threatened release of a hazardous substance into the
    environment. CERCLA may impose strict joint and several
    liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural
    resources upon current owners and operators of a site, parties
    who were owners or operators of a site at the time the hazardous
    substances were disposed of, parties who transported the
    hazardous substances to a site, and parties who arranged for the
    disposal of the hazardous substances at a site. Under the
    authority of CERCLA and its implementing regulations, detailed
    requirements apply to the manner and degree of investigation and
    remediation of facilities and sites where hazardous substances
    have been or are threatened to be released into the environment.
    Liability under CERCLA is not dependent on the existence or
    disposal of only “hazardous wastes,” but also can be
    based upon the existence of small quantities of more than 700
    “substances,” characterized by the EPA as
    “hazardous” many of which are found in common
    household waste.





 


    Among other things, CERCLA authorizes the federal government to
    investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances
    have been or are threatened to be released into the environment
    or to order persons potentially liable for the cleanup of the
    hazardous substances to do so themselves. In addition, the





    
    12



Table of Contents





    EPA has established a National Priorities List of sites at which
    hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released
    and which require investigation or cleanup.


 


    CERCLA liability is strict liability. It can be founded upon the
    release or threatened release, even as a result of
    unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of hazardous
    substances, including very small quantities of such substances.
    Thus, even if we have never knowingly transported or received
    hazardous waste, it is likely that hazardous substances have
    been deposited or “released” at landfills or other
    facilities that we presently or historically have owned or
    operated, or at properties owned by third parties to which we
    have transported waste. Therefore, we could be liable under
    CERCLA for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous substances at
    such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if those
    substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired
    or operated them. The costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be very
    expensive and can include the costs of disposing remediation
    wastes at appropriately-licensed facilities. Given the
    difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment
    liability, such liability could have a material impact on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 




    
    



        •  

        The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (the
    Clean Water Act). This act regulates the discharge of pollutants
    from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites,
    into streams, rivers and other waters of the United States.
    Runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is
    discharged into surface waters through discrete conveyances must
    be covered by discharge permits that generally require us to
    conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain
    circumstances, to reduce the quantity of pollutants in those
    discharges. Storm water discharge regulations under the Clean
    Water Act require a permit for certain construction activities
    and for runoff from industrial operations and facilities, which
    may affect our operations. If a landfill or transfer station
    discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly
    owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge
    limits imposed by that treatment works. In addition, states may
    adopt groundwater protection programs under the Clean Water Act
    or the Safe Drinking Water Act that could affect the manner in
    which our solid waste landfills monitor and control their waste
    management activities. Furthermore, in the event that
    development at any of our facilities alters or affects wetlands,
    we may be required to secure permits prior to such development
    commencing. In these situations, permitting agencies may require
    mitigation of wetland impacts.




 



        •  

        The Clean Air Act. The Clean Air Act imposes
    limitations on emissions from various sources, including
    landfills. In March 1996, the EPA promulgated regulations that
    require large municipal solid waste landfills to install
    landfill gas monitoring systems. These regulations apply to
    landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or
    modification on or after May 30, 1991, and, principally, to
    landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or
    more of municipal solid waste. The regulations apply whether the
    landfill is active or closed. The date by which each affected
    landfill is required to have a gas collection and control system
    installed and made operational varies depending on calculated
    emission rates at the landfill. Efforts to curtail the emission
    of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effect of climate
    change may require our landfills to deploy more stringent
    emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital
    or operating costs. In addition, our vehicle fleet may also
    become subject to higher efficiency standards or other
    carbon-emission restrictions. See Item 1A. Risk Factors
    – “Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions
    could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we
    cannot yet estimate.” Many state regulatory agencies also
    currently require monitoring systems for the collection and
    control of certain landfill gas. Certain of these state agencies
    are also implementing greenhouse gas control regulations that
    would also apply to landfill gas emissions.




 



        •  

        The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970
    (OSHA). OSHA authorizes the Occupational Safety and
    Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor to
    promulgate occupational safety and health standards. A number of
    these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous
    chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities
    and operations.





 


    State and Local Regulation. Each state in
    which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing
    solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most
    cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and
    liabilities for such matters. States also have adopted
    regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and
    closure of landfills and transfer stations. Some counties,
    municipalities and other local governments have





    
    13



Table of Contents





    adopted similar laws and regulations. Our facilities and
    operations are likely to be subject to these types of
    requirements. In addition, our operations may be affected by the
    trend in many states toward requiring the development of solid
    waste reduction and recycling programs. For example, several
    states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities
    to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste
    planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of
    solid waste deposited in landfills. Additionally, laws and
    regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid
    waste landfills, including yard waste, newspapers, beverage
    containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries, electronic
    wastes and household appliances, have been promulgated in
    several states and are being considered in others. Legislative
    and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction
    at the source and waste recycling also have been or are under
    consideration by the U.S. Congress and the EPA.


 


    To construct, operate and expand a landfill, we must obtain one
    or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and
    land use approvals. These permits and approvals may be
    burdensome to obtain and to comply with, are often opposed by
    neighboring landowners and citizens’ groups, may be subject
    to periodic renewal, and are subject to denial, modification,
    non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. Significant
    compliance disclosure obligations often accompany these
    processes. In connection with our acquisition of existing
    landfills, we may be required to expend considerable time,
    effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into
    compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the
    permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity.


 


    Other Regulations. Many of our facilities own
    and operate underground storage tanks that are generally used to
    store petroleum-based products. These tanks are generally
    subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that
    mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal.
    In the event of leaks or releases from these tanks, these
    regulations require that polluted groundwater and soils be
    remediated. We believe that all of our underground storage tanks
    meet all applicable regulations. If underground storage tanks we
    own or operate leak, we could be liable for response costs and,
    if the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be
    liable for damages to third parties. We are unaware of facts
    indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to
    underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on
    our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.


 


    With regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are
    subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board
    and are regulated by the Federal Highway Administration, Office
    of Motor Carriers, and by regulatory agencies in states that
    regulate such matters. Various state and local government
    authorities have enacted or promulgated, or are considering
    enacting or promulgating, laws and regulations that would
    restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county,
    or other jurisdiction lines. In 1978, the U.S. Supreme
    Court ruled that a law that restricts the importation of
    out-of-state
    solid waste is unconstitutional; however, states have attempted
    to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and
    implicated by that ruling. In 1994, the Supreme Court ruled that
    a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from
    leaving its place of generation, imposes an impermissible burden
    upon interstate commerce, and, therefore, is unconstitutional.
    In 2007, the Supreme Court upheld the right of a local
    government to direct the flow of solid waste to a publicly owned
    and publicly operated waste facility. A number of county and
    other local jurisdictions have enacted ordinances or other
    regulations restricting the free movement of solid waste across
    jurisdictional boundaries. Other governments may enact similar
    regulations in the future. These regulations may, in some cases,
    cause a decline in volumes of waste delivered to our landfills
    or transfer stations and may increase our costs of disposal,
    thereby adversely affecting our operations.


 


    Liabilities Established for Landfill and Environmental
    Costs. We have established reserves for landfill
    and environmental costs, which include landfill site final
    capping, closure and post-closure costs. We periodically
    reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions
    regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of
    Subtitle D of RCRA, and we adjust our rates used to expense
    final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based
    on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe
    that our recorded reserves for such landfill and environmental
    expenditures are adequate. However, environmental laws may
    change, and we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will
    be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new
    environmental laws and regulations, future changes or
    interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or adverse
    environmental conditions previously unknown to us.




    
    14



Table of Contents






    Liability
    Insurance and Bonding


 


    The nature of our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities
    arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the
    environment. Such potential liabilities could involve, for
    example, claims for remediation costs, personal injury, property
    damage and damage to the environment in cases where we may be
    held responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of
    employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or
    property damage occurring in the course of our operations; or
    claims alleging negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning
    or performance of work. We could also be subject to fines and
    civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged
    violations of regulatory requirements. Because of the nature and
    scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed
    in environmental litigation can be significant. Our solid waste
    operations have third party environmental liability insurance
    with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations,
    subject to certain limitations and exclusions. However, we
    cannot assure you that such environmental liability insurance
    would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major
    loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry
    excess environmental liability insurance should market
    conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs
    prohibitive.


 


    We have general liability, vehicle liability, employment
    practices liability, pollution liability, directors and
    officers’ liability, workers’ compensation and
    employer’s liability coverage, as well as umbrella
    liability policies to provide excess coverage over the
    underlying limits contained in these primary policies. We also
    carry property insurance. Although we try to operate safely and
    prudently and we have, subject to limitations and exclusions,
    substantial liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we
    will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities that could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 


    Our insurance programs for workers’ compensation, general
    liability, vehicle liability, and employee-related health care
    benefits are effectively self-insured. Claims in excess of
    self-insurance levels are insured subject to the excess policy
    limits and exclusions. Accruals are based on claims filed and
    actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred
    but not reported. Due to the variable condition of the insurance
    market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future,
    increased self-insurance retention levels and increased
    premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance through
    higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in
    our self-insurance reserves and expense.


 


    In the normal course of business, we post performance bonds,
    insurance policies, letters of credit, or cash or marketable
    securities deposits in connection with municipal residential
    collection contracts, closure and post-closure of landfills,
    environmental remediation, environmental permits, and business
    licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our
    performance. To date, we have satisfied financial responsibility
    requirements by making cash or marketable securities deposits or
    by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or
    surety bonds.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately
    30,000 full-time employees, approximately 27% of whom were
    covered by collective bargaining agreements. From time to time,
    our operating locations may experience union organizing efforts.
    We have not historically experienced any significant work
    stoppages. We currently have no disputes or bargaining
    circumstances that we believe could cause significant
    disruptions in our business. Our management believes that we
    have good relations with our employees.


 



    Availability
    of Reports and Other Information


 


    Our corporate website is
    http://www.republicservices.com.
    We make available on this website, free of charge, access to our
    Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to those
    materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
    15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. We make such
    materials available as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically submit them to the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC). Our corporate website also contains our
    Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics, Political
    Contributions Policy and Charters of the Nominating and
    Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee





    
    15



Table of Contents





    and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. In
    addition, the SEC website is
    http://www.sec.gov.
    The SEC makes available on this website, free of charge,
    reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the
    SEC. Information on our website or the SEC website is not part
    of this
    Form 10-K.
    We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under
    Item 5.05 of
    Form 8-K
    and applicable New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules regarding
    amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics by posting this
    information on our website at www.republicservices.com.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1A. 

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    This
    Form 10-K
    contains certain forward-looking information about us that is
    intended to be covered by the safe harbor for
    “forward-looking statements” provided by the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words
    such as “expect,” “will,” “may,”
    “anticipate,” “plan,” “estimate,”
    “project,” “intend,” “should,”
    “can,” “likely,” “could” and
    similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
    statements. These statements include statements about our plans,
    strategies and prospects. Forward-looking statements are not
    guarantees of performance. These statements are based upon the
    current beliefs and expectations of our management and are
    subject to risk and uncertainties, including the risks set forth
    below in these risk factors, which could cause actual results to
    differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or
    projected by, the forward-looking information and statements.


 


    In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors,
    the results anticipated by the forward-looking statements
    discussed in this
    Form 10-K
    may not occur. You should not place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of
    this
    Form 10-K.
    Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation,
    we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised
    forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances
    after the date of this
    Form 10-K
    or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


 



    We
    have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial
    flexibility.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    $7.0 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases
    outstanding. This amount of indebtedness and our debt service
    requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access
    additional capital and make capital expenditures and other
    investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and
    interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our
    business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and
    other restrictive covenants of our debt instruments. Further,
    our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants
    contained in our debt instruments may be affected by changes in
    economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond
    our control. If we do not comply with these covenants and
    restrictions, we may be required to take actions such as
    reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing dividends or
    stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing
    all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity
    capital.


 



    The
    downturn in the U.S. economy may continue to have an adverse
    impact on our operating results.


 


    A weak economy generally results in decreases in the volumes of
    waste generated. In 2010, weakness in the U.S. economy had
    a negative effect on our revenue, operating results and
    operating cash flows. The current and previous economic
    slowdowns have negatively impacted the portion of our collection
    business servicing the manufacturing and construction
    industries. As a result of the global economic crisis, we may
    experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing
    pressure and customer turnover as well. We cannot assure you
    that worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring
    recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our
    consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows. Furthermore, recovery in solid waste volumes historically
    has lagged behind recovery in the general economy and we cannot
    assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions
    will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our
    consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    The
    downturn in the U.S. economy may expose us to credit risk for
    amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts
    and others.


 


    The weak U.S. economy has reduced the amount of taxes
    collected by various governmental agencies. We provide services
    to a number of these agencies including numerous municipalities.
    These governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties
    resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be
    unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. In addition, the
    weak economy may cause other customers, including our large
    national accounts, to suffer financial difficulties and
    ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us.
    This could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 



    The
    downturn in the U.S. economy and in the financial markets could
    expose us to counter-party risk associated with our
    derivatives.


 


    To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in various commodities
    and interest rates, we have entered into a number of derivative
    agreements. These derivative agreements require us or the
    counter-party to such agreements to make payments to the other
    party if the price of certain commodities or interest rates vary
    from a specified amount. Although we only enter these agreements
    with investment grade-rated financial institutions, a continued
    downturn in the U.S. economy or in the financial markets
    could adversely impact the financial stability of the
    counter-parties with which we do business, potentially limiting
    their ability to fulfill their obligations under our derivative
    agreements. This could have a negative impact on our
    consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    The
    waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors
    that may have greater financial and operational resources,
    flexibility to reduce prices and other competitive advantages
    that could make it difficult for us to compete
    effectively.


 


    We principally compete with large national waste management
    companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and
    local companies for collection and disposal accounts.
    Competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price
    and the quality of services. Competition for disposal business
    is primarily based on disposal costs, geographic location and
    quality of operations. One of our competitors may have greater
    financial and operational resources than we do. Further, many
    counties and municipalities that operate their own waste
    collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax
    revenue or tax-exempt financing. Our ability to obtain solid
    waste volume for our landfills may also be limited by the fact
    that some major collection companies also own or operate
    landfills to which they send their waste. In markets in which we
    do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may
    operate at a disadvantage to fully integrated competitors. As a
    result of these factors, from time to time we may have
    difficulty competing effectively in certain markets. If we were
    to lower prices to address these competitive issues, it could
    negatively impact our revenues and profitability.


 



    Price
    increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased
    costs and may cause us to lose volume.


 


    We seek to secure price increases necessary to offset higher
    costs (including fuel and environmental costs), to maintain or
    improve operating margins, and to obtain adequate returns on our
    substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. From
    time to time, our competitors may reduce their prices in an
    effort to expand their market share. Contractual, general
    economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our
    ability to raise prices. For example, many of our contracts have
    price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as
    the Consumer Price Index. Particularly in a weak
    U.S. economy such as the current one, our costs may
    increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the Consumer
    Price Index. This may continue to be the case even when the
    U.S. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste
    industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the
    general economy. As a result, we may be unable to offset
    increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain
    adequate investment returns through price increases. We may also
    lose volume to lower-cost competitors.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    Increases
    in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals will increase our
    operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we will be
    able to recover fuel or oil cost increases from our
    customers.


 


    We depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our
    collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for
    collection, transfer, and disposal. Fuel prices are
    unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly based on events
    beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions
    by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and
    other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas,
    war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, and
    regional production patterns. Due to contractual or market
    factors, we may not be able to offset such volatility through
    fuel surcharges. For example, our fuel costs were
    $407.6 million in 2010, representing 5.0% of our revenue
    compared to $349.8 million in 2009, representing 4.3% of
    our revenue.


 


    To manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have
    entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make
    payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a
    specified amount. During 2010, approximately 7% of our fuel
    volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements. Additionally,
    we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers.
    For 2010, we were able to recover approximately 66% of our fuel
    costs with fuel recovery fees.


 


    Over the last several years, regulations have been adopted
    mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor
    vehicles. In November 2010, EPA finalized its Renewable Fuel
    Standard for 2011, which mandates increasing volumes of
    renewable fuels and biofuels to be used in motor vehicles driven
    in the U.S. These regulations will likely affect the type of
    fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses and in the near-term increase
    the cost of that fuel. Our operations also require the use of
    products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary
    with the price of petrochemicals. An increase in the price of
    petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which
    would increase our operating and capital costs. We are also
    susceptible to increases in indirect fuel surcharges from our
    vendors.


 



    Fluctuations
    in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may
    adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results
    of operations and cash flows.


 


    We process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard,
    plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties.
    Our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or
    market requirements for recyclable materials. The resale and
    purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials
    can be volatile due to changes in economic conditions and
    numerous other factors beyond our control. These fluctuations
    may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows. We have in the past, and may in the
    future, enter into swap agreements whereby we receive or make
    payments to counter-parties if the price of commodities varies
    from a specified amount or range.


 



    Adverse
    weather conditions may limit our operations and increase the
    costs of collection and disposal.


 


    Our collection and landfill operations could be adversely
    impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by
    increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting in
    the future from climate change, any of which could increase the
    volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without
    corresponding compensation), interfere with collection and
    landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity
    or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. In
    addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary
    suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our
    operating results in the affected regions during those periods.


 



    We
    currently have matters pending with the Internal Revenue Service
    (the “IRS”), which could result in large cash
    expenditures and could have a material adverse impact on our
    operating results and cash flows.


 


    During its examination of Allied’s 2002 tax year, the IRS
    asserted that a 2002 redemption of four partnership interests in
    waste-to-energy
    businesses should have been recharacterized as disguised sale
    transactions. This issue is currently before the Appeals
    Division of the IRS. The Company believes its position is
    supported by relevant technical authorities and strong business
    purpose and we intend to vigorously defend our position on





    
    18



Table of Contents





    this matter. The potential tax and interest through
    December 31, 2010 (to the extent unpaid) have been fully
    reserved in our consolidated balance sheet. A disallowance would
    not materially affect our consolidated results of operations;
    however, a deficiency payment would adversely impact our cash
    flow in the period the payment was made. The accrual of
    additional interest charges through the time this matter is
    resolved will affect our consolidated results of operations. In
    addition, the successful assertion by the IRS of penalty and
    penalty-related interest in connection with this matter could
    have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    Additionally, during its examination of Allied’s 2000
    through 2007 tax years, the IRS proposed that certain landfill
    costs be allocated to the collection and control of methane gas
    that is naturally emitted from landfills. The IRS’ position
    is that the methane gas emitted by a landfill constitutes a
    joint product resulting from landfill operations and, therefore,
    associated costs should not be expensed until the methane gas is
    sold or otherwise disposed. We believe we have several
    meritorious defenses, including the fact that methane gas is not
    actively produced for sale by us but rather arises naturally in
    the context of providing disposal services. Therefore, we
    believe that the resolution of this issue will not have a
    material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position,
    results of operations or cash flows.


 


    For additional information on these matters, see Note 10,
    Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements in
    Item 8. of this
    Form 10-K.


 



    We may
    be unable to execute our financial strategy.


 


    Our ability to execute our financial strategy depends on our
    ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt.
    The credit rating process is contingent upon a number of
    factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure
    you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade
    ratings in the future. Our interest expense would increase and
    our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be
    adversely affected should we fail to maintain investment grade
    ratings.


 


    Our financial strategy is also dependent on our ability to
    generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing
    business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste
    businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, reduce indebtedness
    and minimize borrowings, and take other actions to enhance
    stockholder value. We cannot assure you that: we will be
    successful in executing our broad-based pricing program; we will
    generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy;
    we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, we
    will be able to increase the amount of such dividends, or we
    will be able to continue our share repurchase program.


 



    A
    downgrade in our bond ratings could adversely affect our
    liquidity by increasing the cost of debt and financial assurance
    instruments.


 


    While downgrades of our bond ratings may not have an immediate
    impact on our cost of debt or liquidity, they may impact our
    cost of debt and liquidity over the near to medium term. If the
    rating agencies downgrade our debt, this may increase the
    interest rate we must pay to issue new debt, and it may even
    make it prohibitively expensive for us to issue new debt. If our
    debt ratings are downgraded, future access to financial
    assurance markets at a reasonable cost, or at all, also may be
    adversely impacted.


 



    The
    solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and the
    amount we spend on capital expenditures may exceed current
    expectations, which could require us to obtain additional
    funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our
    business.


 


    Our ability to remain competitive and to grow and expand our
    operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and
    access to capital. If our capital efficiency programs are unable
    to offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be
    necessary to increase the amount we spend. Additionally, if we
    make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount
    we expend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure and
    environmental remediation expenditures will increase. Our cash
    needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping,
    closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above
    our current estimates, which may





    
    19



Table of Contents





    occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or
    local government requirements and other factors beyond our
    control. Increases in expenditures would negatively impact our
    cash flows.


 


    Over the last several years, regulations have been adopted
    mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions. In May
    2010, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety
    Administration (“NHTSA”) finalized the first
    U.S. standards for GHG emissions from conventional
    automobiles, including large
    pick-up
    trucks. These regulations include increased fuel economy
    requirements and apply to new motor vehicles covering model
    years 2012 through 2016. We do not expect that this final rule
    will lead to a material increase in our capital costs. Later in
    2010 the EPA and the NHTSA proposed rules expanding the scope of
    GHG emission standards for motor vehicles to include heavy duty
    vehicles, including solid waste collection vehicles and tractor
    trailers. These rules would similarly include increased fuel
    economy standards for such vehicles and would apply to new
    heavy-duty motor vehicles covering model years 2014 through
    2018. Because the rule is still in the proposal stage, we cannot
    predict its effect on us but it could increase our capital
    costs. This also could cause an increase in vehicle operating
    costs or a reduction in operating efficiency.


 



    We may
    be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand
    existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could
    decrease our revenue and increase our costs.


 


    We cannot assure you that we will successfully obtain or
    maintain the permits we require to operate our business because
    permits to operate non-hazardous solid waste landfills and to
    expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills have become
    more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. Permits
    often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and
    compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and
    other regulations. These permits are also often subject to
    resistance from citizen or other groups and other political
    pressures. Local communities and citizen groups, adjacent
    landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a
    permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits
    under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which
    we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for
    environmental damage. Responding to these challenges has, at
    times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with
    establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities.
    In addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval
    may prohibit us from establishing new facilities or expanding
    existing facilities. Our failure to obtain the required permits
    to operate our non-hazardous solid waste landfills could have a
    material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may have
    to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our
    competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to
    one of our other landfills, either of which could significantly
    increase our waste disposal costs.


 


    The waste industry is subject to extensive government
    regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our
    operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to
    make additional capital expenditures.


 



    If we
    inadequately accrue for landfill capping, closure and
    post-closure costs, our financial condition and results of
    operations may be adversely affected.


 


    A landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure
    maintenance commenced, once the permitted capacity of the
    landfill is reached and additional capacity is not authorized.
    We have significant financial obligations relating to capping,
    closure and post-closure costs at our existing owned or operated
    landfills, and will have material financial obligations with
    respect to any future owned or operated landfills. We establish
    accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping,
    closure and post-closure financial obligations. We could
    underestimate such accruals, and our financial obligations for
    capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amount
    accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds
    established for this purpose. Such a shortfall could result in
    significant unanticipated charges to income. Additionally, if a
    landfill is required to be closed earlier than expected or its
    remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals
    for capping, closure and post-closure could be required to be
    accelerated, which could have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.




    
    20



Table of Contents






    We
    cannot assure you that we will continue to operate our landfills
    at current volumes due to the use of alternatives to landfill
    disposal caused by state requirements or voluntary
    initiatives.


 


    Most of the states in which we operate landfills require
    counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to
    reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through
    waste planning, composting and recycling, or other programs.
    Some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the
    source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes,
    such as yard waste, at landfills. Although such actions are
    useful in protecting our environment, these actions, as well as
    voluntary private initiatives by customers to reduce waste or
    seek disposal alternatives, have reduced and will in the future
    reduce the volume of waste going to landfills. Accordingly, we
    cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills
    at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill
    disposal services due to the decrease in demand for such
    services.


 



    The
    possibility of landfill and transfer station site development
    projects, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being
    completed or certain other events could result in a material
    charge to income.


 


    We capitalize certain expenditures relating to development,
    expansion and other projects. If a facility or operation is
    permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a
    development or expansion project is not completed or is
    determined to be impaired, we will charge any unamortized
    capitalized expenditures to income relating to such facility or
    project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or
    otherwise. In future periods, we may incur charges against
    earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may
    cause impairments. Such charges could have a material adverse
    impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We are
    subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control
    regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our
    operations and subject us to additional liability.


 


    Complying with laws and regulations governing the use,
    treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous
    wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the
    remediation of contamination associated with the release of
    hazardous substances is costly. Laws and regulations often
    require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify
    landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. We
    cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price
    increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these
    laws and regulations. In addition, environmental regulatory
    changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping,
    closure and post-closure, and environmental and remediation
    activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend
    sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes.


 


    Our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are, and may
    in the future continue to be, affected by state or local laws or
    regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste
    across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that
    direct the flow of waste to a specified facility. Such laws and
    regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in
    declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate
    disposal.


 


    In addition to the costs of complying with environmental
    regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought
    by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in
    violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and
    regulations, or who assert claims alleging environmental damage,
    personal injury or property damage. As a result, we may be
    required to pay fines or implement corrective measures, or we
    may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. A
    significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant
    permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could
    have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows. We establish
    accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our
    environmental obligations. We could underestimate such accruals
    and remediation costs could exceed amounts accrued. Such
    shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to
    income.




    
    21



Table of Contents






    Regulation
    of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our
    operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet
    estimate.


 


    Efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases (GHGs) and
    to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to be
    debated on the federal, regional, and state level. Our landfill
    operations emit methane, identified as a GHG, and our vehicle
    fleets emit, among others, carbon dioxide, which has also been
    identified as a GHG. Conventional wisdom now suggests that
    passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is
    highly unlikely. Nonetheless, should comprehensive federal
    climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose
    costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot
    predict.


 


    Absent comprehensive federal legislation to control GHG
    emissions, EPA is moving ahead administratively under its
    existing Clean Air Act authority. In October 2009, EPA published
    a Proposed Prevention of Significant Deterioration and
    Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule (PSD tailoring rule).
    EPA finalized the PSD tailoring rule on May 13, 2010. The
    finalized PSD tailoring rule establishes new thresholds for GHG
    emissions that define when Clean Air Act permits would be
    required and would “tailor” these programs to limit
    which facilities would be required to obtain permits. EPA’s
    legal authority to “tailor” this rule has been
    challenged. As of January 2, 2011, some of our landfills
    became subject to the PSD tailoring rule, which requires permit
    amendments and could require additional emission controls for
    GHGs when modifications are made to these landfills, which could
    increase our costs.


 


    On October 25, 2010, EPA and the Department of
    Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety
    Administration (NHTSA), proposed rules to reduce GHG emissions
    from medium and heavy duty vehicles. These proposed rules, if
    finalized, would impose higher fuel economy standards of heavy
    duty vehicles. As such, the proposed rules could require us to
    expend additional capital on our vehicle fleet.


 


    In addition to the obligations imposed by the PSD tailoring
    rule, as a result of EPA finding that six GHGs endanger public
    health in December 2009 EPA may impose additional GHG emissions
    controls on stationary sources. While EPA made its finding in
    the context of regulating air emissions from motor vehicles, now
    that it has made the endangerment finding, other provisions of
    the Clean Air Act provide EPA with the authority to impose
    further regulations upon stationary sources of GHG emissions,
    including landfills. We cannot predict the requirements or
    effective date of any additional stationary source rules that
    might apply to landfills as a result of the endangerment finding
    and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that further developments
    in this area will not have a material effect on our landfill
    operations or on our consolidated financial condition, results
    of operations, or cash flows.


 



    We may
    have potential environmental liabilities that are not covered by
    our insurance. Changes in insurance markets also may impact our
    financial results.


 


    We may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the
    environment as a result of our operations. We maintain high
    deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage.
    If we were to incur substantial liability for environmental
    damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such
    liability. This could have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we
    may experience future increases in self-insurance levels as a
    result of increased retention levels and increased premiums. As
    we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention
    levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance
    reserves and expense.


 



    Despite
    our efforts, we may incur additional hazardous substances
    liability in excess of amounts presently known and
    accrued.


 


    We are a potentially responsible party at many sites under
    CERCLA, which provides for the remediation of contaminated
    facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for
    the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a
    facility at which there has been a release or a threatened
    release of a “hazardous substance.” CERCLA liability
    also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at
    the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who
    arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility
    (i.e.,





    
    22



Table of Contents





    generators of the waste and transporters who selected the
    disposal site). Hundreds of substances are defined as
    “hazardous” under CERCLA and their presence, even in
    minute amounts, can result in substantial liability.
    Notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable
    regulations and to avoid transporting and receiving hazardous
    substances, we may have additional liability under CERCLA, or
    similar state laws or RCRA, in excess of our current reserves
    because such substances may be present in waste collected by us
    or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected,
    transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have
    acquired. Actual costs for these liabilities could be
    significantly greater than amounts presently accrued for these
    purposes, which could have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash
    flows.


 



    Currently
    pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could
    result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or
    settlements.


 


    We are, and from time to time become, involved in lawsuits,
    regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal
    proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business.
    Many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual
    and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and
    complexities. The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits,
    regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal
    proceedings is uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes or
    resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or
    settlements, either of which could require substantial payments,
    adversely affecting our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    We may
    be unable to manage our growth effectively.


 


    Our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial,
    operational and management resources. To continue our growth, we
    may need to add administrative and other personnel, and will
    need to make additional investments in operations and systems.
    We cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train
    qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our
    operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required.


 



    We may
    be unable to execute our acquisition growth
    strategy.


 


    Our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on
    our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition
    candidates as well as our ability to successfully consolidate
    acquired operations into our business. The consolidation of our
    operations with those of acquired companies may present
    significant challenges to our management. In addition,
    competition among our competitors for acquisition candidates may
    prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. As
    such, we cannot assure you that:


 




    
    



        •  

        desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified;




 



        •  

        we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified;




 



        •  

        we will effectively consolidate companies we acquire; or




 



        •  

        any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings.





 


    If any of the aforementioned factors force us to alter our
    growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely
    affected.


 



    Businesses
    we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities.


 


    In pursuing our acquisition strategy, our due diligence
    investigations of the acquisition candidates may fail to
    discover certain undisclosed liabilities of the acquisition
    candidates. If we acquire a company having undisclosed
    liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual,
    as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed
    liabilities. We expect to try to minimize our exposure to such
    liabilities by conducting due diligence, by obtaining
    indemnification from each of the sellers of the acquired
    companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase
    price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only
    specified assets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be
    able to obtain indemnification or that any





    
    23



Table of Contents





    indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or
    sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any
    undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions.


 



    Our
    consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and
    assumptions that may differ from actual results.


 


    Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
    accordance with U.S. GAAP and necessarily include amounts
    based on estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual
    results could differ from these amounts. Significant items
    requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments
    about matters that are inherently uncertain include the carrying
    value of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of
    landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure
    and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts
    receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential
    litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for
    environmental remediation, employee benefit and pension plans,
    deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions and self-insurance.


 


    We cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for landfill
    and environmental costs will be adequate to cover the
    requirements of existing environmental regulations, future
    changes to or interpretations of existing regulations, or the
    identification of adverse environmental conditions previously
    unknown to management.


 



    The
    introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could
    adversely impact our results of operations.


 


    Complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could
    adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows, or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our
    results of operations in future periods.


 



    We may
    be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages,
    which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our
    operations.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, approximately 27% of our workforce
    was represented by various local labor unions. If our unionized
    workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other
    slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our
    operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could
    have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows. Additional groups of
    employees may seek union representation in the future and, if
    successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements
    could divert management attention and result in increased
    operating costs. If a greater percentage of our workforce
    becomes unionized, our business and financial results could be
    materially and adversely impacted due to the potential for
    increased operating costs.


 



    Our
    obligation to fund multi-employer pension plans to which we
    contribute may have an adverse impact on us.


 


    We contribute to at least 28 multi-employer pension plans
    covering at least 22% of our current employees. We do not
    administer these plans and generally are not represented on the
    boards of trustees of these plans. The Pension Protection Act
    enacted in 2006 (the PPA) requires under-funded pension plans to
    improve their funding ratios. Based on the information available
    to us, we believe that some of the multi-employer plans to which
    we contribute are either “critical” or
    “endangered” as those terms are defined in the PPA. We
    cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding,
    if any, we may be required to make to these plans and,
    therefore, have not recorded any related liabilities. However,
    plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of
    operations or cash flows for a given period. Furthermore, under
    current law, upon the termination of a multi-employer pension
    plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider
    from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing
    employers (each, a “Withdrawal Event”), we would be
    required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate
    share of the plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. We cannot
    assure you that there will not be a Withdrawal Event with
    respect to any of the multi-employer pension plans to which we
    contribute or that, in the event of such a Withdrawal Event, the
    amounts we would be





    
    24



Table of Contents





    required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact
    on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 



    The
    costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding
    requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and
    fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material
    adverse impact on our results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan which is funded with
    trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and
    equity securities. Our costs for providing such benefits and
    related funding requirements are subject to changes in the
    market value of plan assets. Our pension expenses and related
    funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial
    calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from
    actual results due to changing market and economic conditions,
    interest rates and other factors. A significant increase in our
    pension obligations and funding requirements could have a
    material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    The
    loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on
    our consolidated financial condition, results of operations,
    cash flows and growth prospects.


 


    Our future success depends on the continued contributions of
    several key employees and officers. The loss of the services of
    key employees and officers, whether such loss is through
    resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract
    additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flows and growth prospects.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B