Item 1A., “Risk Factors.”


 



    Operating
    Strategy


 


    We seek to leverage existing assets and revenue growth to
    increase operating margins and enhance shareholder value. Our
    operating strategy for accomplishing this goal includes the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    utilize the extensive industry knowledge and experience of our
    executive management team,



 


     
        • 

    
    utilize a decentralized management structure in overseeing
    day-to-day
    operations,



 


     
        • 

    
    integrate waste operations,



 


     
        • 

    
    improve operating margins through economies of scale, cost
    efficiencies and asset utilization,



 


     
        • 

    
    achieve high levels of customer satisfaction, and



 


     
        • 

    
    utilize business information systems to improve consistency in
    financial and operational performance.





 


    For certain risks related to our operating strategy, see
    Item 1A., “Risk Factors.”


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Experienced Executive Management
    Team.  We believe that we have one of the most
    experienced executive management teams in the solid waste
    industry.





 


    James E. O’Connor, who has served as our Chief Executive
    Officer since December 1998, also became our Chairman in January
    2003. He worked at Waste Management, Inc. from 1972 to 1978 and
    from 1982 to 1998. During that time, he served in various
    management positions, including Senior Vice President in 1997
    and 1998, and Area President of Waste Management of Florida,
    Inc. from 1992 to 1997. Mr. O’Connor has over
    32 years of experience in the solid waste industry.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 


    Michael J. Cordesman, who has served as our Chief Operating
    Officer since March 2002 and also as our President since
    February 2003, has over 26 years of experience in the solid
    waste industry. He joined us in June 2001 as our Eastern Region
    Vice President. From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Cordesman served as
    Vice President of the Central Region for Superior Services
    Inc. From 1980 to 1999, he served in various positions with
    Waste Management, Inc., including Vice President of the
    Mid-Atlantic Region from 1992 to 1999.


 


    The other corporate officers with responsibility for our
    operations have an average of over 25 years of management
    experience in the solid waste industry. Our five regional vice
    presidents and our 23 area presidents have an average of
    24 years of experience in the industry.


 


    In addition, Harris W. Hudson, who has served as our Vice
    Chairman since our initial public offering in 1998, has over
    42 years of experience in the solid waste industry,
    including 11 years with Waste Management, Inc. and
    19 years with private waste collection companies.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Decentralized Management Structure.  We
    maintain a relatively small corporate headquarters staff,
    relying on a decentralized management structure to minimize
    administrative overhead costs and to manage our
    day-to-day
    operations more efficiently. Our local management has extensive
    industry experience in growing, operating and managing solid
    waste companies and has substantial experience in their local
    geographic markets. Each regional management team includes a
    vice president, controller, sales manager, maintenance manager
    and an operations manager. We believe that our strong regional
    management teams allow us to more effectively and efficiently
    drive our company’s initiatives and help ensure consistency
    throughout our organization. Our regional management teams and
    our area presidents have extensive authority, responsibility and
    autonomy for operations within their respective geographic
    markets. Compensation for our area management teams is primarily
    based on the improvement in operating income produced and the
    free cash flow and return on invested capital generated in each
    manager’s geographic area of responsibility. In addition,
    through long-term incentive programs, including stock options,
    we believe we have one of the lowest turnover levels in the
    industry for our local management teams. As a result of
    retaining experienced managers with extensive knowledge of and
    involvement in their local communities, we are proactive in
    anticipating our customers’ needs and adjusting to changes
    in our markets. We also seek to implement the best practices of
    our various regions and areas throughout our operations to
    improve operating margins.



 


     
        • 

    
    Integrated Operations.  We seek to
    achieve a high rate of internalization by controlling waste
    streams from the point of collection through disposal. We expect
    that our fully integrated markets generally will have a lower
    cost of operations and more favorable cash flows than our
    non-integrated markets. Through acquisitions and other market
    development activities, we create market-specific, integrated
    operations typically consisting of one or more collection
    companies, transfer stations and landfills. We consider
    acquiring companies that own or operate landfills with
    significant permitted disposal capacity and appropriate levels
    of waste volume. We also seek to acquire solid waste collection
    companies in markets in which we own or operate landfills. In
    addition, we generate internal growth in our disposal operations
    by developing new landfills and expanding our existing landfills
    from time to time in markets in which we have significant
    collection operations or in markets that we determine lack
    sufficient disposal capacity. During the three months ended
    December 31, 2006, approximately 56% of the total volume of
    waste that we collected was disposed of at landfills we own or
    operate. In a number of our larger markets, we and our
    competitors are required to take waste to government-controlled
    disposal facilities. This provides us with an opportunity to
    effectively compete in these markets without investing in
    landfill capacity. Because we do not have landfill facilities or
    government-controlled disposal facilities for all markets in
    which we provide collection services, we believe that through
    landfill and transfer station acquisitions and development we
    have the opportunity to increase our waste internalization rate
    and further integrate our operations. By further integrating
    operations in existing markets through acquisitions and
    development of landfills and transfer stations, we may be able
    to reduce our disposal costs.



 


     
        • 

    
    Economies of Scale, Cost Efficiencies and Asset
    Utilization.  To improve operating margins,
    our management focuses on achieving economies of scale and cost
    efficiencies. The consolidation of acquired






    
    4



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    businesses into existing operations reduces costs by decreasing
    capital and expenses used for routing, personnel, equipment and
    vehicle maintenance, inventories and back-office administration.
    Generally, we consolidate our acquired administrative centers to
    reduce our general and administrative costs. Our goal is to
    maintain our selling, general and administrative costs at
    approximately 10% of revenue, which we feel is appropriate given
    our existing business platform. In addition, our size allows our
    company to negotiate volume discounts for certain purchases,
    including waste disposal rates at landfills operated by third
    parties. Furthermore, we have taken steps to increase
    utilization of our assets. For example, to reduce the number of
    collection vehicles and maximize the efficiency of our fleet, we
    have instituted a grid productivity program which allows us to
    benchmark the performance of all of our drivers. In our larger
    markets, we also use a route optimization program to minimize
    drive times and improve operating density. By using assets more
    efficiently, operating expenses can be reduced.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    High Levels of Customer
    Satisfaction.  Our goal of maintaining high
    levels of customer satisfaction complements our operating
    strategy. Our personalized sales process is oriented towards
    maintaining relationships and ensuring that service is being
    properly provided.



 


     
        • 

    
    Utilize Systems to Improve Consistency in Financial and
    Operational Performance.  We continue to focus
    on systems and training initiatives that complement our
    operating strategy. These initiatives include contact
    management, billing, productivity, maintenance, general ledger
    and human resource systems. These systems provide us with
    detailed information, prepared in a consistent manner, that
    allows us to quickly analyze and act upon trends in our business.





 


    For certain risks related to our operating strategy, see
    Item 1A., “Risk Factors.”


 



    Growth
    Strategy


 


    Our growth strategy focuses on increasing revenue, gaining
    market share and enhancing shareholder value through internal
    growth and acquisitions. For certain risks related to our growth
    strategy, see Item 1A., “Risk Factors.”


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Internal Growth.  Our internal growth
    strategy focuses on retaining existing customers and obtaining
    commercial, municipal and industrial customers through our
    well-managed sales and marketing activities.





 


    Pricing Activities.  We seek to secure price
    increases necessary to offset increased costs. During 2006, we
    continued to secure broad-based price increases across all lines
    of our business to offset various escalating capital and
    operating costs, including fuel. Price increases will remain a
    major component of our overall future operating strategy.


 


    Long-Term Contracts.  We seek to obtain
    long-term contracts for collecting solid waste in high-growth
    markets. These include exclusive franchise agreements with
    municipalities as well as commercial and industrial contracts.
    By obtaining such long-term agreements, we have the opportunity
    to grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the
    underlying population growth in these markets. For example, we
    have secured exclusive, long-term franchise agreements in
    high-growth markets such as Los Angeles, Orange and Contra Costa
    Counties in California, Las Vegas, Nevada, Arlington, Texas, and
    many areas of Florida. We believe that this positions our
    company to experience internal growth rates that are generally
    higher than our industry’s overall growth rate. In
    addition, we believe that by securing a base of long-term
    recurring revenue in growth markets, we are better able to
    protect our market position from competition and our business
    may be less susceptible to downturns in economic conditions.


 


    Sales and Marketing Activities.  We seek to
    manage our sales and marketing activities to enable our company
    to capitalize on our leading position in many of the markets in
    which we operate. We currently have approximately 500 sales and
    marketing employees in the field who are compensated using a
    commission structure that is focused on generating high levels
    of quality revenue. For the most part, these employees directly
    solicit business from existing and prospective commercial,
    industrial, municipal and residential customers. We emphasize
    our rate and cost structures when we train new and existing
    sales personnel. In addition, we utilize a contact management
    system that assists our sales people in tracking leads. It also
    tracks renewal periods for potential commercial, industrial and
    franchise contracts.



    
    5



Table of Contents



 


    Development Activities.  We seek to identify
    opportunities to further our position as an integrated service
    provider in markets where we provide services for a portion of
    the waste stream. Where appropriate, we seek to obtain permits
    to build transfer stations
    and/or
    landfills that would provide vertically integrated waste
    services or expand the service areas for our existing disposal
    sites. Development projects, while generally less capital
    intensive, typically require extensive permitting efforts that
    can take years to complete with no assurance of success. We
    undertake development projects when we believe there is a
    reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced
    acquisition opportunities are not available.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Acquisition Growth.  During the late
    1990s, the solid waste industry experienced a period of rapid
    consolidation. We were able to grow significantly through
    acquisitions during this period. However, the rate of
    consolidation in the industry has slowed considerably. Despite
    this, we continue to look to acquire businesses that complement
    our existing business platform. Our acquisition growth strategy
    focuses on privately held solid waste companies and municipal
    and other local governmental authorities. We believe that our
    ability to acquire privately held companies is enhanced by
    increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing
    capital requirements as a result of changes in solid waste
    regulatory requirements, and the limited number of exit
    strategies for these privately held companies’ owners and
    principals. We also seek to acquire operations and facilities
    from municipalities that are privatizing, which occurs for many
    of the same reasons that privately held companies sell their
    solid waste businesses. In addition, we will continue to
    evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that
    are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies. In
    sum, our acquisition growth strategy focuses on the following:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    acquiring businesses that position our company for growth in
    existing and new markets,



 


     
        • 

    
    acquiring well-managed companies and, when appropriate,
    retaining local management, and



 


     
        • 

    
    acquiring operations and facilities from municipalities that are
    privatizing and publicly owned companies that are divesting of
    assets.





 


    We also seek to acquire landfills, transfer stations and
    collection companies that operate in markets that we are already
    servicing in order to fully integrate our operations from
    collection to disposal. In addition, we have in the past and may
    continue in the future to exchange businesses with other solid
    waste companies if by doing so there is a net benefit to our
    business platform. These activities allow us to increase our
    revenue and market share, lower our cost of operations as a
    percentage of revenue, and consolidate duplicative facilities
    and functions to maximize cost efficiencies and economies of
    scale.


 


    For certain risks involved with our acquisition growth strategy,
    see Item 1A., “Risk Factors — We may be
    unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy,”
    “— We may be unable to manage our growth
    effectively,” and “— Businesses we acquire
    may have undisclosed liabilities.”


 



    Operations


 


    Our operations primarily consist of the collection, transfer and
    disposal of non-hazardous solid waste.


 


    Collection Services.  We provide solid waste
    collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and
    residential customers in 21 states through 135 collection
    companies. In 2006, 75.5% of our revenue was derived from
    collection services. Within the collection line of business,
    31.7% of our revenue is from services provided to municipal and
    residential customers, 37.1% is from services provided to
    commercial customers, and 31.2% is from services provided to
    industrial and other customers.


 


    Our residential collection operations involve the curbside
    collection of refuse from small containers into collection
    vehicles for transport to transfer stations or directly to
    landfills. Residential solid waste collection services are
    typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which
    we generally secure by competitive bid and which give our
    company exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the
    homes in their respective jurisdictions. These contracts or
    franchises usually range in duration from one to five years,
    although some of our exclusive franchises are for significantly
    longer periods. Residential solid waste collection services may
    also be performed on a subscription basis, in which individual
    households contract directly with our company. The fees received
    for subscription residential collection are based primarily on
    market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance



    
    6



Table of Contents




    to the disposal facility and cost of disposal. In general,
    subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in
    advance by the residential customers receiving the service.


 


    In our commercial and industrial collection operations, we
    supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. We
    also rent compactors to large waste generators. Commercial
    collection services are generally performed under one- to
    three-year service agreements, and fees are determined by
    considerations such as the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    market factors,



 


     
        • 

    
    collection frequency,



 


     
        • 

    
    type of equipment furnished,



 


     
        • 

    
    the type and volume or weight of the waste collected,



 


     
        • 

    
    the distance to the disposal facility, and



 


     
        • 

    
    the cost of disposal.





 


    We rent waste containers to construction sites and also provide
    waste collection services to industrial and construction
    facilities on a contractual basis with terms generally ranging
    from a single pickup to one year or longer. Our construction
    services are provided to the commercial construction and the
    home building sectors. We collect the containers or compacted
    waste and transport the waste either to a landfill or a transfer
    station for disposal.


 


    Also, we currently provide recycling services in certain markets
    primarily to comply with local laws or obligations under our
    franchise agreements. These services include the curbside
    collection of residential recyclable waste and the provision of
    a variety of recycling services to commercial and industrial
    customers.


 


    Transfer and Disposal Services.  We own or
    operate 93 transfer stations. We deposit waste at these transfer
    stations, as do other private haulers and municipal haulers, for
    compaction and transfer to trailers for transport to disposal
    sites or recycling facilities. As of December 31, 2006, we
    owned or operated 59 landfills, which had
    9,707 permitted acres and total available permitted and
    probable expansion disposal capacity of approximately
    1.7 billion in-place cubic yards. The in-place capacity of
    our landfills is subject to change based on engineering factors,
    requirements of regulatory authorities, our ability to continue
    to operate our landfills in compliance with applicable
    regulations, and our ability to successfully obtain expansion
    permits at our sites. Some of our landfills accept non-hazardous
    special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated
    soils. See Item 2., “Properties.”


 


    Most of our existing landfill sites have the potential for
    expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted
    acreage. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal
    capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue
    expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste
    volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and
    likelihood of obtaining an expansion. To satisfy future disposal
    demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at
    certain of our landfills, although no assurances can be made
    that all proposed or future expansions will be permitted as
    designed.


 


    Other Services.  We have 33 materials recovery
    facilities and other recycling operations, which are generally
    required to fulfill our obligations under long-term municipal
    contracts for residential collection services. These facilities
    sort recyclable paper, aluminum, glass and other materials. Most
    of these recyclable materials are internally collected by our
    residential collection operations. In some areas, we receive
    commercial and industrial solid waste that is sorted at our
    facilities into recyclable materials and non-recyclable waste.
    The recyclable materials are salvaged, repackaged and sold to
    third parties and the non-recyclable waste is disposed of at
    landfills or incinerators. Wherever possible, our strategy is to
    reduce our exposure to fluctuations in recyclable commodity
    prices by utilizing third-party recycling facilities, thereby
    minimizing our recycling investment.


 


    We provided remediation and other heavy construction services
    primarily through our subsidiary located in Missouri. We sold
    this subsidiary during the fourth quarter of 2005 because it did
    not complement our core business strategy.


 


    We also have a Texas-based compost, mulch and soil business at
    which yard, mill and other waste is processed, packaged and sold
    as various products.



    
    7



Table of Contents



 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    We seek to provide quality services that will enable our company
    to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. We derive our
    business from a broad customer base, which we believe will
    enable our company to experience stable growth. We focus our
    marketing efforts on continuing and expanding business with
    existing customers, as well as attracting new customers.


 


    We employ approximately 500 sales and marketing employees. Our
    sales and marketing strategy is to provide high-quality,
    comprehensive solid waste collection, recycling, transfer and
    disposal services to our customers at competitive prices. We
    target potential customers of all sizes, from small quantity
    generators to large “Fortune 500” companies and
    municipalities.


 


    Most of our marketing activity is local in nature. However, we
    also provide a corporate accounts program in response to the
    needs of some of our customers.


 


    We generally do not change the tradenames of the local
    businesses we acquire, and therefore we do not operate
    nationally under any one mark or tradename. Rather, we rely on
    the goodwill associated with the acquired companies’ local
    tradenames as used in each geographic market in which we operate.


 



    Customers


 


    We provide services to commercial, industrial, municipal and
    residential customers. No one customer has individually
    accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue or of
    our reportable segment revenue in any of the last three years.


 



    Competition


 


    We operate in a highly competitive industry. Entry into our
    business and the ability to operate profitably in the industry
    requires substantial amounts of capital and managerial
    experience.


 


    Competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from
    a few large, national publicly owned companies, including Waste
    Management, Inc. and Allied Waste Industries, Inc., several
    regional publicly and privately owned solid waste companies, and
    thousands of small privately owned companies. Some of our
    competitors have significantly larger operations and may have
    significantly greater financial resources than we do. In
    addition to national and regional firms and numerous local
    companies, we compete with municipalities that maintain waste
    collection or disposal operations. These municipalities may have
    financial advantages due to the availability of tax revenue and
    tax-exempt financing.


 


    We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of
    price and the quality of our services. From time to time, our
    competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort
    to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal
    contract. This may have an impact on our future revenue and
    profitability.


 


    In each market in which we own or operate a landfill, we compete
    for landfill business on the basis of disposal costs, geographic
    location and quality of operations. Our ability to obtain
    landfill business may be limited by the fact that some major
    collection companies also own or operate landfills to which they
    send their waste. There also has been an increasing trend at the
    state and local levels to mandate waste reduction at the source
    and to prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as
    yard waste, at landfills. This may result in the volume of waste
    going to landfills being reduced in certain areas, which may
    affect our ability to operate our landfills at their full
    capacity
    and/or
    affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal
    services. In addition, most of the states in which we operate
    landfills have adopted plans or requirements that set goals for
    specified percentages of certain solid waste items to be
    recycled.


 



    Regulation


 


    Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of
    federal, state and local requirements that regulate the
    environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use.
    Operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals are
    generally required for landfills and transfer stations, certain
    solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other
    facilities that we own or operate, and these permits are subject
    to revocation, modification and renewal in



    
    8



Table of Contents




    certain circumstances. Federal, state and local laws and
    regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or stormwater
    discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation,
    treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous
    waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the
    release or threatened release of hazardous substances. These
    laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with
    strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to
    revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain
    injunctions,
    and/or
    impose fines or penalties in the case of violations, including
    criminal penalties. The U.S. Environmental Protection
    Agency and various other federal, state and local environmental,
    public and occupational health and safety agencies and
    authorities administer these regulations, including the
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the
    U.S. Department of Labor.


 


    We strive to conduct our operations in compliance with
    applicable laws and regulations. However, in the existing
    climate of heightened environmental concerns, from time to time,
    we have been issued citations or notices from governmental
    authorities that have resulted in the need to expend funds for
    remedial work and related activities at various landfills and
    other facilities. There is no assurance that citations and
    notices will not be issued in the future despite our regulatory
    compliance efforts. We have established final capping, closure,
    post-closure and remediation liabilities that we believe, based
    on currently available information, will be adequate to cover
    our current estimates of regulatory costs. However, we cannot
    assure you that actual costs will not exceed our reserves.


 


    Federal Regulation.  The following summarizes
    the primary environmental, public and occupational health and
    safety-related statutes of the United States that affect our
    facilities and operations:


 


    (1) The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended, including
    the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.  RCRA
    and its implementing regulations establish a framework for
    regulating the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and
    disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste, and require
    states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid
    waste in sanitary landfills.


 


    Subtitle D of RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the
    disposal of municipal solid waste. Regulations under Subtitle D
    currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management
    criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions,
    facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure
    and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards,
    groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action
    standards, many of which had not commonly been in effect or
    enforced in the past in connection with municipal solid waste
    landfills. Each state was required to submit to the
    U.S. EPA a permit program designed to implement Subtitle D
    regulations by April 9, 1993. All of the states in which we
    operate have implemented permit programs pursuant to RCRA and
    Subtitle D. These state permit programs may include landfill
    requirements which are more stringent than those of Subtitle D.
    Our failure to comply with the environmental requirements of
    federal, state and local authorities at any of our locations may
    lead to temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit.


 


    All of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill
    development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed
    Subtitle D requirements. Operating and design criteria for
    existing operations have been modified to comply with these
    regulations. Compliance with Subtitle D regulations has resulted
    in increased costs and may in the future require substantial
    additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally
    associated with our waste management activities.


 


    (2) The Comprehensive Environmental Response,
    Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as
    amended.  CERCLA, among other things, provides for
    the cleanup of sites from which there is a release or threatened
    release of a hazardous substance into the environment. CERCLA
    may impose strict joint and several liability for the costs of
    cleanup and for damages to natural resources upon current owners
    and operators of a site, parties who were owners or operators of
    a site at the time the hazardous substances were disposed of,
    parties who transported the hazardous substances to a site and
    parties who arranged for the disposal of the hazardous
    substances at a site. Under the authority of CERCLA and its
    implementing regulations, detailed requirements apply to the
    manner and degree of investigation and remediation of facilities
    and sites where hazardous substances have been or are threatened
    to be released into the environment. Liability under CERCLA is
    not dependent on the existence or disposal of only
    “hazardous wastes” but can also be based upon the
    existence of small quantities of more than 700
    “substances” characterized by the U.S. EPA as
    “hazardous,” many of which may be found in common
    household waste.



    
    9



Table of Contents



 


    Among other things, CERCLA authorizes the federal government to
    investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances
    have been or are threatened to be released into the environment
    or to order (or offer an opportunity to) persons potentially
    liable for the cleanup of the hazardous substances to do so. In
    addition, the U.S. EPA has established a National
    Priorities List of sites at which hazardous substances have been
    or are threatened to be released and which require investigation
    or cleanup.


 


    Liability under CERCLA is not dependent on the intentional
    disposal of hazardous waste. It can be founded upon the release
    or threatened release, even as a result of unintentional,
    non-negligent or lawful action, of thousands of hazardous
    substances, including very small quantities of such substances.
    Thus, even if our landfills have never knowingly received
    hazardous waste as such, it is possible that one or more
    hazardous substances may have been deposited or
    “released” at our landfills or at other properties
    which we currently own or operate or may have owned or operated.
    Therefore, we could be liable under CERCLA for the cost of
    cleaning up such hazardous substances at such sites and for
    damages to natural resources, even if those substances were
    deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them.
    The costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be very expensive. Given the
    difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment
    liability, such liability could have a material impact on our
    business, financial condition or results of operations.


 


    (3) The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, as
    amended.  This Act regulates the discharge of
    pollutants from a variety of sources, including solid waste
    disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters of the
    United States. Point source runoff from our landfills and
    transfer stations that is discharged into surface waters must be
    covered by discharge permits that generally require us to
    conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain
    circumstances, reduce the quantity of pollutants in those
    discharges. Storm water discharge regulations under this Act
    require a permit for certain construction activities and
    discharges from industrial operations and facilities, which may
    affect our operations. If a landfill or transfer station
    discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly
    owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge
    limits imposed by that treatment works. In addition, states may
    adopt groundwater protection programs under this Act or the Safe
    Drinking Water Act that could affect solid waste landfills.
    Furthermore, development which alters or affects wetlands must
    generally be permitted prior to such development commencing, and
    certain mitigation requirements may be required by the
    permitting agencies.


 


    (4) The Clean Air Act, as amended.  The
    Clean Air Act imposes limitations on emissions from various
    sources, including landfills. In March 1996, the U.S. EPA
    promulgated regulations that require large municipal solid waste
    landfills to install landfill gas monitoring systems. These
    regulations apply to landfills that commenced construction,
    reconstruction or modification on or after May 30, 1991,
    and, principally, to landfills that can accommodate
    2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste.
    The regulations apply whether the landfill is active or closed.
    The date by which each affected landfill is required to have a
    gas collection and control system installed and made operational
    varies depending on calculated emission rates at the landfill.
    Many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring
    systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas.


 


    (5) The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as
    amended.  This Act authorizes the Occupational
    Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of
    Labor to promulgate occupational safety and health standards. A
    number of these standards, including standards for notices of
    hazardous chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our
    facilities and operations.


 


    State Regulation.  Each state in which we
    operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste
    disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases
    and cleanup of hazardous substances and liability for such
    matters. States also have adopted regulations governing the
    design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and
    transfer stations. Our facilities and operations are likely to
    be subject to these types of requirements. In addition, our
    solid waste collection and landfill operations may be affected
    by the trend in many states toward requiring the development of
    solid waste reduction and recycling programs. For example,
    several states have enacted laws that require counties or
    municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through
    solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs,
    the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills. Additionally,
    laws and regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste
    in solid waste landfills, including yard waste,



    
    10



Table of Contents




    newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid
    batteries and household appliances, have been promulgated in
    several states and are being considered in others. Legislative
    and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction
    at the source and waste recycling also are or have been under
    consideration by the U.S. Congress and the U.S. EPA,
    respectively.


 


    In order to construct, expand and operate a landfill, one or
    more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and
    land use approvals, must be obtained. These  permits and
    approvals may be difficult and time-consuming to obtain and to
    operate in compliance with, are often opposed by neighboring
    landowners and citizens’ groups, may be subject to periodic
    renewal, and are subject to modification, non-renewal and
    revocation by the issuing agency. In connection with our
    acquisition of existing landfills, it may be and on occasion has
    been necessary for our company to expend considerable time,
    effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into
    compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the
    permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity.


 


    Many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks
    which are generally used to store petroleum-based products.
    These tanks are generally subject to federal, state and local
    laws and regulations that mandate their periodic testing,
    upgrading, closure and removal, and that, in the event of leaks,
    require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. We
    believe that all of our underground storage tanks currently meet
    all applicable regulations. If underground storage tanks we own
    or operate leak, and the leakage migrates onto the property of
    others, we could be liable for response costs and other damages
    to third parties. We are unaware of facts indicating that issues
    of compliance with regulations related to underground storage
    tanks will have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows.


 


    Finally, with regard to our solid waste transportation
    operations, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface
    Transportation Board and are regulated by the Federal Highway
    Administration, Office of Motor Carriers, and by regulatory
    agencies in states that regulate such matters. Various states
    have enacted or promulgated, or are considering enacting or
    promulgating, laws and regulations that would restrict the
    interstate transportation and processing of solid waste. In
    1978, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a law that
    restricts the importation of
    out-of-state
    solid waste was unconstitutional; however, states have attempted
    to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and
    implicated by that ruling. In 1994, the Supreme Court ruled that
    a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from
    leaving its place of generation, imposed an impermissible burden
    upon interstate commerce, and, therefore, was unconstitutional;
    however, states have also attempted to distinguish proposed laws
    from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. In
    response to these Supreme Court rulings, the U.S. Congress
    has considered passing legislation authorizing state and local
    governments to restrict the free movement of solid waste in
    interstate commerce. If federal legislation authorizing state
    and local governments to restrict the free movement of solid
    waste in interstate commerce is enacted, such legislation could
    adversely affect our operations.


 


    We have established liabilities for landfill and environmental
    costs, which include landfill site final capping, closure and
    post-closure costs. We periodically reassess such costs based on
    various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace and
    the technical requirements of Subtitle D of RCRA and adjust our
    rates used to expense final capping, closure and post-closure
    costs accordingly. Based on current information and regulatory
    requirements, we believe that our liabilities recorded for such
    landfill and environmental expenditures are adequate. However,
    environmental laws may change, and there can be no assurance
    that our recorded liabilities will be adequate to cover
    requirements under existing or new environmental laws and
    regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing laws
    and regulations, or the identification of adverse environmental
    conditions previously unknown to us.


 



    Liability
    Insurance and Bonding


 


    The nature of our business exposes our company to the risk of
    liabilities arising out of our operations, including possible
    damages to the environment. Such potential liabilities could
    involve, for example, claims for remediation costs, personal
    injury, property damage and damage to the environment in cases
    where we may be held responsible for the escape of harmful
    materials; claims of employees, customers or third parties for
    personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of
    our operations; or claims alleging negligence in the planning or
    performance of work. We could also be subject to fines and civil
    and criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of



    
    11



Table of Contents




    regulatory requirements. Because of the nature and scope of the
    possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed in
    environmental litigation can be significant. Our solid waste
    operations have third-party environmental liability insurance
    with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations,
    subject to certain limitations and exclusions. However, we
    cannot assure you that the limits of such environmental
    liability insurance would be adequate in the event of a major
    loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry
    excess environmental liability insurance should market
    conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs
    prohibitive.


 


    We have general liability, vehicle liability, employment
    practices liability, pollution liability, directors and officers
    liability, worker’s compensation and employer’s
    liability coverage, as well as umbrella liability policies to
    provide excess coverage over the underlying limits contained in
    these primary policies. We also carry property insurance.
    Although we try to operate safely and prudently and while we
    have, subject to limitations and exclusions, substantial
    liability insurance, no assurance can be given that we will not
    be exposed to uninsured liabilities which could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.


 


    Our insurance programs for worker’s compensation, general
    liability, vehicle liability and employee-related health care
    benefits are effectively self-insured. Claims in excess of
    self-insurance levels are fully insured subject to policy
    limits. Accruals are based on claims filed and actuarial
    estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not
    reported. Due to the variable condition of the insurance market,
    we have experienced, and may continue to experience in the
    future, increased self-insurance retention levels and increased
    premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance through
    higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in
    our self-insurance reserves and expense.


 


    In the normal course of business, we may be required to post
    performance bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit
    and/or cash
    or marketable securities deposits in connection with municipal
    residential collection contracts, the operation, closure or
    post-closure of landfills, certain remediation contracts,
    certain environmental permits, and certain business licenses and
    permits as a financial guarantee of our performance. To date, we
    have satisfied financial responsibility requirements by making
    cash or marketable securities deposits or by obtaining bank
    letters of credit, insurance policies or surety bonds.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we employed approximately
    13,000 full-time employees, approximately 3,500 of whom
    were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our management
    believes that we have good relations with our employees.


 



    Compensation


 


    We believe that our compensation program effectively aligns our
    field and corporate management team with the company’s
    overall goal of generating increasing amounts of free cash flow
    while achieving targeted earnings and returns on invested
    capital. This is done by utilizing simple and measurable metrics
    on which incentive pay is based. At the field level, these
    metrics are based on free cash flow, earnings and return on
    invested capital for each manager’s geographic area of
    responsibility. Great effort is taken to ensure that these goals
    agree with the overall goals of the company. Incentive
    compensation at the corporate level is based on the obtainment
    of our company’s overall goals. In addition, certain field
    and corporate employees also participate in a long-term
    incentive program. We believe this program aligns our
    company’s short- and long-term goals and helps ensure that
    the long-term success of our company is not sacrificed for the
    obtainment of short-term goals.


 



    Availability
    of Reports and Other Information


 


    Our corporate website is http://www.republicservices.com. We
    make available on this website, free of charge, access to our
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A and amendments to those
    materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
    15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically submit such
    material to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our
    corporate website also contains our Corporate Governance
    Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Charters of the Nominating and
    Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation
    Committee of the Board of Directors. In addition, the
    Commission’s website is



    
    12



Table of Contents




    http://www.sec.gov. The Commission makes available on this
    website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information
    statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us,
    that file electronically with the Commission. Information on our
    website or the Commission’s website is not part of this
    document.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 



    Risk
    Factors


 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    includes “forward-looking statements” within the
    meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, including, in particular, certain statements
    about our plans, strategies and prospects. Although we believe
    that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or
    suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we
    cannot assure you that such plans, intentions or expectations
    will be achieved. Important factors that could cause our actual
    results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements
    include those set forth in this Risk Factors section. All
    forward-looking statements attributable to us or any persons
    acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety
    by the cautionary statements set forth below. Unless the context
    requires otherwise, all references to the “company,”
    “we,” “us” or “our” include
    Republic Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries.


 


    If any of the following risks, or other risks not presently
    known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant,
    develop into actual events, then our business, financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could
    be materially adversely affected.


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive industry and may be unable to
    compete effectively.


 


    We operate in a highly competitive business environment. Some of
    our competitors have significantly larger operations and may
    have significantly greater financial resources than we do. In
    addition, the solid waste industry is constantly changing as a
    result of consolidation which may create additional competitive
    pressures in our business environment.


 


    We also compete with municipalities that maintain their own
    waste collection or disposal operations. These municipalities
    may have a financial advantage over us as a result of the
    availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing.


 


    We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of
    price and the quality of services. From time to time, our
    competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort
    to expand their market share or to win competitively bid
    municipal contracts.


 


    In each market in which we own or operate a landfill, we compete
    for solid waste volume on the basis of disposal or
    “tipping” fees, geographic location and quality of
    operations. Our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our
    landfills may be limited by the fact that some major collection
    companies also own or operate landfills to which they send their
    waste. In markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill,
    our collection operations may operate at a disadvantage to fully
    integrated competitors.


 


    As a result of these factors, we may have difficulty competing
    effectively from time to time.


 



    Economic
    conditions could adversely affect our business, operations and
    internal growth.


 


    Previous economic slowdowns have negatively impacted the portion
    of our collection business servicing the manufacturing sector
    and the residential and non-residential construction industries.
    Landfill volumes attributable to manufacturing and construction
    activity have also been impacted. A slowdown in the economy in
    any of the markets we service could adversely affect volumes,
    pricing and operating margins in our collection, transfer and
    disposal operations.


 



    An
    increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Our operations are dependent on fuel, which we generally
    purchase in the open market on a daily basis. Direct fuel costs
    include the cost of fuel and other petroleum-based products used
    to operate our fleet of vehicles and heavy equipment. We are
    also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel costs which
    include fuel surcharges from vendors,



    
    13



Table of Contents




    increased construction and excavation costs, and increases in
    the costs of other petroleum-based products such as synthetic
    landfill liners. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, we experienced
    significant increases in the cost of fuel and other
    petroleum-based products. A portion of these increases was
    passed on to our customers. However, because of the competitive
    nature of the waste industry, there can be no assurance that we
    will be able to pass on current or future increases in fuel
    prices to our customers. Due to a number of factors including
    political instability in oil-producing countries, fuel prices
    may continue to fluctuate significantly in 2007. A significant
    increase in fuel costs could adversely affect our business.


 



    We may be
    unable to execute our financial strategy.


 


    Our ability to execute our financial strategy is dependent upon
    our ability to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior
    debt. The credit rating process is contingent upon a number of
    factors, many of which are beyond our control.


 


    Our financial strategy is also dependent upon our ability to
    generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing
    business, fund our internal growth, acquire other solid waste
    businesses, repurchase shares of our common stock, pay
    dividends, minimize our borrowings and take other actions to
    enhance shareholder value. We cannot assure you that we will be
    successful in executing our broad-based pricing program, that we
    will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial
    strategy, that we will continue to repurchase our common stock,
    or that we will be able to pay cash dividends or increase the
    amount of our dividends.


 



    We may be
    unable to manage our growth effectively.


 


    Our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial,
    operational and management resources. In order to continue our
    growth, we will need to add administrative and other personnel,
    and make additional investments in operations and systems. We
    cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train
    qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our
    operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required.


 



    We may be
    unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy.


 


    Our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on
    our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition
    candidates as well as our ability to successfully consolidate
    acquired operations into our business. The consolidation of our
    operations with the operations of acquired companies, including
    the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and
    facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of
    anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business
    efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management,
    particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. We
    cannot assure you that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified,



 


     
        • 

    
    we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified,



 


     
        • 

    
    we will effectively consolidate companies which are acquired and
    fully or timely realize expected cost savings, economies of
    scale or business efficiencies, or



 


     
        • 

    
    any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings.





 


    Additional factors may negatively impact our acquisition growth
    strategy. Our acquisition strategy may require spending
    significant amounts of capital. If we are unable to obtain
    additional needed financing on acceptable terms, we may need to
    reduce the scope of our acquisition growth strategy, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. The
    intense competition among our competitors pursuing the same
    acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for solid
    waste businesses and increase our capital requirements
    and/or
    prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. If any
    of the aforementioned factors force us to alter our growth
    strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected.


 



    Businesses
    we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities.


 


    In pursuing our acquisition strategy, our investigations of the
    acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed
    liabilities of the acquisition candidates. If we acquire a
    company having undisclosed liabilities,



    
    14



Table of Contents




    as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed
    liabilities. We typically try to minimize our exposure to such
    liabilities by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the
    acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the
    purchase price as security for the indemnification and by
    acquiring only specified assets. However, we cannot assure you
    that we will be able to obtain indemnifications or that they
    will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope
    or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising
    from our acquisitions.


 



    Our
    financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that
    may differ from actual results.


 


    Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and
    necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions
    made by us. Actual results could differ from these amounts.
    Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions
    include the carrying value of long-lived assets, the depletion
    and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for
    final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation
    allowances for accounts receivable, liabilities for potential
    litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for
    environmental remediation, deferred taxes and self-insurance.


 


    We cannot assure you that our liabilities recorded for landfill
    and environmental costs will be adequate to cover the
    requirements of existing environmental regulations, future
    changes to or interpretations of existing regulations, or the
    identification of adverse environmental conditions previously
    unknown to us.


 



    Changes
    in insurance markets may impact our financial results.


 


    Due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have
    experienced, and may continue to experience in the future,
    increased self-insurance retention levels and increased
    premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance through
    higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in
    our self-insurance reserves and expense.


 



    We depend
    on key personnel.


 


    Our future success depends on the continued contributions of
    several key employees and officers. We do not maintain key man
    life insurance policies on any of our officers. The loss of the
    services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is
    through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract
    additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations and
    growth prospects.


 



    Compliance
    with environmental and other laws and regulations may impede our
    growth and impact our financial results.


 


    We may need to spend considerable time, effort and capital to
    keep our facilities in compliance with federal, state and local
    requirements regulating health, safety, environment, zoning,
    land use and transportation. In addition, some of our waste
    operations that cross state boundaries could be adversely
    affected if the federal government, or the state or locality in
    which these waste operations are located, imposes fees on, or
    otherwise limits or prohibits, the transportation or disposal of
    solid waste. If environmental laws become more stringent, our
    environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental
    compliance may increase in the future. In addition, due to the
    possibility of unanticipated events or regulatory developments,
    the amounts and timing of future environmental expenditures
    could vary substantially from those we currently anticipate.
    Because of the nature of our operations, we have in the past,
    currently are, and may in the future be named as a potentially
    responsible party in connection with the investigation or
    remediation of environmental conditions. We cannot assure you
    that the resolution of any such investigations will not have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows. A significant judgment or fine against
    our company, or our loss of significant permits or licenses due
    to modification, non-renewal or revocation by the issuing
    agency, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flows or growth prospects.



    
    15



Table of Contents



 



    Regulatory
    approval to develop or expand our landfills and transfer
    stations may be delayed or denied.


 


    Our plans include developing new landfills and transfer
    stations, as well as expanding the disposal and transfer
    capacities of certain of our landfills and transfer stations,
    respectively. Various parties, including citizens’ groups
    and local politicians, sometimes challenge these projects.
    Responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our
    costs and extended the time associated with establishing new
    facilities and expanding existing facilities. In addition,
    failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit
    us from establishing new facilities and expanding existing
    facilities.


 



    Seasonal
    changes or severe weather may adversely affect our business and
    operations.


 


    Our operations may be adversely affected by periods of inclement
    or severe weather which could increase the volume of waste
    collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding
    compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste,
    reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or
    delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and
    other facilities.


 



    The
    outcome of audits by the Internal Revenue Service may adversely
    affect our company.


 


    The Internal Revenue Service is auditing our consolidated tax
    returns for fiscal years 2001 through 2004. No assurance can be
    given with respect to the outcome of the audits for these
    periods or the effect they may have on us, or that our reserves
    with respect thereto are adequate. A significant assessment
    against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    position, results of operations or cash flows.


 



    ITEM 1B