Item 1A. Risk Factors.


 



    Operating
    Strategy


 


    We seek to leverage existing assets and revenue growth to
    increase operating margins and enhance shareholder value. Our
    operating strategy for accomplishing this goal includes the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    utilize the extensive industry knowledge and experience of our
    executive management team,




 



     
        •  

    
    integrate waste operations,




 



     
        •  

    
    utilize a decentralized management structure in overseeing
    day-to-day
    operations,







    
    4



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    improve operating margins through economies of scale, cost
    efficiencies and asset utilization,




 



     
        •  

    
    achieve high levels of customer satisfaction, and




 



     
        •  

    
    utilize business information systems to improve consistency in
    financial and operational performance.





 


    Experienced Executive Management Team. We
    believe that we have one of the most experienced executive
    management teams in the solid waste industry.


 


    James E. O’Connor, who has served as our Chief Executive
    Officer (CEO) since December 1998, also became our Chairman in
    January 2003. He worked at Waste Management, Inc. from 1972 to
    1978 and from 1982 to 1998. During that time, he served in
    various management positions, including Senior Vice President in
    1997 and 1998, and Area President of Waste Management of
    Florida, Inc. from 1992 to 1997. Mr. O’Connor has
    35 years of experience in the solid waste industry.


 


    Donald W. Slager became our President and Chief Operating
    Officer (COO) upon our merger with Allied in December 2008.
    Prior to the merger, Mr. Slager worked for Allied from 1992
    through 2008 and served in various management positions,
    including President and COO from 2004 through 2008 and Executive
    Vice President and COO from 2003 to 2004. From 2001 to 2003,
    Mr. Slager served as Senior Vice President, Operations. He
    held various management positions at Allied from 1992 to 2003,
    and was previously General Manager at National Waste Services,
    where he served in various management positions since 1985.
    Mr. Slager has over 24 years of experience in the
    solid waste industry.


 


    Tod C. Holmes has served as our Chief Financial Officer (CFO)
    since August 1998. Mr. Holmes served as our Vice President
    of Finance from June 1998 until August 1998 and as Vice
    President of Finance of our former parent company’s Solid
    Waste Group from January 1998 until June 1998. From 1987 to
    1998, Mr. Holmes served in various management positions
    with Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc., including Vice President,
    Investor Relations from 1996 to 1998, Divisional Vice President,
    Collection Operations from 1995 to 1996, Divisional Vice
    President and Regional Controller — Northern Region
    from 1993 to 1995, and Divisional Vice President and Assistant
    Corporate Controller from 1991 to 1993. Mr. Holmes has over
    22 years of experience in the solid waste industry.


 


    Our regional senior vice presidents have an average of
    22 years of experience in the industry.


 


    Continuing Merger Integration Strategy. On
    December 5, 2008 we completed our merger with Allied. We
    believe that our merger integration strategy is well underway,
    and we continue to believe this merger is different from
    historical attempts to consolidate the waste industry for a
    number of reasons, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Two Mature Companies. Most previous attempts to
    consolidate the waste industry focused on a “roll up”
    strategy often involving relatively young companies solely
    focused on increasing revenue through acquisitions. Our merger
    with Allied involved two mature companies with similar business
    practices and performance metrics that have been developed and
    refined over the course of a number of years. We believe that
    the combination of our maturity and proven business practices
    and performance metrics has been a critical component of our
    success in 2009 and will be a critical component of our future
    success.




 



     
        •  

    
    Best Practices. Our merger also affords us the
    opportunity to select the best tools and systems and to adopt
    the best practices of two successful companies. Republic had a
    history of financial discipline evident in the consistent
    generation of increasing levels of free cash flow. Allied was
    noted for its integrated operations and focus on procurement. We
    believe that our merger has given us an unique opportunity to
    combine the strengths of these two successful organizations and
    create a
    best-in-class
    waste management company.




 



     
        •  

    
    Timely and Focused Integration Process. We are
    acutely aware that previous acquisitions in the waste management
    and other industries failed because of a lack of focus on
    integration. As such, we began to develop our integration
    process and strategy in June 2008, long before our merger was
    consummated. Our process identified specific integration related
    tasks focused on all levels of the








    
    5



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    organization, especially our individual business units. We
    engaged employees at all levels of the company to develop a
    detailed integration plan and to ensure that each of our
    employees understands their role in the process. The integration
    process is well underway and is ahead of schedule.





 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Strong Operating Platform. The merger has created a
    company with a strong, national operating platform. The
    foundation of this platform is our large network of disposal
    sites. This disposal network provides us with a far stronger
    vertically integrated operating structure than either company
    would have been able to achieve on its own. We believe that our
    improved vertically integrated operations will be a key driver
    of our future profitability.




 



     
        •  

    
    Complementary Operations and Cultures. The overlay
    of our operating locations reflects another compelling attribute
    of our merger. Republic and Allied operated complementary
    geographies and shared very similar cultures that are centered
    on a commitment to providing “industry-leading solid waste
    and environmental services that exceed our customers’
    highest expectations.”




 



     
        •  

    
    Significant Synergies. Prior to the effective date
    of our merger with Allied, we identified $150 million of
    annual run-rate integration synergies. We also developed a
    detailed plan for realizing this goal that includes
    participation at all levels throughout the company from the
    drivers of our fleet of collection vehicles to our board of
    directors. This plan anticipated achieving $100 million of
    annual run-rate integration synergies by the end of fiscal 2009.
    As of December 31, 2009, we have already met our original
    goal of $150 million of run-rate synergies and have
    increased our total goal for annual run-rate synergies to
    $165 million to $175 million. We expect to achieve
    this goal by the end of 2010.




 



     
        •  

    
    Strong Capital Structure. Republic enjoys a strong
    capital structure and investment grade credit ratings
    post-merger. Our combination with Allied has created a company
    that produces substantial annual free cash flow. This strong
    cash producing characteristic will allow us to pursue our
    mission of increasing shareholder value by focusing on investing
    in our business, paying down our debt, funding dividends and
    reinstituting our share repurchase program.





 


    Decentralized Management Structure. We rely
    on a decentralized management structure to minimize
    administrative overhead costs and to manage our
    day-to-day
    operations more efficiently. Our local management has extensive
    industry experience in growing, operating and managing solid
    waste companies and has substantial experience in their local
    geographic markets. Each regional management team includes a
    senior vice president, vice president-controller, vice president
    of human resources, vice president of sales, vice president of
    operations support, director of safety, director of engineering
    and environmental management, and director of market planning
    and development. We believe that our strong regional management
    teams allow us to more effectively and efficiently drive our
    initiatives and help ensure consistency throughout our
    organization. Our regional management teams and our area
    presidents have extensive authority, responsibility and autonomy
    for operations within their respective geographic markets.
    Compensation for our area management teams is primarily based on
    improving operating income produced and the free cash flow and
    return on invested capital generated in each manager’s
    geographic area of responsibility. In addition, through
    long-term incentive programs, including stock options, we
    believe we have achieved one of the lowest turnover levels in
    the industry for our local management teams. As a result of
    retaining experienced managers with extensive knowledge of and
    involvement in their local communities, we are proactive in
    anticipating our customers’ needs and adjusting to changes
    in our markets. We also seek to implement the best practices of
    our various regions and areas throughout our operations to
    improve operating margins.


 


    Integrated Operations. We seek to achieve a
    high rate of internalization by controlling waste streams from
    the point of collection through disposal. We expect that our
    fully integrated markets generally will have a lower cost of
    operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated
    markets. Through acquisitions, landfill operating agreements and
    other market development activities, we create market-specific,
    integrated operations typically consisting of one or more
    collection companies, transfer stations and landfills. We
    consider acquiring companies that own or operate landfills with
    significant permitted disposal capacity and appropriate levels
    of waste volume. We also seek to acquire solid waste collection
    companies in markets in which we own or operate landfills. In
    addition, we generate internal growth in our disposal operations
    by developing new landfills and expanding our existing landfills
    from time to time in markets in which we have





    
    6



Table of Contents





    significant collection operations or in markets that we
    determine lack sufficient disposal capacity. During the years
    ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 68% and
    58%, respectively, of the total waste volume that we collected
    was disposed at landfill sites that we own or operate
    (internalization). This increase in internalization is due to a
    higher concentration of integrated hauling and landfill
    operations acquired in our merger with Allied. In a number of
    our larger markets, we and our competitors are required to take
    waste to government-controlled disposal facilities
    (flow-control). This provides us with an opportunity to
    effectively compete in these markets without investing in
    landfill capacity. Because we do not have landfill facilities or
    government-controlled disposal facilities for all markets in
    which we provide collection services, we believe that landfill
    and transfer station acquisitions, operating agreements, and
    market development give us the opportunity to increase our waste
    internalization rate and further integrate our operations. By
    further integrating operations in existing markets, we may be
    able to reduce our disposal costs.


 


    Economies of Scale, Cost Efficiencies and Asset
    Utilization. We continue to identify and implement
    best practices throughout our organization with the goal of
    permanently improving overall operating and financial results.
    These best practice initiatives focus on critical areas of our
    operations such as landfill operations, truck routing,
    maintenance and related service efficiencies, purchasing and
    administrative activities. The consolidation of acquired
    businesses into existing operations reduces costs by decreasing
    capital and expenses used for truck routing, personnel,
    equipment and vehicle maintenance, inventories and back-office
    administration. Generally, we consolidate our acquired
    administrative centers to reduce our general and administrative
    costs. Of particular benefit are the opportunities associated
    with the blending of operations as a result of the Allied
    merger. Scheduled for full completion by the first half of 2010,
    these markets offer the potential for marked improvement in
    operating results. Generally speaking, there are significant
    opportunities in these markets to leverage economies of scale
    and the existing asset base, while realizing improved operating
    efficiencies. Upon the completion of the integration of Allied,
    our goal is to maintain our selling, general and administrative
    costs at no more than 10.0% of revenue, which we believe is
    appropriate given our existing business platform. In addition,
    our procurement initiatives ensure that we negotiate the best
    volume discounts for goods and services purchased, including
    waste disposal rates at landfills operated by third parties.
    Furthermore, we have taken steps to maximize the utilization of
    our assets. For example, to reduce the number of collection
    vehicles and maximize the efficiency of our fleet and drivers,
    we use a route optimization program to minimize drive times and
    improve operating density. By using assets more efficiently,
    operating expenses can be reduced.


 


    High Levels of Customer Satisfaction. We
    strive to provide the highest level of service to our customer
    base. Our policy is to periodically visit each commercial
    account to ensure customer satisfaction and to verify that we
    are providing the appropriate level of service. In addition to
    visiting existing customers, a salesperson develops a base of
    prospective customers within each market. We also have municipal
    marketing representatives in most service areas that are
    responsible for working with each municipality or community to
    which we provide residential service to ensure customer
    satisfaction. Additionally, the municipal representatives
    organize and drive the effort to obtain new or renew municipal
    contracts in their service areas.


 


    Focus on Systems Utilization. We continue to
    invest in the integration and expansion of our information
    systems and technology platform. Our future platform will
    consist of
    best-in-class
    legacy systems from both Republic and Allied. During 2009, we
    converted the entire company to a single payable and general
    ledger system. Additionally, we made significant progress in
    converting to a single operating system. We expect to complete
    our operating system conversion by the third quarter of 2010. In
    addition, during January 2010, we converted the entire company
    to a single payroll and human resource system. Our future
    technology related initiatives will include customer
    relationship management, billing, productivity and maintenance
    systems. We believe that the combination of these systems will
    prove to be a competitive advantage for our company.


 


    For certain risks related to our operating strategy, see
    Item 1A. Risk Factors.




    
    7



Table of Contents






    Growth
    Strategy


 


    Our growth strategy focuses on increasing revenue, gaining
    market share and enhancing shareholder value through internal
    growth and acquisitions. We manage our growth strategy as
    follows:


 


    Internal Growth. Our internal growth strategy
    focuses on retaining existing customers and obtaining new
    commercial, municipal and industrial customers through our
    well-managed sales and marketing activities.


 




    
    



        •  

        Pricing Activities. We seek to secure price
    increases necessary to offset increased costs, to improve our
    operating margins and to obtain adequate returns on our
    substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. During
    2009, we continued to secure broad-based price increases across
    all lines of our business to offset various escalating capital
    and operating costs. Price increases will remain a major
    component of our overall future operating strategy.




 



        •  

        Long-Term Contracts. We seek to obtain long-term
    contracts for collecting solid waste in markets with growing
    populations. These include exclusive franchise agreements with
    municipalities as well as commercial and industrial contracts.
    By obtaining such long-term agreements, we have the opportunity
    to grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the
    underlying population growth in these markets. We believe it is
    important to have secured exclusive, long-term franchise
    agreements in growing market areas. We believe that this
    positions us to experience internal growth rates that are
    generally higher than our industry’s overall growth rate.
    In addition, we believe that by securing a base of long-term
    recurring revenue in growing population markets, we are better
    able to protect our market position from competition and our
    business may be less susceptible to downturns in economic
    conditions.




 



        •  

        Sales and Marketing Activities. We seek to manage
    our sales and marketing activities to enable us to capitalize on
    our leading position in many of the markets in which we operate.
    We provide a National Accounts program in response to the needs
    of our national clients, centralizing services to effectively
    manage their needs, such as minimizing their procurement costs.
    We currently have approximately 1,000 sales and marketing
    employees in the field who are compensated using a commission
    structure that is focused on generating high levels of quality
    revenue. For the most part, these employees directly solicit
    business from existing and prospective commercial, industrial,
    municipal and residential customers. We emphasize our rate and
    cost structures when we train new and existing sales personnel.
    In addition, we utilize a customer relationship management
    system that assists our sales people in tracking leads. It also
    tracks renewal periods for potential commercial, industrial and
    franchise contracts.




 



        •  

        Development Activities. We seek to identify
    opportunities to further our position as an integrated service
    provider in markets where we provide services for a portion of
    the waste stream. Where appropriate, we seek to obtain permits
    to build transfer stations, recycling facilities, and landfills
    that would provide vertically integrated waste services or
    expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites.
    Development projects, while generally less capital intensive
    than acquiring such projects, typically require extensive
    permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no
    assurance of success. We undertake development projects when we
    believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where
    reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available.





 


    Acquisition Growth. We look to acquire
    businesses that complement our existing business platform. Our
    acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on privately held
    solid waste companies and the waste operations of municipal and
    other local governmental authorities. We believe that our
    ability to acquire privately held companies is enhanced by
    increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing
    capital requirements as a result of changes in solid waste
    regulatory requirements, and the limited number of exit
    strategies for these privately held companies’ owners. We
    also seek to acquire operations and facilities from
    municipalities that are privatizing, as they seek to increase
    available capital and reduce risk. In addition, we will continue
    to evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities
    that are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies.
    In sum, our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on the
    following:


 




    
    



        •  

        acquiring privately held businesses that position us for growth
    in existing and new markets,




 



        •  

        acquiring well-managed companies and, when appropriate,
    retaining local management, and







    
    8



Table of Contents




 




    
    



        •  
    
    acquiring operations and facilities from municipalities that are
    privatizing and from publicly owned companies that are divesting
    of assets.





 


    We also seek to acquire landfills, transfer stations and
    collection companies that operate in markets that we are already
    servicing in order to fully integrate our operations from
    collection to disposal. In addition, we have in the past and may
    continue in the future to exchange businesses with other solid
    waste companies if by doing so there is a net benefit to our
    business platform. These activities allow us to increase our
    revenue and market share, lower our cost of operations as a
    percentage of revenue, and consolidate duplicative facilities
    and functions to maximize cost efficiencies and economies of
    scale.


 


    For certain risks related to our growth strategy, see
    Item 1A. Risk Factors.


 



    Operations


 


    Our operations primarily consist of the collection, transfer and
    disposal of non-hazardous solid waste.


 


    Collection Services. We provide solid waste
    collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and
    residential customers through 376 collection companies. In 2009,
    76.9% of our revenue was derived from collection services.
    Within the collection line of business, 35% of our revenue is
    from services provided to municipal and residential customers,
    40% is from services provided to commercial customers, and 25%
    is from services provided to industrial and other customers.


 


    Our residential collection operations involve the curbside
    collection of refuse from small containers into collection
    vehicles for transport to transfer stations or directly to
    landfills. Residential solid waste collection services are
    typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which
    we generally secure by competitive bid and which give us
    exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in
    their respective jurisdictions. These contracts or franchises
    usually range in duration from one to five years, although some
    of our exclusive franchises are for significantly longer
    periods. Residential solid waste collection services may also be
    performed on a subscription basis, in which individual
    households contract directly with us. The fees received for
    subscription residential collection are based primarily on
    market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance to
    the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. In general,
    subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in
    advance by the residential customers receiving the service.


 


    In our commercial and industrial collection operations, we
    supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. We
    also rent compactors to large waste generators. Commercial
    collection services are generally performed under one- to
    three-year service agreements, and fees are determined by
    considerations such as market factors, collection frequency,
    type of equipment furnished, the type and volume or weight of
    the waste collected, transportation costs, the distance to the
    disposal facility, and the cost of disposal.


 


    We also provide waste collection services to industrial and
    construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms
    ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. Our
    construction services are provided to the commercial
    construction and home building sectors. We collect the
    containers or compacted waste and transport the waste either to
    a landfill or a transfer station for disposal.


 


    We also provide recycling services in certain markets in
    compliance with local laws or the terms of our franchise
    agreements. These services include the curbside collection of
    residential recyclable waste and the provision of a variety of
    recycling services to commercial and industrial customers.


 


    Transfer and Disposal Services. We own or
    operate 223 transfer stations. We deposit waste at these
    transfer stations, as do other private haulers and municipal
    haulers, for compaction and transfer to trailers for transport
    to disposal sites or recycling facilities. In 2009, transfer and
    disposal services accounted for 18.9% of our revenue.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we owned or operated 192 active
    landfills, which had approximately 35,000 permitted acres and
    total available permitted and probable expansion disposal
    capacity of approximately 4.6 billion in-place cubic yards.
    The in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change
    based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory
    authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in
    compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to
    successfully renew operating permits and obtain





    
    9



Table of Contents





    expansion permits at our sites. Some of our landfills accept
    non-hazardous special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and
    contaminated soils.


 


    Most of our active landfill sites have the potential for
    expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted
    acreage. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal
    capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue
    an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste
    volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and
    likelihood of obtaining an expansion. To satisfy future disposal
    demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at
    certain of our landfills. However, we cannot assure you that all
    proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed.


 


    We also have responsibility for 132 closed landfills, for which
    we have associated closure and post-closure obligations.


 


    Landfill Gas and Renewable Energy
    Projects. During 2009, we brought eleven landfill
    gas-to-energy
    projects on line, bringing our total number of such projects to
    74 or over one third of our active landfills. These projects
    consist of the following:


 




    
    



        •  

        51 electric generating plants powered by landfill gas,




 



        •  

        14 medium Btu plants that provide landfill gas to industrial
    users,




 



        •  

        6 high Btu plants that produce pipeline quality gas, and




 



        •  

        3 projects that use landfill gas to power leachate evaporating
    equipment.





 


    Our 51 electric projects generate 323 megawatts of electricity,
    enough to power approximately 192,000 homes. Our 23 other
    projects provide or process more than 58,000 square cubic
    feet per minute of gas, enough to heat almost 200,000 homes. The
    environmental benefit of all of our projects combined is the
    equivalent of removing nearly 4 million cars from the road.


 


    During 2009, we also combined a
    first-of-its-kind
    solar technology with an existing
    gas-to-energy
    system which turned our Tessman Road Landfill in
    San Antonio, Texas into a sustainable energy park. A closed
    portion of the landfill is now capped with a Solar Energy Cover,
    developed by Republic, which generates electricity for homes and
    businesses in the surrounding area. We expect to install a
    similar system at one or more of our landfills during 2010.


 


    Many of our landfills that do not have
    gas-to-energy
    or renewable energy projects are capable of supporting such
    projects. As a result, we intend to bring several of these
    projects on line each year for many years to come.


 


    Recycling Facilities and Other Services. We
    own or operate 78 materials recovery facilities and other
    recycling operations. These facilities sort recyclable paper,
    aluminum, glass and other materials. Most of these recyclable
    materials are internally collected by our residential collection
    operations. In some areas, we receive commercial and industrial
    solid waste that is sorted at our facilities into recyclable
    materials and non-recyclable waste. The recyclable materials are
    salvaged, repackaged and sold to third parties, and the
    non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or incinerators.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    We seek to provide quality services that will enable us to
    maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. We derive our
    business from a broad customer base, which we believe will
    enable us to experience stable growth. We focus our marketing
    efforts on continuing and expanding our business with existing
    customers, as well as attracting new customers.


 


    We employ approximately 1,000 sales and marketing employees. Our
    sales and marketing strategy is to provide high-quality,
    comprehensive solid waste collection, recycling, transfer and
    disposal services to our customers at competitive prices. We
    target potential customers of all sizes, from small quantity
    generators to large “Fortune 500” companies and
    municipalities.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    Most of our marketing activity is local in nature. However, we
    also provide a national accounts program in response to the
    needs of some of our national and regional customers. Our
    national accounts program is designed to provide the best total
    solution to our customers’ evolving waste management needs
    in an environmentally responsible manner. We partner with our
    national clients to reach their sustainability goals, optimize
    waste streams, balance equipment and service intervals, and
    provide customized reporting. The national accounts program
    centralizes services to effectively manage customer needs, while
    helping minimize procurement costs. With our extended geographic
    reach, our national accounts program effectively serves
    40 states and Puerto Rico. As industry leaders, our mission
    is to utilize our strengths and expertise to exceed customer
    expectations by consistently delivering the best national
    program available.


 


    We generally do not change the trade names of the local
    businesses we acquire, and therefore we do not operate
    nationally under any one mark or trade name.


 



    Customers


 


    We provide services to a broad base of commercial, industrial,
    municipal and residential customers. No one customer has
    individually accounted for more than 5% of our consolidated
    revenue or of our reportable segment revenue in any of the last
    three years.


 



    Competition


 


    We operate in a highly competitive industry. Entry into our
    business and the ability to operate profitably in the industry
    require substantial amounts of capital and managerial experience.


 


    Competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from
    a few large, national publicly owned companies, including Waste
    Management, Inc., several regional publicly and privately owned
    solid waste companies, and thousands of small privately owned
    companies. In any given market, competitors may have larger
    operations and greater resources. In addition to national and
    regional firms and numerous local companies, we compete with
    municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal
    operations. These municipalities may have financial advantages
    due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing.


 


    We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of
    price and the quality of our services. From time to time, our
    competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort
    to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal
    contract. Our ability to increase prices in certain markets may
    be impacted by the pricing policies of our competitors. This may
    have an impact on our future revenue and profitability.


 



    Seasonality
    and Severe Weather


 


    Our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement
    or severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste
    collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding
    compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste,
    reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or
    delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and
    other facilities.


 



    Regulation


 


    Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of
    federal, state and local requirements that regulate the
    environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use.
    Operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals
    generally are required for landfills and transfer stations,
    certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and
    other facilities that we own or operate. These permits are
    subject to denial, revocation, modification and renewal in
    certain circumstances. Federal, state and local laws and
    regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or storm water
    discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation,
    treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous
    waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the
    release or threatened release of hazardous substances. These
    laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with
    strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to
    revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain
    injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the case of
    violations, including





    
    11



Table of Contents





    criminal penalties. The U.S. Environmental Protection
    Agency (EPA) and various other federal, state and local
    authorities administer these regulations.


 


    We strive to conduct our operations in compliance with
    applicable laws, regulations and permits. However, in the
    existing climate of heightened environmental concerns, from time
    to time we have been issued citations or notices from
    governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to
    expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various
    landfills and other facilities. We cannot assure you that
    citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite
    our regulatory compliance efforts. We have established final
    capping, closure, post-closure and remediation liabilities that
    we believe, based on currently available information, will be
    adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs.
    However, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed
    our reserves. Refer to the Contractual Obligations table within
    Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
    contained elsewhere herein for further information.


 


    Federal Regulation. The following summarizes
    the primary federal environmental and occupational health and
    safety-related statutes that affect our facilities and
    operations:


 




    
    



        •  
    
    The Solid Waste Disposal Act, including the Resource
    Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). RCRA establishes a
    framework for regulating the handling, transportation,
    treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous
    solid waste, and requires states to develop programs to ensure
    the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills.





 


    Subtitle D of RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the
    disposal of municipal solid waste. Regulations under Subtitle D
    currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management
    criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions,
    facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure
    and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards,
    groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action
    standards, many of which had not commonly been in effect or
    enforced in the past in connection with municipal solid waste
    landfills. Each state was required to submit to the EPA a permit
    program designed to implement Subtitle D regulations by
    April 9, 1993. All of the states in which we operate have
    implemented permit programs pursuant to RCRA and Subtitle D.
    These state permit programs may include landfill requirements
    which are more stringent than those of Subtitle D. Our failure
    to comply with the environmental requirements of federal, state
    and local authorities at any of our locations may lead to
    temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit.


 


    All of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill
    development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed
    Subtitle D requirements. Operating and design criteria for
    existing operations have been modified to comply with these
    regulations. Compliance with Subtitle D regulations has resulted
    in increased costs and may in the future require substantial
    additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally
    associated with our waste management activities.


 




    
    



        •  
    
    The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
    Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA). CERCLA, among other things,
    provides for the cleanup of sites from which there is a release
    or threatened release of a hazardous substance into the
    environment. CERCLA may impose strict joint and several
    liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural
    resources upon current owners and operators of a site, parties
    who were owners or operators of a site at the time the hazardous
    substances were disposed of, parties who transported the
    hazardous substances to a site and parties who arranged for the
    disposal of the hazardous substances at a site. Under the
    authority of CERCLA and its implementing regulations, detailed
    requirements apply to the manner and degree of investigation and
    remediation of facilities and sites where hazardous substances
    have been or are threatened to be released into the environment.
    Liability under CERCLA is not dependent on the existence or
    disposal of only “hazardous wastes,” but can also be
    based upon the existence of small quantities of more than 700
    “substances” characterized by the EPA as
    “hazardous,” many of which are found in common
    household waste.





 


    Among other things, CERCLA authorizes the federal government to
    investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances
    have been or are threatened to be released into the environment
    or to order (or offer an opportunity to) persons potentially
    liable for the cleanup of the hazardous substances to do so.





    
    12



Table of Contents





    In addition, the EPA has established a National Priorities List
    of sites at which hazardous substances have been or are
    threatened to be released and which require investigation or
    cleanup.


 


    CERCLA liability is strict liability. It can be founded upon the
    release or threatened release, even as a result of
    unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of hazardous
    substances, including very small quantities of such substances.
    Thus, even if we have never knowingly transported or received
    hazardous waste, it is likely that hazardous substances have
    been deposited or “released” at landfills or other
    properties owned by third parties where we have transported to
    and disposed of waste or at our landfills or at other properties
    that we currently own or operate or may have owned or operated.
    Therefore, we could be liable under CERCLA for the cost of
    cleaning up such hazardous substances at such sites and for
    damages to natural resources, even if those substances were
    deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them.
    The costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be very expensive. Given the
    difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment
    liability, such liability could have a material impact on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 




    
    



        •  

        The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (the
    Clean Water Act). This act regulates the discharge of pollutants
    from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites,
    into streams, rivers and other waters of the United States.
    Point source runoff from our landfills and transfer stations
    that is discharged into surface waters must be covered by
    discharge permits that generally require us to conduct sampling
    and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, reduce the
    quantity of pollutants in those discharges. Storm water
    discharge regulations under the Clean Water Act require a permit
    for certain construction activities and discharges from
    industrial operations and facilities, which may affect our
    operations. If a landfill or transfer station discharges
    wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly owned treatment
    works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by
    that treatment works. In addition, states may adopt groundwater
    protection programs under the Clean Water Act or the Safe
    Drinking Water Act that could affect solid waste landfills.
    Furthermore, development which alters or affects wetlands
    generally must be permitted prior to such development
    commencing, and permitting agencies may require mitigation.




 



        •  

        The Clean Air Act. The Clean Air Act imposes
    limitations on emissions from various sources, including
    landfills. In March 1996, the EPA promulgated regulations that
    require large municipal solid waste landfills to install
    landfill gas monitoring systems. These regulations apply to
    landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or
    modification on or after May 30, 1991, and, principally, to
    landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or
    more of municipal solid waste. The regulations apply whether the
    landfill is active or closed. The date by which each affected
    landfill is required to have a gas collection and control system
    installed and made operational varies depending on calculated
    emission rates at the landfill. Efforts to curtail the emission
    of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effect of climate
    change may require our landfills to deploy more stringent
    emission controls, with resulting capital or operating costs.
    See Item 1A. Risk Factors
    — “Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions
    could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we
    cannot yet estimate.” Many state regulatory agencies also
    currently require monitoring systems for the collection and
    control of certain landfill gas.




 



        •  

        The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970
    (OSHA). OSHA authorizes the Occupational Safety and
    Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor to
    promulgate occupational safety and health standards. A number of
    these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous
    chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities
    and operations.





 


    State and Local Regulation. Each state in
    which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing
    solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most
    cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and
    liabilities for such matters. States also have adopted
    regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and
    closure of landfills and transfer stations. Some counties,
    municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar
    laws and regulations. Our facilities and operations are likely
    to be subject to these types of requirements. In addition, our
    solid waste collection and landfill operations may be affected
    by the trend in many states toward requiring the development of
    solid waste reduction and recycling programs. For example,
    several states have enacted laws that require counties or
    municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through
    solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs,
    the volume of solid waste deposited in





    
    13



Table of Contents





    landfills. Additionally, laws and regulations restricting the
    disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including
    yard waste, newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires,
    lead-acid batteries, electronic wastes and household appliances,
    have been promulgated in several states and are being considered
    in others. Legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or
    encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also
    have been or are under consideration by the U.S. Congress
    and the EPA.


 


    To construct, operate and expand a landfill, we must obtain one
    or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and
    land use approvals. These permits and approvals may be difficult
    and time-consuming to obtain and to operate in compliance with,
    are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens’
    groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to
    denial, modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing
    agency. In connection with our acquisition of existing
    landfills, we may be required to expend considerable time,
    effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into
    compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the
    permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity.


 


    Other Regulations. Many of our facilities own
    and operate underground storage tanks that are generally used to
    store petroleum-based products. These tanks are generally
    subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that
    mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal,
    and that, in the event of leaks, require that polluted
    groundwater and soils be remediated. We believe that all of our
    underground storage tanks currently meet all applicable
    regulations. If underground storage tanks we own or operate
    leak, we could be liable for response costs and, if the leakage
    migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for
    damages to third parties. We are unaware of facts indicating
    that issues of compliance with regulations related to
    underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on
    our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.


 


    With regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are
    subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board
    and are regulated by the Federal Highway Administration, Office
    of Motor Carriers, and by regulatory agencies in states that
    regulate such matters. Various states and local government
    authorities have enacted or promulgated, or are considering
    enacting or promulgating, laws and regulations that would
    restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county,
    or other jurisdiction lines. In 1978, the U.S. Supreme
    Court ruled that a law that restricts the importation of
    out-of-state
    solid waste was unconstitutional; however, states have attempted
    to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and
    implicated by that ruling. In 1994, the Supreme Court ruled that
    a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from
    leaving its place of generation, imposed an impermissible burden
    upon interstate commerce, and, therefore, was unconstitutional.
    In 2007, the Supreme Court upheld the right of a local
    government to direct the flow of solid waste to a publicly owned
    waste facility. A number of county and other local jurisdictions
    have enacted ordinances or other regulations restricting the
    free movement of solid waste across jurisdictional boundaries.
    Other governments may enact similar regulations in the future.
    These regulations may, in some cases, cause a decline in volumes
    of waste delivered to our landfills or transfer stations and may
    increase our costs of disposal, thereby adversely affecting our
    operations.


 


    Liabilities Established for Landfill and Environmental
    Costs. We have established liabilities for landfill
    and environmental costs, which include landfill site final
    capping, closure and post-closure costs. We periodically
    reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions
    regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of
    Subtitle D of RCRA, and we adjust our rates used to expense
    final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based
    on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe
    that our liabilities recorded for such landfill and
    environmental expenditures are adequate. However, environmental
    laws may change, and we cannot assure you that our recorded
    liabilities will be adequate to cover requirements under
    existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future
    changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or
    adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us.


 



    Liability
    Insurance and Bonding


 


    The nature of our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities
    arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the
    environment. Such potential liabilities could involve, for
    example, claims for remediation costs, personal injury, property
    damage and damage to the environment in cases where we may be
    held





    
    14



Table of Contents





    responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of
    employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or
    property damage occurring in the course of our operations; or
    claims alleging negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning
    or performance of work. We could also be subject to fines and
    civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged
    violations of regulatory requirements. Because of the nature and
    scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed
    in environmental litigation can be significant. Our solid waste
    operations have third party environmental liability insurance
    with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations,
    subject to certain limitations and exclusions. However, we
    cannot assure you that such environmental liability insurance
    would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major
    loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry
    excess environmental liability insurance should market
    conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs
    prohibitive.


 


    We have general liability, vehicle liability, employment
    practices liability, pollution liability, directors and
    officers’ liability, workers’ compensation and
    employer’s liability coverage, as well as umbrella
    liability policies to provide excess coverage over the
    underlying limits contained in these primary policies. We also
    carry property insurance. Although we try to operate safely and
    prudently and we have, subject to limitations and exclusions,
    substantial liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we
    will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities that could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 


    Our insurance programs for workers’ compensation, general
    liability, vehicle liability and employee-related health care
    benefits are effectively self-insured. Claims in excess of
    self-insurance levels are insured subject to the excess policy
    limits and exclusions. Accruals are based on claims filed and
    actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred
    but not reported. Due to the variable condition of the insurance
    market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future,
    increased self-insurance retention levels and increased
    premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance through
    higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in
    our self-insurance reserves and expense.


 


    In the normal course of business, we post performance bonds,
    insurance policies, letters of credit, or cash or marketable
    securities deposits in connection with municipal residential
    collection contracts, the operation, closure or post-closure of
    landfills, environmental remediation, environmental permits, and
    business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our
    performance. To date, we have satisfied financial responsibility
    requirements by making cash or marketable securities deposits or
    by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or
    surety bonds.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately
    31,000 full-time employees, approximately 27% of whom were
    covered by collective bargaining agreements. From time to time,
    our operating locations may experience union organizing efforts.
    We have not historically experienced any significant work
    stoppages. We currently have no disputes or bargaining
    circumstances that we believe could cause significant
    disruptions in our business. Our management believes that we
    have good relations with our employees.


 



    Availability
    of Reports and Other Information


 


    Our corporate website is
    http://www.republicservices.com.
    We make available on this website, free of charge, access to our
    Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to those
    materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
    15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. We make such
    materials available as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically submit them to the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC). Our corporate website also contains our
    Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Charters of
    the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit
    Committee and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
    In addition, the SEC website is
    http://www.sec.gov.
    The SEC makes available on this website, free of charge,
    reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the
    SEC. Information on our website or the SEC website is not part
    of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under
    Item 5.05 of





    
    15



Table of Contents





    Form 8-K
    and applicable New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules regarding
    amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics by posting this
    information on our website at www.republicservices.com.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1A. 

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    contains certain forward-looking information about us that is
    intended to be covered by the safe harbor for
    “forward-looking statements” provided by the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words
    such as “expect,” “will,” “may,”
    “anticipate,” “plan,” “estimate,”
    “project,” “intend,” “should,”
    “can,” “likely,” “could” and
    similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
    statements. These statements include statements about the
    expected benefits of the merger, our plans, strategies and
    prospects. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of
    performance. These statements are based upon the current beliefs
    and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and
    uncertainties, including the risks set forth below in these risk
    factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially
    from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the
    forward-looking information and statements.


 


    In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors,
    the results anticipated by the forward-looking statements
    discussed in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    may not occur. You should not place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation,
    we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised
    forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances
    after the date of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


 



    We
    have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial
    flexibility.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    $7.4 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases
    outstanding. This amount of indebtedness and our debt service
    requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access
    additional capital and make capital expenditures and other
    investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and
    interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our
    business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and
    other restrictive covenants of our debt instruments. Further,
    our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants
    contained in our debt instruments may be affected by changes in
    economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond
    our control. If we do not comply with these covenants and
    restrictions, we may be required to take actions such as
    reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing dividends,
    selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our
    existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital.


 



    The
    downturn in the U.S. economy may continue to have an adverse
    impact on our operating results.


 


    A weak economy generally results in decreases in the volumes of
    waste generated. In 2009, weakness in the U.S. economy had
    a negative effect on our revenue, operating results and
    operating cash flows. The current and previous economic
    slowdowns have negatively impacted the portion of our collection
    business servicing the manufacturing and construction industries
    and our proceeds from sales of recycled commodities. As a result
    of the global economic crisis, we may experience the negative
    effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer
    turnover as well. We cannot assure you that worsening economic
    conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a
    significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, we
    cannot assure you that an improvement in economic conditions
    will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our
    consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.


 



    The
    downturn in the U.S. economy may expose us to credit risk for
    amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts
    and others.


 


    The weak U.S. economy has reduced the amount of taxes
    collected by various governmental agencies. We provide services
    to a number of these agencies including numerous municipalities.
    These governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties
    resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be





    
    16



Table of Contents





    unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. In addition, the
    weak economy may cause other customers, including our large
    national accounts, to suffer financial difficulties and
    ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us.
    This could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 



    The
    downturn in the U.S. economy and in the financial markets could
    expose us to counter-party risk associated with our
    derivatives.


 


    To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in various commodities
    and interest rates, we have entered into a number of derivative
    agreements. These derivative agreements require us or the
    counter-party to such agreements to make payments to the other
    party if the price of certain commodities or interest rates vary
    from a specified amount. A continued downturn in the
    U.S. economy or in the financial markets could adversely
    impact the financial stability of the counter-parties with which
    we do business, potentially limiting their ability to fulfill
    their obligations under our derivative agreements. This could
    have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    The
    waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors
    that may have greater financial and operational resources,
    flexibility to reduce prices and other competitive advantages
    that could make it difficult for us to compete
    effectively.


 


    We principally compete with large national waste management
    companies, municipalities and numerous regional and local
    companies for collection and disposal accounts. Competition for
    collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality
    of services. Competition for disposal business is primarily
    based on disposal costs, geographic location and quality of
    operations. Some of our competitors may have greater financial
    and operational resources than us. Many counties and
    municipalities that operate their own waste collection and
    disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or
    tax-exempt financing. Our ability to obtain solid waste volume
    for our landfills may also be limited by the fact that some
    major collection companies also own or operate landfills to
    which they send their waste. In markets in which we do not own
    or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at
    a disadvantage to fully integrated competitors. As a result of
    these factors, we may have difficulty competing effectively from
    time to time or in certain markets. If we were to lower prices
    to address these competitive issues, it could negatively impact
    our revenue growth and profitability.


 



    Price
    increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased
    costs and may cause us to lose volume.


 


    We seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased
    costs (including fuel and environmental costs), to improve
    operating margins and to obtain adequate returns on our
    substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. From
    time to time, our competitors may reduce their prices in an
    effort to expand their market share. Contractual, general
    economic or market-specific conditions may also limit our
    ability to raise prices. As a result, we may be unable to offset
    increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain
    adequate investment returns through price increases. We may also
    lose volume to lower-cost competitors.


 



    Increases
    in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals will increase our
    operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we will be
    able to recover fuel or oil cost increases from our
    customers.


 


    We depend on fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and
    other equipment used for collection, transfer, and disposal. We
    buy fuel in the open market. Fuel prices are unpredictable and
    can fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control,
    including geopolitical developments, actions by the Organization
    of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas
    producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and
    unrest in oil-producing countries, and regional production
    patterns. We may not be able to offset such volatility through
    fuel surcharges. For example, our fuel costs were
    $349.8 million in 2009, representing 7.2% of our cost of
    operations compared to $235.3 million in 2008, representing
    9.7% of our cost of operations. This decrease in fuel
    costs as a percent of our cost of operations primarily reflects
    a decrease in the price of fuel.




    
    17



Table of Contents





    In order to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we
    have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or
    make payments to counter-parties if the price of fuel varies
    from a specified amount. However, we do not hedge our entire
    fuel usage. During 2009, only 6.4% of our fuel purchases were
    hedged.


 


    Over the last several years, regulations have been adopted
    mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions and, in
    October 2009, the EPA indicated it will establish the first
    U.S. standards for greenhouse gas emissions from
    automobiles. The regulations could affect the type of fuel our
    trucks use and could materially increase the cost and
    consumption of our fuel. Our operations also require the use of
    products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary
    with the price of petrochemicals. An increase in the price of
    petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which
    would increase our operating and capital costs. We are also
    susceptible to increases in indirect fuel surcharges from our
    vendors.


 



    Fluctuations
    in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may
    adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results
    of operations and cash flows.


 


    We process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard,
    plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties.
    Our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or
    market requirements for recyclable materials. The resale and
    purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials
    can be volatile due to changes in economic conditions and
    numerous other factors beyond our control. These fluctuations
    may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    Adverse
    weather conditions may limit our operations and increase the
    costs of collection and disposal.


 


    Our collection and landfill operations could be adversely
    impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by
    increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting in
    the future from climate change, any of which could increase the
    volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without
    corresponding compensation), interfere with collection and
    landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity
    or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. In
    addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary
    suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our
    operating results in the affected regions during those periods.


 



    We
    currently have matters pending with the Internal Revenue Service
    (the “IRS”), which could result in large cash
    expenditures and could have a material adverse impact on our
    operating results and cash flows.


 


    We are currently under examination by the IRS with regard to
    Allied’s federal income tax returns for tax years 2007 and
    2008, and Allied’s 2000 through 2006 federal income tax
    returns are at appeals. Republic is under audit for its 2007 and
    2008 federal income tax returns, and under examination for its
    2008 federal income tax return.


 


    During its examination of Allied’s 2002 tax year, the IRS
    asserted that a 2002 redemption of four partnership interests in
    waste-to-energy
    businesses should have been recharacterized as disguised sale
    transactions. This issue is currently before the Appeals
    Division of the IRS. The Company believes its position is
    supported by relevant technical authorities and strong business
    purpose and we intend to vigorously defend our position on this
    matter. The potential tax and interest through December 31,
    2009 (to the extent unpaid) have been fully reserved in our
    consolidated balance sheet. A disallowance would not materially
    affect our consolidated results of operations; however, a
    deficiency payment would adversely impact our cash flow in the
    period the payment was made. The accrual of additional interest
    charges through the time this matter is resolved will affect our
    consolidated results of operations. In addition, the successful
    assertion by the IRS of penalty and penalty-related interest in
    connection with this matter could have a material adverse impact
    on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 


    Additionally, during its examination of Allied’s 2000
    through 2003 tax years, the IRS proposed that certain landfill
    costs be allocated to the collection and control of methane gas
    that is naturally emitted from landfills. The IRS’ position
    is that the methane gas emitted by a landfill constitutes a
    joint product resulting from landfill operations and, therefore,
    associated costs should not be expensed until the methane gas is
    sold or otherwise disposed. We believe we have several
    meritorious defenses, including the fact that methane gas is





    
    18



Table of Contents





    not actively produced for sale by us but rather arises naturally
    in the context of providing disposal services. Therefore, we
    believe that the resolution of this issue will not have a
    material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position,
    results of operations or cash flows.


 


    For additional information on these matters, see Note 10,
    Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements in
    Item 8 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    Other matters may also arise in the course of tax audits that
    could adversely impact our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.


 



    We may
    be unable to execute our financial strategy.


 


    Our ability to execute our financial strategy depends on our
    ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt.
    The credit rating process is contingent upon a number of
    factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure
    you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade
    ratings in the future. Our interest expense would increase and
    our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be
    adversely affected should we fail to maintain investment grade
    ratings.


 


    Our financial strategy is also dependent on our ability to
    generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing
    business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste
    businesses, pay dividends, reduce indebtedness and minimize
    borrowings, and take other actions to enhance shareholder value.
    We cannot assure you that: we will be successful in executing
    our broad-based pricing program; we will generate sufficient
    cash flow to execute our financial strategy; we will be able to
    pay cash dividends at our present rate, that we will be able to
    increase the amount of such dividends, or that we will be able
    to reinstitute our share repurchase program.


 



    A
    downgrade in our bond ratings could adversely affect our
    liquidity by increasing the cost of debt and financial assurance
    instruments.


 


    While downgrades of our bond ratings may not have an immediate
    impact on our cost of debt or liquidity, they may impact our
    cost of debt and liquidity over the near to medium term. If the
    rating agencies downgrade our debt, this may increase the
    interest rate we must pay to issue new debt, and it may even
    make it prohibitively expensive for us to issue new debt. If our
    debt ratings are downgraded, future access to financial
    assurance markets at a reasonable cost, or at all, also may be
    adversely impacted.


 



    The
    solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and the
    amount we spend on capital expenditures may exceed current
    expectations, which could require us to obtain additional
    funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our
    business.


 


    Our ability to remain competitive and to grow and expand our
    operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and
    access to capital. If our capital efficiency programs are unable
    to offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be
    necessary to increase the amount we spend. Additionally, if we
    make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount
    we expend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure and
    environmental remediation expenditures will increase. Our cash
    needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping,
    closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above
    our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to
    changes in federal, state or local government requirements and
    other factors beyond our control. Increases in expenditures
    would negatively impact our cash flows.


 


    Over the last several years, regulations have been adopted
    mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions. These
    regulations have caused some increases in the costs of the
    collection vehicles we buy. The EPA recently has indicated it
    intends to adopt further regulations addressing greenhouse gas
    emissions from automobiles. As a result, we could experience an
    increase in capital costs. This also could cause an increase in
    vehicle operating costs or a reduction in operating efficiency.
    We may reduce the number of vehicles we purchase until
    manufacturers adopt the new standards to increase efficiency.




    
    19



Table of Contents






    We may
    be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand
    existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could
    decrease our revenue and increase our costs.


 


    We cannot assure you that we will successfully obtain or
    maintain the permits we require to operate our business because
    permits to operate non-hazardous solid waste landfills and to
    expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills have become
    more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. Permits
    often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and
    compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and
    other regulations. These permits are also often subject to
    resistance from citizen or other groups and other political
    pressures. Local communities and citizen groups, adjacent
    landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a
    permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits
    under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which
    we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for
    environmental damage. Responding to these challenges has, at
    times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with
    establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities.
    In addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval
    may prohibit us from establishing new facilities, maintaining
    permits for our facilities or expanding existing facilities. Our
    failure to obtain the required permits to operate our
    non-hazardous solid waste landfills could have a material
    adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results
    of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may have to
    dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors
    or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our
    landfills, either of which could significantly increase our
    waste disposal costs.


 


    The waste industry is subject to extensive government
    regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our
    operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to
    make additional capital expenditures.


 



    If we
    inadequately accrue for landfill capping, closure and
    post-closure costs, our financial condition and results of
    operations may be adversely affected.


 


    A landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure
    maintenance commenced, once the permitted capacity of the
    landfill is reached and additional capacity is not authorized.
    We have significant financial obligations relating to capping,
    closure and post-closure costs at our existing owned or operated
    landfills, and will have material financial obligations with
    respect to any future owned or operated landfills. We establish
    accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping,
    closure and post-closure financial obligations. We could
    underestimate such accruals, and our financial obligations for
    capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amount
    accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds
    established for this purpose. Such a shortfall could result in
    significant unanticipated charges to income. Additionally, if a
    landfill is required to be closed earlier than expected or its
    remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals
    for capping, closure and post-closure could be required to be
    accelerated, which could have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    We
    cannot assure you that we will continue to operate our landfills
    at current volumes due to the use of alternatives to landfill
    disposal caused by state requirements or voluntary
    initiatives.


 


    Most of the states in which we operate landfills require
    counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to
    reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through
    waste planning, composting and recycling, or other programs.
    Some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the
    source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes,
    such as yard waste, at landfills. Although such actions are
    useful in protecting our environment, these actions, as well as
    voluntary private initiatives by customers to reduce waste or
    seek disposal alternatives, have and may in the future reduce
    the volume of waste going to landfills in certain areas. If this
    occurs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our
    landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for
    landfill disposal services due to the decrease in demand for
    such services.




    
    20



Table of Contents






    The
    possibility of landfill and transfer station site development
    projects, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being
    completed or certain other events could result in a material
    charge to income.


 


    We capitalize certain expenditures relating to development,
    expansion and other projects. If a facility or operation is
    permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a
    development or expansion project is not completed or is
    determined to be impaired, we will charge any unamortized
    capitalized expenditures to income relating to such facility or
    project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or
    otherwise. In future periods, we may incur charges against
    earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may
    cause impairments. Such charges could have a material adverse
    impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We are
    subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control
    regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our
    operations and subject us to additional liability.


 


    Complying with laws and regulations governing the use,
    treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous
    wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the
    remediation of contamination associated with the release of
    hazardous substances is costly. Laws and regulations often
    require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify
    landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. We
    cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price
    increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these
    laws and regulations. In addition, environmental regulatory
    changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping,
    closure and post-closure, and environmental and remediation
    activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend
    sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes.


 


    Our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are, and may
    in the future continue to be, affected by state or local laws or
    regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste
    across state, county or other jurisdictional lines. Such laws
    and regulations could negatively affect our operations,
    resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of
    alternate disposal.


 


    In addition to the costs of complying with environmental
    regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought
    by government agencies and private parties who may allege we are
    in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws
    and regulations, or who assert claims alleging environmental
    damage, personal injury or property damage. As a result, we may
    be required to pay fines or implement corrective measures, or we
    may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. A
    significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant
    permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could
    have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows. We establish
    accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our
    environmental obligations. We could underestimate such accruals
    and remediation costs could exceed amounts accrued. Such
    shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to
    income.


 



    Regulation
    of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our
    operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet
    estimate.


 


    Efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases (GHGs), to
    ameliorate the effect of climate change, continue to advance on
    the federal, regional, and state level. Our landfill operations
    emit methane, identified as a GHG. In June 2009, the
    U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill that would
    regulate GHGs comprehensively. While the centerpiece of that
    bill would be a GHG emission allowance
    cap-and-trade
    system, landfills would not be compelled to hold allowances for
    their GHG emissions. Rather, they would be subject to certain
    further emission controls to be determined through
    administrative rule-making. Senate passage of counterpart
    legislation, and whether such legislation would treat landfills
    in the same manner, is uncertain. Should comprehensive federal
    climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose
    costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot
    predict.


 


    Absent comprehensive federal legislation to control GHG
    emissions, EPA is moving ahead administratively under its
    existing Clean Air Act authority. In October 2009, EPA published
    a Proposed Prevention of Significant Deterioration and
    Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule (“PSD tailoring
    rule”). The proposed rule would set new thresholds for GHG
    emissions that define when Clean Air Act permits would be
    required and





    
    21



Table of Contents





    would “tailor” these programs to limit which
    facilities would be required to obtain permits. EPA’s legal
    authority to “tailor” this rule in the manner it
    proposed has been challenged. If finalized as proposed, many of
    our landfills would be subject to the PSD tailoring rule, which
    could require permit amendments and additional emission
    controls. In December 2009, EPA finalized its finding that six
    GHGs endanger public health. While EPA made its finding in the
    context of regulating air emissions from motor vehicles, other
    Clean Air Act provisions appear to compel EPA to make comparable
    findings for stationary sources, such as landfills. We cannot
    predict the requirements or effective date of stationary source
    rules that might apply to landfills as a result of this
    endangerment finding and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that
    further developments in this area will not have a material
    effect on our landfill operations or on our consolidated
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


 



    We may
    have potential environmental liabilities that are not covered by
    our insurance. Changes in insurance markets also may impact our
    financial results.


 


    We may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the
    environment as a result of our operations. We maintain high
    deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage.
    If we were to incur substantial liability for environmental
    damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such
    liability. This could have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we
    may experience future increases in self-insurance levels as a
    result of increased retention levels and increased premiums. As
    we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention
    levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance
    reserves and expense.


 



    Despite
    our efforts, we may incur additional hazardous substances
    liability in excess of amounts presently known and
    accrued.


 


    We are a potentially responsible party at many sites under
    CERCLA, which provides for the remediation of contaminated
    facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for
    the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a
    facility at which there has been a release or a threatened
    release of a “hazardous substance,” on parties who
    were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances
    were disposed of, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of
    such substances at the facility (i.e., generators of the waste
    and transporters who selected the disposal site). Hundreds of
    substances are defined as “hazardous” under CERCLA and
    their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in
    substantial liability. Notwithstanding our efforts to comply
    with applicable regulations and to avoid transporting and
    receiving hazardous substances, we may have additional liability
    under CERCLA or similar laws in excess of our current reserves
    because such substances may be present in waste collected by us
    or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected,
    transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have
    acquired. Actual costs for these liabilities could be
    significantly greater than amounts presently accrued for these
    purposes, which could have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    Currently
    pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could
    result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or
    settlements.


 


    We are, and from time to time become, involved in lawsuits,
    regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal
    proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business.
    Many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual
    and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and
    complexities. The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits,
    regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal
    proceedings is uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes or
    resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or
    settlements, either of which could require substantial payments,
    adversely affecting our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.




    
    22



Table of Contents






    We may
    experience difficulties completing the integration of
    Allied’s business, and we may incur unexpected expenses in
    connection with that integration.


 


    Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger with Allied
    will depend significantly on whether we can continue to
    integrate Allied’s business in an efficient and effective
    manner. The ongoing integration may result in additional and
    unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the
    integration plan may not be fully realized. We may not be able
    to accomplish the integration process smoothly, successfully or
    on a timely basis. Any inability of our management to
    successfully and timely integrate the operations of the two
    companies could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    We may
    not realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits from
    the merger with Allied fully or within the timing
    anticipated.


 


    We believe our merger with Allied has been and will continue to
    be beneficial to our stockholders as a result of the actual and
    anticipated synergies resulting from the combined operations.
    While we are currently ahead of our original timeline, we may
    not be able to achieve the anticipated operating and cost
    synergies or the long-term strategic benefits of the merger
    fully or within the timing anticipated. For example, elimination
    of duplicative costs may not be fully achieved or may take
    longer than anticipated. For at least the first year after an
    acquisition, and possibly longer, the benefits from the
    acquisition will be offset by the costs incurred in integrating
    the businesses and operations. The inability to realize the full
    extent of the anticipated synergies or other benefits of the
    merger, or our encountering unexpected costs or delays in the
    integration process (which may delay the timing of such
    synergies or other benefits), could have a material adverse
    effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We may
    be unable to manage our growth effectively.


 


    Our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial,
    operational and management resources. To continue our growth, we
    may need to add administrative and other personnel, and will
    need to make additional investments in operations and systems.
    We cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train
    qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our
    operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required.


 



    We may
    be unable to execute our acquisition growth
    strategy.


 


    Our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on
    our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition
    candidates as well as our ability to successfully consolidate
    acquired operations into our business. The consolidation of our
    operations with those of acquired companies may present
    significant challenges to our management. In addition,
    competition among our competitors for acquisition candidates may
    prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. As
    such, we cannot assure you that:


 




    
    



        •  

        desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified;




 



        •  

        we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified;




 



        •  

        we will effectively consolidate companies we acquire; or




 



        •  

        any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings.





 


    If any of the aforementioned factors force us to alter our
    growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely
    affected.


 



    Businesses
    we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities.


 


    In pursuing our acquisition strategy, our due diligence
    investigations of the acquisition candidates may fail to
    discover certain undisclosed liabilities of the acquisition
    candidates. If we acquire a company having undisclosed
    liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual,
    as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed
    liabilities. We expect to try to minimize our exposure to such
    liabilities by





    
    23



Table of Contents





    conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each
    of the sellers of the acquired companies, by deferring payment
    of a portion of the purchase price as security for the
    indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. However,
    we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain
    indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be
    enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or
    duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising
    from our acquisitions.


 



    Our
    consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and
    assumptions that may differ from actual results.


 


    Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
    accordance with U.S. GAAP and necessarily include amounts based
    on estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results
    could differ from these amounts. Significant items requiring
    management to make subjective or complex judgments about matters
    that are inherently uncertain include the carrying value of
    long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill
    development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and
    post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable
    and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation,
    claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental
    remediation, employee benefit and pension plans, deferred taxes,
    uncertain tax positions and self-insurance.


 


    We cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for landfill
    and environmental costs will be adequate to cover the
    requirements of existing environmental regulations, future
    changes to or interpretations of existing regulations, or the
    identification of adverse environmental conditions previously
    unknown to management.


 



    The
    introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could
    adversely impact our results of operations.


 


    Complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could
    adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows, or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our
    results of operations in future periods.


 



    We may
    be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages,
    which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our
    operations.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, approximately 27% of our workforce
    was represented by various local labor unions. If our unionized
    workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other
    slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our
    operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could
    have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if a greater
    percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our business and
    financial results could be materially and adversely impacted due
    to the potential for increased operating costs.


 



    Our
    obligation to fund multi-employer pension plans to which we
    contribute may have an adverse impact on us.


 


    We contribute to at least 25 multi-employer pension plans
    covering at least 17% of our current employees. We do not
    administer these plans and generally are not represented on the
    boards of trustees of these plans. The Pension Protection Act
    enacted in 2006 (the PPA) requires under-funded pension plans to
    improve their funding ratios. Based on the information available
    to us, we believe that some of the multi-employer plans to which
    we contribute are either “critical” or
    “endangered” as those terms are defined in the PPA. We
    cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding,
    if any, we may be required to make to these plans and,
    therefore, have not recorded any related liabilities. However,
    plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of
    operations or cash flows for a given period. Furthermore, under
    current law, upon the termination of a multi-employer pension
    plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider
    from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing
    employers (each, a “Withdrawal Event”), we would be
    required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate
    share of the plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. We cannot
    assure you that there will not be a Withdrawal Event with
    respect to any of the multi-employer pension plans to which we
    contribute or that, in the event of such a Withdrawal Event, the
    amounts we would be





    
    24



Table of Contents





    required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact
    on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 



    The
    costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding
    requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and
    fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material
    adverse impact on our results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan which is funded with
    trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and
    equity securities. Our costs for providing such benefits and
    related funding requirements are subject to changes in the
    market value of plan assets. Our pension expenses and related
    funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial
    calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from
    actual results due to changing market and economic conditions,
    interest rates and other factors. A significant increase in our
    pension obligations and funding requirements could have a
    material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    The
    loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on
    our consolidated financial condition, results of operations,
    cash flows and growth prospects.


 


    Our future success depends on the continued contributions of
    several key employees and officers. The loss of the services of
    key employees and officers, whether such loss is through
    resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract
    additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flows and growth prospects.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B