Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors


 


    Starbucks is including this Cautionary Statement to make
    applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the
    “Act”) for forward-looking statements. This
    10-K
    includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
    Act. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact
    that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
    They often include words such as “believes,”
    “expects,” “anticipates,”
    “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,”
    “seeks” or words of similar meaning, or future or
    conditional verbs, such as “will,” “should,”
    “could,” “may,” “aims,”
    “intends,” or “projects.” A forward-looking
    statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future
    events or circumstances, and those future events or
    circumstances may not occur. Investors should not place undue
    reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as
    of the date of this Report. These forward-looking statements are
    all based on currently available operating, financial and
    competitive information and are subject to various risks and
    uncertainties. The Company’s actual future results and
    trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors,
    including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties
    discussed below.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Failure
    to meet market expectations for Starbucks financial performance
    will likely adversely affect the market price of Starbucks
    stock.





 


    The Company’s failure to meet market expectations going
    forward, particularly with respect to comparable store sales,
    net revenues, operating margins, and earnings per share, will
    likely result in a decline in the market price of Starbucks
    stock.



    
    8



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company may not be successful in implementing important new
    strategic initiatives, which may have a material adverse impact
    on its business and financial results.





 


    In fiscal 2008, the Company undertook the development and
    implementation of several important strategic initiatives as
    part of a transformation strategy designed to drive long-term
    shareholder value and improve Starbucks results of operations,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    improving the current state of the US business by refocusing on
    the customer experience in the stores, new products and store
    design elements, and new training and tools for the
    Company’s store partners to help them give customers a
    superior experience;




 



     
        • 

    
    slowing the Company’s pace of US store openings and closing
    a number of underperforming US store locations, enabling
    Starbucks to renew its focus on its store-level unit economics;




 



     
        • 

    
    re-igniting the emotional attachment with customers and
    restoring the connections customers have with
    Starbucks®

    coffee, brand, people and stores; and




 



     
        • 

    
    re-aligning Starbucks organization and streamlining the
    management to better support customer-focused initiatives and
    reallocating resources to key value drivers.





 


    There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
    successfully implement its new strategic initiatives or that its
    transformation plan will result in improved results of
    operations. If the Company does not successfully implement its
    new strategic initiatives, or if its transformation plan does
    not achieve its intended results, the Company may experience a
    material adverse impact on its business and financial results.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    is subject to a number of significant risks that might cause the
    Company’s actual results to vary materially from its
    forecasts, targets, plans, or projections,
    including:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which
    negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues,
    operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due
    to:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased
    competition generally;




 



     
        • 

    
    lack of customer acceptance of new products or price increases
    necessary to cover costs of new products
    and/or
    higher input costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which
    Starbucks operates, including, but not limited to, downturns in
    the housing market, higher interest rates, higher unemployment
    rates, lower disposable income due to higher energy or other
    consumer costs, lower consumer confidence, and other events or
    factors that adversely affect consumer spending, including the
    ongoing global financial crises;




 



     
        • 

    
    customers trading down to lower priced products within
    Starbucks,
    and/or
    shifting to competitors with lower priced products;




 



     
        • 

    
    declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee
    products; or




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse impacts due to negative publicity regarding the
    Company’s business practices or the health effects of
    consuming its products;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond the
    Company’s control, such as:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    commodity costs for commodities that cannot be effectively
    hedged, such as fluid milk, and to a lesser extent, high-
    quality arabica coffee (See also the discussion on
    page 6 under “Product Supply”);




 



     
        • 

    
    labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market
    wage levels and worker’s compensation insurance costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    litigation against Starbucks, particularly class action
    litigation;




 



     
        • 

    
    construction costs associated with new store openings;






    
    9



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    information technology costs and other logistical resources
    necessary to maintain and support the global growth of the
    Company’s business; and





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    delays in store openings for reasons beyond the Company’s
    control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available
    for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep the
    Company from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn,
    negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings
    per share;




 



     
        • 

    
    any material interruption in the Company’s supply chain
    beyond its control, such as material interruption of roasted
    coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of the
    Company’s roasting plants or the failures of third-party
    suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that
    ship goods within the Company’s distribution
    channels; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the impact on Starbucks business of factors such as labor
    discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting
    Starbucks), political instability in certain markets and natural
    disasters.





 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    global economic crisis could adversely affect the Company’s
    business and financial results and have a material adverse
    affect on Starbucks liquidity and capital
    resources.





 


    As the recent global financial crisis has broadened and
    intensified, other sectors of the economy have been adversely
    impacted and a severe global recession now appears likely. As a
    retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending,
    the Company will face an extremely challenging fiscal 2009
    because Starbucks customers may have less money for
    discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures,
    bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and sharply falling home
    prices. Any resulting decreases in customer traffic or average
    value per transaction will negatively impact the Company’s
    financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales
    de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins.
    Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the global
    financial crisis and a broader global economic downturn are
    currently unknown; any one or all of them could potentially have
    a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and
    capital resources, including Starbucks ability to issue
    commercial paper and to raise additional capital if needed, the
    ability of banks to honor draws on Starbucks credit facility, or
    otherwise negatively impact the Company’s business and
    financial results.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    is highly dependent on the financial performance of its United
    States operating segment.





 


    The Company’s financial performance is highly dependent on
    its United States operating segment, which comprised 76% of
    consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2008. The Company
    experienced a substantial down-turn in traffic in its US stores
    in fiscal 2008, which adversely affected the operating results
    of the US segment and the Company as a whole. If the US segment
    is unable to improve its financial performance, the
    Company’s business and financial results will continue to
    be adversely affected.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    may not fully realize the anticipated positive impacts to future
    financial results from the restructuring measures announced in
    July 2008.





 


    In July 2008, the Company announced several restructuring
    measures as part of the Company’s multi-faceted plan to
    transform its business and improve results of operations,
    including a plan to close approximately 600 underperforming
    Company-operated stores in the US market, a restructuring of the
    Australia market, and certain leadership and non-store
    organization changes. There can be no assurance that the Company
    will fully realize the anticipated positive impacts to future
    financial results from these restructuring measures. The
    estimated costs and charges associated with the US store
    closures are based on management’s assumptions and
    projections and may vary materially based on various factors,
    including the timing of store closures, the outcome of
    negotiations with landlords and other third parties, the
    Company’s ability to place affected partners (employees)
    into available positions at other Starbucks stores, and other
    changes in management’s assumptions and projections. As a
    result of these events and circumstances, delays and unexpected
    costs may occur, which could result in the Company not fully
    realizing the anticipated positive impact to the Company’s
    future financial results from such US store closures. Further,
    to the extent that the Company is unable to improve its
    financial performance in fiscal 2009, further restructuring
    measures may be required in the future.



    
    10



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    is increasingly dependent on the success of its International
    operating segment in order to achieve its growth
    targets.





 


    The Company’s future growth will increasingly depend on the
    growth and sustained profitability of its International
    operating segment. Some or all of the Company’s
    International market business units (“MBUs”), which
    Starbucks generally defines by the countries or regions in which
    they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in
    achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving
    consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. The performance of
    the International operating segment may be adversely affected by
    economic downturns in one or more of the Company’s large
    MBUs. Additionally, some factors that will be critical to the
    success of International MBUs are different than those affecting
    the Company’s US stores and licensees. Tastes naturally
    vary by region, and consumers in new international markets into
    which Starbucks and its licensees expand may not embrace
    Starbucks products to the same extent as consumers in the
    Company’s existing markets. Occupancy costs and store
    operating expenses are also sometimes higher internationally
    than in the United States due to higher rents for prime store
    locations or costs of compliance with country-specific
    regulatory requirements. Because many of the Company’s
    International operations are in an early phase of development,
    operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often
    higher compared to US operations. The Company’s
    International operations are also subject to additional inherent
    risks of conducting business abroad, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social
    and political conditions in the Company’s markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    interpretation and application of laws and regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictive actions of foreign or United States governmental
    authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including
    protective measures such as export and customs duties and
    tariffs and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership;




 



     
        • 

    
    import or other business licensing requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency
    exchange restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the
    population achieving targeted levels of disposable income may
    not be as fast as the Company forecasts;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign
    operations, including ensuring the consistency of product
    quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural
    differences; and




 



     
        • 

    
    local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate
    with, retain or terminate employees.





 


    Moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in
    developing counties, which are important to the Company’s
    long-term growth prospects.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    International segment is highly dependent on the financial
    performance of its Canada, Japan and UK markets; any significant
    increases in costs or significant declines in net revenues or
    profit contribution from one or more of these markets could have
    a material adverse impact on the results of operations of the
    International segment.





 


    Starbucks Canada, Japan and UK markets account for a significant
    portion of the net revenues and profit contribution of the
    Company’s International operating segment. Any significant
    decline in the financial performance of one of these key markets
    may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations
    of the entire Starbucks International segment, if not partially
    or fully offset by positive financial performance from the other
    two major markets.



    
    11



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    faces intense competition in the specialty coffee
    market.





 


    A description of the general competitive conditions in which
    Starbucks operates appears on page 7 under
    “Competition.” In the United States, the continued
    focus by one or more large competitors in the quick-service
    restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee
    beverages at a low cost has attracted Starbucks customers and
    could, if the numbers become large enough, adversely affect the
    Company’s sales and results of operations. Similarly,
    continued competition from well-established competitors in
    international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect
    the Company’s sales and results of operations in those
    markets. Increased competition from large competitors with
    significant resources in the United States packaged coffee and
    tea, and ready-to-drink coffee beverage market could adversely
    affect the profitability of the CPG segment and the
    Company’s results of operations. Given its premium brand,
    Starbucks may be impacted more severely than its competitors by
    customers trading down to lower priced coffee beverages and
    related products.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s success depends substantially on the value of the
    Starbucks brand.





 


    Starbucks believes it has built an excellent reputation globally
    for the quality of its products, for delivery of a consistently
    positive consumer experience and for its corporate social
    responsibility programs. The Starbucks brand has been highly
    rated in several global brand value studies. Management believes
    it must preserve and grow the value of the Starbucks brand to be
    successful in the future, particularly outside of North America,
    where the Starbucks brand is less well-known. Brand value is
    based in part on consumer perceptions as to a variety of
    subjective qualities. Even isolated business incidents that
    erode consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive
    considerable publicity or result in litigation, can
    significantly reduce brand value. Consumer demand for the
    Company’s products and its brand equity could diminish
    significantly if Starbucks fails to preserve the quality of its
    products, is perceived to act in an unethical or socially
    irresponsible manner or fails to deliver a consistently positive
    consumer experience in each of its markets.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining
    qualified personnel could jeopardize the Company’s ability
    to meet its financial targets.





 


    The Company’s success depends substantially on the
    contributions and abilities of key executives and other
    employees, and on its ability to recruit and retain high quality
    employees to work in and manage Starbucks stores. Starbucks must
    continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other
    employees sufficient to maintain its current business and
    support its projected growth. A loss of key employees or a
    significant shortage of high quality store employees could
    jeopardize the Company’s ability to meet its financial
    targets.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s business depends in large part on the success of
    its business partners and suppliers, and the Company’s
    brand and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third
    parties that are outside of the Company’s
    control.





 


    The Company’s business strategy, including its plans for
    new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives,
    relies significantly on a variety of licensee and partnership
    relationships, particularly in its International markets.
    Licensees are often authorized to use the Starbucks logo and
    provide Starbucks-branded beverages, food and other products
    directly to customers. The Company provides training and support
    to, and monitors the operations of, these business partners, but
    the product quality and service they deliver to Starbucks
    customers may be diminished by any number of factors beyond the
    Company’s control. Management believes customers expect the
    same quality of products and service from the Company’s
    licensees as they do from Starbucks and the Company strives to
    ensure customers have the same experience whether they visit a
    Company-operated or licensed store. Any shortcoming of a
    Starbucks business partner, particularly an issue affecting the
    quality of the service experience or the safety of beverages or
    food, may be attributed by customers to Starbucks, thus damaging
    the Company’s reputation and brand value and potentially
    affecting the results of operations.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Effectively
    managing the Company’s growth is challenging.





 


    Effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as
    Starbucks expands into new markets internationally, where it
    must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy
    for local management with



    
    12



Table of Contents




    consistency with the Company’s goals, philosophy and
    standards. Significant growth can make it increasingly difficult
    to ensure a consistent supply of high quality raw materials, to
    locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees to meet the
    Company’s financial targets, to maintain an effective
    system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise
    and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high
    quality product and customer experience.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Adverse
    public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming
    the Company’s products, as well as reports of incidents
    involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not
    accurate, could harm its business.





 


    Some Starbucks products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar
    and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the
    subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion
    that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar
    and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse
    health effects. There has also been greater public awareness
    that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption
    of high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of
    obesity. Particularly in the United States, there is increasing
    consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in
    part to increasing publicity and attention from health
    organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on
    alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food
    products. While Starbucks has a variety of healthy choice
    beverage and food items, including items that are low in
    caffeine and calories, an unfavorable report on the health
    effects of caffeine or other compounds present in the
    Company’s products, or negative publicity or litigation
    arising from other health risks such as obesity, could
    significantly reduce the demand for the Company’s beverages
    and food products.


 


    Similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean
    water supply, food-borne illnesses and food tampering have in
    the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the
    food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors
    and could in the future affect the Company as well. Any report
    linking Starbucks to the use of unclean water,
    food-borne
    illnesses or food tampering could damage its brand value,
    immediately and severely hurt sales of its beverages and food
    products, and possibly lead to product liability claims. Clean
    water is critical to the preparation of specialty coffee
    beverages. The Company’s ability to ensure a clean water
    supply to its stores is limited, particularly in some
    International locations. If customers become ill from food-borne
    illnesses, the Company could also be forced to temporarily close
    some stores. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or
    food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants
    or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative
    publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect
    Starbucks sales on a regional or global basis. A decrease in
    customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or
    negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any
    of the Company’s stores, could materially harm the
    Company’s business and results of operations.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    A
    regional or global health pandemic could severely affect
    Starbucks business.





 


    A health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely
    by infection and affects many individuals in an area or
    population at the same time. If a regional or global health
    pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and
    severity, the Company’s business could be severely
    affected. Starbucks has positioned itself as a third place
    between home and work where people can gather together for human
    connection. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the
    event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national
    governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or
    delay the spread of disease. A regional or global health
    pandemic might also adversely impact the Company’s business
    by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials
    and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing
    shortages in its stores. The impact of a health pandemic on
    Starbucks might be disproportionately greater than on other
    companies that depend less on the gathering of people together
    for the sale, use or license of their products and services.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Increased
    leverage and/or increases in interest rates may harm the
    Company’s financial condition and results of
    operations.





 


    As of September 28, 2008, Starbucks had approximately
    $5.1 billion in minimum future rental payments under
    non-cancelable operating leases and $3.2 billion of total
    liabilities on a consolidated basis. Included in total
    liabilities are aggregate principal indebtedness of
    $713 million under outstanding commercial paper and
    revolving credit facility borrowings, and $550 million
    under ten-year notes maturing in August 2017. Future increases
    in the Company’s



    
    13



Table of Contents




    level of financial obligations, if any, would have several
    important effects on the Company’s future operations, such
    as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    additional cash requirements to support the payment of rents and
    interest on outstanding indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    possible increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general
    economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive
    pressure;




 



     
        • 

    
    possible limitations on the Company’s ability to obtain
    additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
    general corporate and other purposes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    possible limitations on the Company’s flexibility in
    planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and its
    industry.





 


    The Company’s ability to satisfy its lease obligations and
    make payments of principal and interest on its indebtedness
    depends on its future performance, which will be subject to
    general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial,
    business and other factors affecting its consolidated
    operations, many of which are beyond the Company’s control.
    If Starbucks is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from
    operations in the future to satisfy its financial obligations,
    it may be required, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    to sell selected assets; or




 



     
        • 

    
    to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures.





 


    Such measures might not be sufficient to enable Starbucks to
    satisfy its financial obligations. In addition, any such
    financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available
    on economically favorable terms.


 


    An increase in leverage could lead to deterioration in Starbucks
    credit ratings. A reduction in its credit ratings, regardless of
    the cause, could limit the Company’s availability of
    additional financing and increase its cost of obtaining
    financing.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    relies heavily on information technology in its operations, and
    any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security
    failure of that technology could harm the Company’s ability
    to effectively operate its business.





 


    Starbucks relies heavily on information technology systems
    across its operations, including for management of its supply
    chain, point-of-sale processing in its stores, and various other
    processes and transactions. The Company’s ability to
    effectively manage its business and coordinate the production,
    distribution and sale of its products depends significantly on
    the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of
    these systems to operate effectively, problems with
    transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in
    security of these systems could cause delays in product sales
    and reduced efficiency of the Company’s operations, and
    significant capital investments could be required to remediate
    the problem.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Failure
    of the Company to comply with applicable laws and regulations
    could harm its business and financial results.





 


    Starbucks policies and procedures are designed to comply with
    all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by
    the SEC, NASDAQ, and foreign countries, as well as applicable
    labor laws. Additional legal and regulatory requirements, such
    as those arising under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, together
    with the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with
    domestic laws, increase the complexity of the regulatory
    environment in which the Company operates and the related cost
    of compliance. Failure to comply with the various laws and
    regulations may result in damage to Starbucks reputation, civil
    and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of
    regulatory compliance and restatements of the Company’s
    financial statements.


 


    If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the
    cautionary factors described above actually occurs, Starbucks
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected. The factors listed



    
    14



Table of Contents




    above are not exhaustive. Other sections of this
    10-K include
    additional factors that could materially and adversely impact
    Starbucks business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, Starbucks operates in a very competitive
    and rapidly changing environment. New factors emerge from time
    to time and it is not possible for management to predict the
    impact of all these factors on Starbucks business, financial
    condition or results of operation or the extent to which any
    factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to
    differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
    statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors
    should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of
    actual results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements
    contained in this
    10-K and any
    other public statement made by Starbucks or its management may
    turn out to be incorrect. Starbucks expressly disclaims any
    obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements,
    whether as a result of new information, future events or
    otherwise.


 



    Item 1B