Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
    Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that
    they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They
    often include words such as “believes,”
    “expects,” “anticipates,”
    “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,”
    “seeks” or words of similar meaning, or future or
    conditional verbs, such as “will,” “should,”
    “could” or “may.” A forward-looking
    statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future
    events or circumstances, and those future events or
    circumstances may not occur. Investors should not place undue
    reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as
    of the date of this Report. Starbucks is under no obligation



    
    7



Table of Contents




    to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a
    result of new information, future events or otherwise. These
    forward-looking statements are all based on currently available
    operating, financial and competitive information and are subject
    to various risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual
    future results and trends may differ materially depending on a
    variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and
    uncertainties discussed below. The risks below are not the only
    ones the Company faces. Additional risks and risks that
    management currently considers immaterial may also have an
    adverse effect on the Company.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Failing
    to meet market expectations for Starbucks financial performance
    could cause the market price of Starbucks stock to drop rapidly
    and sharply.





 


    Management believes the price of Starbucks stock reflects high
    market expectations for the Company’s future operating
    results. Any failure to meet those expectations, particularly
    for the growth rates for (i) comparable store sales
    attributable to number of transactions, average value per
    transaction, or both, (ii) net revenues,
    (iii) earnings per share or (iv) net new store
    openings could cause the market price of Starbucks stock to drop
    rapidly and sharply.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    is subject to a number of significant risks that might cause the
    Company’s actual results to vary materially from its
    forecasts, targets, or projections, including:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which
    negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues,
    operating income and earnings per share, due to:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased
    competition generally;




 



     
        • 

    
    lack of customer acceptance of price increases necessary to
    cover costs or new products;




 



     
        • 

    
    unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which
    Starbucks operates, including, but not limited to, downturns in
    the housing market, higher interest rates, higher unemployment
    rates, lower disposable income due to higher energy or other
    consumer costs, lower consumer confidence, and other events or
    factors that adversely affect consumer spending;




 



     
        • 

    
    declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee
    products; or




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse impacts due to negative publicity regarding the
    Company’s business practices or the health effects of
    consuming its products;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond the
    Company’s control, such as:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    commodity costs for commodities that cannot be effectively
    hedged, such as fluid milk, and to a lesser extent, high quality
    arabica coffee;




 



     
        • 

    
    labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market
    wage levels and worker’s compensation insurance costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    construction costs associated with new store openings;




 



     
        • 

    
    information technology costs and other logistical resources
    necessary to maintain and support the global growth of the
    Company’s business; and




 



     
        • 

    
    litigation against Starbucks, particularly class action
    litigation;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    delays in store openings for reasons beyond the Company’s
    control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available
    for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep the
    Company from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn,
    negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings
    per share;




 



     
        • 

    
    any material interruption in the Company’s supply chain
    beyond its control, such as (i) material interruption of
    roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of the
    Company’s roasting plants or the failures of third-party
    suppliers, or (ii) interruptions in service by common
    carriers that ship goods within the Company’s distribution
    channels; and






    
    8



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the impact on Starbucks business of factors such as labor
    discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting
    Starbucks), political instability in certain markets and natural
    disasters.





 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    is highly dependent on the financial performance of its United
    States operating segment.





 


    The Company’s financial performance is highly dependent on
    its United States operating segment, which comprised 78% of
    consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2007. Any substantial
    or sustained decline in these operations, if not offset by
    increased financial performance elsewhere, could materially
    adversely affect the Company’s business and financial
    results.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    faces intense competition in the specialty coffee
    market.





 


    A description of the general competitive conditions in which
    Starbucks operates appears on page 6 under
    “Competition.” In the United States, the continued
    focus by one or more large competitors in the quick-service
    restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee
    beverages at a low cost could attract Starbucks customers and
    adversely affect the Company’s sales and results of
    operations. Similarly, continued competition from
    well-established competitors in international markets could
    hinder growth and adversely affect the Company’s sales and
    results of operations in those markets. Increased competition
    from large competitors with significant resources in the United
    States ready-to-drink coffee beverage market could adversely
    affect the profitability of the CPG segment and the
    Company’s results of operations.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s success depends substantially on the value of the
    Starbucks brand.





 


    Starbucks believes it has built an excellent reputation globally
    for the quality of its products, for delivery of a consistently
    positive consumer experience and for its corporate social
    responsibility programs. The Starbucks brand has been highly
    rated in several global brand value studies. Management believes
    it must preserve and grow the value of the Starbucks brand to be
    successful in the future, particularly outside of North America,
    where the Starbucks brand is less well-known. Brand value is
    based in part on consumer perceptions as to a variety of
    subjective qualities. Even isolated business incidents that
    erode consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive
    considerable publicity or result in litigation, can
    significantly reduce brand value. Consumer demand for the
    Company’s products and its brand equity could diminish
    significantly if Starbucks fails to preserve the quality of its
    products, is perceived to act in an unethical or socially
    irresponsible manner or fails to deliver a consistently positive
    consumer experience in each of its markets.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    is increasingly dependent on the success of its International
    operating segment in order to achieve its growth
    targets.





 


    The Company’s future growth will increasingly depend on the
    growth and sustained profitability of its International
    operating segment. Some or all of the Company’s
    International market business units (“MBUs”), which
    Starbucks generally defines by the countries or regions in which
    they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in
    achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving
    consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. Some factors that
    will be critical to the success of International MBUs are
    different than those affecting the Company’s
    U.S. stores and licensees. Tastes naturally vary by region,
    and consumers in new international markets into which Starbucks
    and its licensees expand may not embrace Starbucks products to
    the same extent as consumers in the Company’s existing
    markets. Occupancy costs and store operating expenses are also
    sometimes higher internationally than in the United States due
    to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance
    with country-specific regulatory requirements. Because many of
    the Company’s International operations are in an early
    phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of
    related revenues are often higher compared to
    U.S. operations. The Company’s International
    operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of
    conducting business abroad, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes or uncertainties in economic, social and political
    conditions in the Company’s markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    interpretation and application of laws and regulations;






    
    9



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    restrictive actions of foreign or United States governmental
    authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including
    protective measures such as export and customs duties and
    tariffs and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership;




 



     
        • 

    
    import or other business licensing requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency
    exchange restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    lower levels of consumer spending on a per capita basis
    than in the United States;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign
    operations, including ensuring the consistency of product
    quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural
    differences; and




 



     
        • 

    
    local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate
    with, retain or terminate employees.





 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    China market is important to the Company’s long-term growth
    prospects - doing business there and in other developing
    countries can be challenging.





 


    Starbucks expects the People’s Republic of China to be its
    largest market outside of the United States. The Company’s
    growing investments in its China operations will increase the
    Company’s exposure in this market. Any significant or
    prolonged deterioration in
    U.S.-China
    relations might adversely affect the Company’s China
    business.


 


    Many of the risks and uncertainties of doing business in China
    are solely within the control of the Chinese government.
    China’s government regulates the business conducted by
    Starbucks by restricting the scope of the Company’s foreign
    investments within China and the food and beverage, retail,
    wholesale and distribution business conducted within China.
    Although management believes it has structured the
    Company’s China operations to comply with local laws, there
    are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and
    application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of
    intellectual property and contract rights in China. If
    China’s governmental authorities were ultimately to
    conclude that Starbucks has not complied with one or more
    existing or future laws or regulations, or if their
    interpretations of those laws or regulations were to change over
    time, the Company’s affiliates could be subject to fines
    and other financial penalties, prohibited from opening new
    stores or forced to cease operations entirely. Moreover, any
    inability of the Company to enforce its intellectual property
    and contract rights in China’s courts could adversely
    affect the Company’s business.


 


    Additionally, Starbucks plans to continue entering selected
    markets in other developing countries, and has recently entered
    Russia as an important part of the projected growth of the
    International operating segment. Some of those markets pose
    legal and business challenges similar to the China market, such
    as substantial uncertainty regarding the interpretation and
    application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of
    intellectual property and contract rights.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s earnings and business growth strategy depends in
    large part on the success of its business partners and
    suppliers, and the Company’s reputation may be harmed by
    actions taken by third parties that are outside of the
    Company’s control.





 


    The Company’s growth strategy, including its plans for new
    stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives,
    relies significantly on a variety of licensee and partnership
    relationships, particularly in its International markets.
    Licensees are often authorized to use the Starbucks logo and
    provide Starbucks-branded beverages, food and other products
    directly to customers. The Company provides training and support
    to, and monitors the operations of, these business partners, but
    the product quality and service they deliver to Starbucks
    customers may be diminished by any number of factors beyond the
    Company’s control. Management believes customers expect the
    same quality of products and service from the Company’s
    licensees as they do from Starbucks and the Company strives to
    ensure customers have the same experience whether they visit a
    Company-operated or licensed store. Any shortcoming of a
    Starbucks business partner, particularly an issue affecting the
    quality of the service experience or the safety of beverages or
    food, may be attributed by customers to Starbucks, thus damaging
    the Company’s reputation and brand value and potentially
    affecting the results of operations.



    
    10



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    • 

    
    Effectively
    managing the Company’s rapid growth is
    challenging.





 


    The Company’s long-term goal is to open approximately
    20,000 Starbucks stores in the United States and at least 20,000
    stores in International markets. Starbucks expects to double the
    size of its business over the next four to five years and
    achieve higher annual growth in net earnings than revenue.
    Effectively managing growth on this scale is challenging,
    particularly as Starbucks expands into new markets
    internationally, where it must balance the need for flexibility
    and a degree of autonomy for local management with consistency
    with the Company’s goals, philosophy and standards. Growth
    on this scale makes it increasingly difficult to ensure a
    consistent supply of high quality raw materials, to locate and
    hire sufficient numbers of key employees to meet the
    Company’s growth targets, to maintain an effective system
    of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to
    train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality
    product and customer experience.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining
    qualified personnel could jeopardize the Company’s ability
    to meet its growth targets.





 


    The Company’s future growth depends substantially on the
    contributions and abilities of key executives and other
    employees. Starbucks future growth also depends substantially on
    its ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work
    in and manage Starbucks stores. Starbucks must continue to
    recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees
    sufficient to maintain its current business and support its
    projected growth. A loss of key employees or a significant
    shortage of high quality store employees could jeopardize the
    Company’s ability to meet its growth targets.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Adverse
    public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming
    the Company’s products, as well as reports of incidents
    involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not
    accurate, could harm its business.





 


    Some Starbucks products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar
    and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the
    subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion
    that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar
    and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse
    health effects. There has also been greater public awareness
    that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption
    of high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of
    obesity. Particularly in the United States, there is increasing
    consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in
    part to increasing publicity and attention from health
    organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on
    alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food
    products. While Starbucks has a variety of beverage and food
    items that are low in caffeine and calories, an unfavorable
    report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds
    present in the Company’s products, or negative publicity or
    litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity,
    could significantly reduce the demand for the Company’s
    beverages and food products.


 


    Similarly, reports, whether true or not, of unclean water
    supply, food-borne illnesses and food tampering have in the past
    severely injured the reputations of companies in the food
    processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and
    could in the future affect the Company as well. Any report
    linking Starbucks to the use of unclean water, food-borne
    illnesses or food tampering could damage its brand value,
    immediately and severely hurt sales of its beverages and food
    products, and possibly lead to product liability claims. Clean
    water is critical to the preparation of specialty coffee
    beverages. The Company’s ability to ensure a clean water
    supply to its stores is limited, particularly in some
    International locations. If customers become ill from food-borne
    illnesses, the Company could also be forced to temporarily close
    some stores. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or
    food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants
    or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative
    publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect
    Starbucks sales on a regional or global basis. A decrease in
    customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or
    negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any
    of the Company’s stores, could materially harm the
    Company’s business and results of operations.



    
    11



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    • 

    
    Significant
    increases in the market price or decreases in availability of
    high quality arabica coffee or fluid milk could harm the
    Company’s business and financial results.





 


    A discussion of the sources and availability of coffee of the
    quality sought by Starbucks and fluid milk appears on
    page 5 under “Product Supply.” Any significant
    increase in the market price or any significant decrease in the
    availability of high-quality arabica coffee or fluid milk
    could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial
    results.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    A
    regional or global health pandemic could severely affect
    Starbucks business.





 


    A health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely
    by infection and affects many individuals in an area or
    population at the same time. If a regional or global health
    pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and
    severity, the Company’s business could be severely
    affected. Starbucks has positioned itself as a third place
    between home and work where people can gather together for human
    connection. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the
    event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national
    governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or
    delay the spread of disease. A regional or global health
    pandemic might also adversely impact the Company’s business
    by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials
    and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing
    shortages in its stores. The impact of a health pandemic on
    Starbucks might be disproportionately greater than on other
    companies that depend less on the gathering of people together
    for the sale, use or license of their products and services.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    relies heavily on information technology in its operations, and
    any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security
    failure of that technology could harm the Company’s ability
    to effectively operate its business.





 


    Starbucks relies heavily on information technology systems
    across its operations, including for management of its supply
    chain, point-of-sale processing in its stores, and various other
    processes and transactions. The Company’s ability to
    effectively manage its business and coordinate the production,
    distribution and sale of its products depends significantly on
    the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of
    these systems to operate effectively, problems with
    transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in
    security of these systems could cause delays in product sales
    and reduced efficiency of the Company’s operations, and
    significant capital investments could be required to remediate
    the problem.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Failure
    of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
    could harm its business and financial results.





 


    Starbucks management is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting.
    Internal control over financial reporting is a process to
    provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
    financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. Internal control over financial reporting includes:
    (i) maintaining reasonably detailed records that accurately
    and fairly reflect the Company’s transactions; and
    (ii) providing reasonable assurance that the Company
    (a) records transactions as necessary to prepare the
    financial statements, (b) makes receipts and expenditures
    in accordance with management authorizations, and (c) would
    timely prevent or detect any unauthorized acquisition, use or
    disposition of Company assets that could have a material effect
    on the financial statements. Because of its inherent
    limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not
    intended to provide absolute assurance that the Company would
    prevent or detect a misstatement of the Company’s financial
    statements or fraud. The Company’s rapid growth and entry
    into new, globally dispersed markets will place significant
    additional pressure on the Company’s system of internal
    control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain an
    effective system of internal control over financial reporting
    could limit the Company’s ability to report its financial
    results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A
    significant financial reporting failure could cause an immediate
    loss of investor confidence in Starbucks and a sharp decline in
    the market price of its common stock.



    
    12



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    • 

    
    Increased
    leverage may harm the Company’s financial condition and
    results of operations.





 


    As of September 30, 2007, Starbucks had approximately
    $5.0 billion in minimum future rental payments under
    non-cancelable operating leases and $3.1 billion of total
    liabilities on a consolidated basis. Included in total
    liabilities are aggregate principal indebtedness of
    $710 million under outstanding commercial paper and
    $550 million under ten-year notes issued in an August 2007
    underwritten registered public offering. The Company will incur
    additional operating lease obligations, largely driven by new
    store openings, and may incur additional indebtedness, subject
    to the limitations contained in its financing agreements. The
    recent increase in the Company’s level of financial
    obligations has had, and any future increase (which may or may
    not occur) will have, several important effects on the
    Company’s future operations, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    additional cash requirements to support the payment of rents and
    interest on outstanding indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    possible increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general
    economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive
    pressure;




 



     
        • 

    
    possible limitations on the Company’s ability to obtain
    additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
    general corporate and other purposes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    possible limitations on the Company’s flexibility in
    planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and its
    industry.





 


    The Company’s ability to satisfy its lease obligations and
    make payments of principal and interest on its indebtedness
    depends on its future performance, which will be subject to
    general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial,
    business and other factors affecting its consolidated
    operations, many of which are beyond the Company’s control.
    If Starbucks is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from
    operations in the future to satisfy its financial obligations,
    it may be required, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    to sell selected assets; or




 



     
        • 

    
    to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures.





 


    Such measures might not be sufficient to enable Starbucks to
    satisfy its financial obligations. In addition, any such
    financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available
    on economically favorable terms.


 


    The Company’s existing strong cash flow and capital
    structure mitigate the current risk associated with leverage.
    Management expects future cash flows to be sufficient to meet
    operating expenses, debt service costs, and capital expenditures
    required to support projected new store openings and investments
    in existing and new markets. In addition, management does not
    expect to increase leverage to levels that would inhibit the
    Company’s access to capital markets in the event of
    short-falls in anticipated operating cash flow.






 




    
    



    
    Item 1B