Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Starbucks is including this Cautionary Statement to make
    applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the
    “Act”) for forward-looking statements. This
    10-K
    includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
    Act. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact
    that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
    They often include words such as “believes,”
    “expects,” “anticipates,”
    “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,”
    “seeks” or words of similar meaning, or future or
    conditional verbs, such as “will,” “should,”
    “could,” “may,” “aims,”
    “intends,” or “projects.” A forward-looking
    statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future
    events or circumstances, and those future events or
    circumstances may not occur. Investors should not place undue
    reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as
    of the date of this Report. These forward-looking statements are
    all based on currently available operating, financial and
    competitive information and are subject to various risks and
    uncertainties. The Company’s actual future results and
    trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors,
    including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties
    discussed below.


 


    If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the
    cautionary factors described below actually occurs, Starbucks
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected. The factors listed below are
    not exhaustive. Other sections of this
    10-K include
    additional factors that could materially and adversely impact
    Starbucks business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, Starbucks operates in a very competitive
    and rapidly changing environment. New factors emerge from time
    to time and it is not possible for management to predict the
    impact of all these factors on Starbucks business, financial
    condition or results of operation or the extent to which any
    factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to
    differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
    statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors
    should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of
    actual results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements
    contained in this
    10-K and any
    other public statement made by Starbucks or its management may
    turn out to be incorrect. Starbucks expressly disclaims any
    obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements,
    whether as a result of new information, future events or
    otherwise.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to,
    and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of
    which are largely outside the Company’s
    control.





 


    The Company’s operating results have been in the past and
    will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of
    which are largely outside the Company’s control. Any one or
    more of the factors set forth below could adversely impact
    Starbucks business, financial condition
    and/or
    results of operations:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which
    negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues,
    operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due
    to:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased
    competition generally;




 



     
        • 

    
    customers trading down to lower priced products within
    Starbucks,
    and/or
    shifting to competitors with lower priced products;




 



     
        • 

    
    lack of customer acceptance of new products or price increases
    necessary to cover costs of new products
    and/or
    higher input costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which
    Starbucks operates that adversely affect consumer spending;




 



     
        • 

    
    declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee
    products; or







    
    8



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    adverse impacts resulting from negative publicity regarding the
    Company’s business practices or the health effects of
    consuming its products;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond the
    Company’s control, such as:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    commodity costs for commodities that can only be partially
    hedged, such as fluid milk, and to a lesser extent, high quality
    arabica coffee (See also the discussion under
    “Product Supply” in Item 1);




 



     
        • 

    
    labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market
    wage levels and workers’ compensation insurance costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    litigation against Starbucks, particularly class action
    litigation;




 



     
        • 

    
    construction costs associated with new store openings; or




 



     
        • 

    
    information technology costs and other logistical resources
    necessary to maintain and support the global growth of the
    Company’s business;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    delays in store openings for reasons beyond the Company’s
    control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available
    for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep the
    Company from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn,
    negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings
    per share;




 



     
        • 

    
    any material interruption in the Company’s supply chain
    beyond its control, such as material interruption of roasted
    coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of the
    Company’s roasting plants or the failures of third-party
    suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that
    ship goods within the Company’s distribution channels, or
    trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas,
    embargoes or customs restrictions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the impact on Starbucks business of factors such as labor
    discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting
    Starbucks), political instability in certain markets and natural
    disasters.





 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company may not be successful in implementing important
    strategic initiatives, which may have a material adverse impact
    on its business and financial results.





 


    There is no assurance that the Company will be able to implement
    important strategic initiatives in accordance with its
    expectations, which may result in a material adverse impact on
    the Company’s business and financial results. These
    strategic initiatives are designed to drive long-term
    shareholder value and improve Starbucks results of operations,
    and include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    ongoing initiatives to improve the current state of the business
    by refocusing on the customer experience in the stores, new
    products and store design elements, and new training and tools
    for the Company’s store partners to help them give
    customers a superior experience;




 



     
        • 

    
    balancing disciplined global store growth while meeting target
    store-level unit economics in a given market;




 



     
        • 

    
    executing a multi-channel advertising and marketing campaign to
    effectively communicate the Company’s message directly to
    Starbucks consumers and partners; and




 



     
        • 

    
    focusing on relevant innovation and profitable growth platforms,
    such as the recent introduction of Starbucks soluble coffee, VIA.





 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Economic
    conditions in the US and certain International markets could
    adversely affect the Company’s business and financial
    results.





 


    As a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary
    spending, the Company’s results of operations are sensitive
    to changes in macro-economic conditions. Starbucks customers may
    have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job
    losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and
    falling home prices. Any resulting decreases in customer traffic
    or average value per transaction will negatively impact the
    Company’s





    
    9



Table of Contents





    financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales
    de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins. There
    is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for
    a long period of time, consumers may make long-lasting changes
    to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less
    frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Failure
    to meet market expectations for Starbucks financial performance
    will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of
    Starbucks stock.





 


    The Company’s failure to meet market expectations going
    forward, particularly with respect to operating margins,
    earnings per share, comparable store sales, and net revenues,
    will likely result in a decline
    and/or
    increased volatility in the market price of Starbucks stock.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    is highly dependent on the financial performance of its US
    operating segment.





 


    The Company’s financial performance is highly dependent on
    its US operating segment, which comprised approximately
    three-quarters of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal
    2009. The Company continued to experience negative traffic in
    its US stores in fiscal 2009, which adversely affected the
    operating results of the US segment and the Company as a whole.
    Although the US segment’s operating results improved in
    fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 due to the Company’s
    restructuring efforts, if improvements in its financial
    performance do not continue, the Company’s business and
    financial results will continue to be adversely affected.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    is increasingly dependent on the success of its International
    operating segment in order to achieve its growth
    targets.





 


    The Company’s future growth increasingly depends on the
    growth and sustained profitability of its International
    operating segment. Some or all of the Company’s
    International market business units (“MBUs”), which
    Starbucks generally defines by the countries or regions in which
    they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in
    achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving
    consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. The performance of
    the International operating segment may be adversely affected by
    economic downturns in one or more of the Company’s large
    MBUs. Additionally, some factors that will be critical to the
    success of International MBUs are different than those affecting
    the Company’s US stores and licensees. Tastes naturally
    vary by region, and consumers in new international markets into
    which Starbucks and its licensees expand may not embrace
    Starbucks products to the same extent as consumers in the
    Company’s existing markets. Occupancy costs and store
    operating expenses are also sometimes higher internationally
    than in the US due to higher rents for prime store locations or
    costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory
    requirements. Because many of the Company’s International
    operations are in an early phase of development, operating
    expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher
    compared to US operations. The Company’s International
    operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of
    conducting business abroad, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social
    and political conditions in the Company’s markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    interpretation and application of laws and regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictive actions of foreign or US governmental authorities
    affecting trade and foreign investment, including protective
    measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs and
    restrictions on the level of foreign ownership;




 



     
        • 

    
    import or other business licensing requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency
    exchange restrictions;







    
    10



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the
    population achieving targeted levels of disposable income may
    not be as fast as the Company forecasts;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign
    operations, including ensuring the consistency of product
    quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural
    differences; and




 



     
        • 

    
    local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate
    with, retain or terminate employees.





 


    Moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in
    developing countries, which are important to the Company’s
    long-term growth prospects.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    International operating segment is highly dependent on the
    financial performance of its Canada, Japan and UK
    market.





 


    Starbucks Canada, Japan and UK markets account for a significant
    portion of the net revenues and profit contribution of the
    Company’s International operating segment. Any significant
    decline in the financial performance of one of these key markets
    may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations
    of the entire International operating segment, if not partially
    or fully offset by positive financial performance from the other
    two major markets.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    faces intense competition in the specialty coffee market, which
    could lead to reduced profitability.





 


    A description of the general competitive conditions in which
    Starbucks operates appears under “Competition” in
    Item 1. In the US, the continued focus by one or more large
    competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling
    high-quality specialty coffee beverages at a low cost has
    attracted Starbucks customers and could, if the numbers become
    large enough, adversely affect the Company’s sales and
    results of operations. Similarly, continued competition from
    well-established competitors in international markets could
    hinder growth and adversely affect the Company’s sales and
    results of operations in those markets. The Company faces
    increased competition from larger well-known competitors which
    have greater resources. Increasing competition from the US
    packaged coffee and tea and
    ready-to-drink
    coffee beverage markets could adversely affect the profitability
    of the CPG segment and the Company’s results of operations.
    Given its premium brand, Starbucks may be impacted more severely
    than its competitors by customers trading down to lower priced
    coffee beverages and related products.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    A
    regional or global health pandemic could severely affect
    Starbucks business.





 


    A health pandemic is a disease outbreak that spreads rapidly and
    widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or
    population at the same time. If a regional or global health
    pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and
    severity, the Company’s business could be severely
    affected. Starbucks has positioned itself as a third place
    between home and work where people can gather together for human
    connection. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the
    event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national
    governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or
    delay the spread of disease. A regional or global health
    pandemic might also adversely impact the Company’s business
    by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials
    and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing
    shortages in its stores. The impact of a health pandemic on
    Starbucks might be disproportionately greater than on other
    companies that depend less on the gathering of people together
    for the sale, use or license of their products and services.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s success depends substantially on the value of the
    Starbucks brand.





 


    Starbucks believes it has built an excellent reputation globally
    for the quality of its products, for delivery of a consistently
    positive consumer experience and for its corporate social
    responsibility programs. The Starbucks brand has been highly
    rated in several global brand value studies. To be successful in
    the future, particularly outside of US, where the Starbucks
    brand is less well-known, management believes it must preserve,
    grow and leverage the value of the Starbucks brand across its
    sales channels. Brand value is based in part on consumer
    perceptions as to a variety of subjective qualities. Even
    isolated business incidents that erode consumer trust,
    particularly if the incidents





    
    11



Table of Contents





    receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can
    significantly reduce brand value. Consumer demand for the
    Company’s products and its brand equity could diminish
    significantly if Starbucks fails to preserve the quality of its
    products, is perceived to act in an unethical or socially
    irresponsible manner or fails to deliver a consistently positive
    consumer experience in each of its markets.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    Company’s business depends in large part on the success of
    its business partners and suppliers, and the Company’s
    brand and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third
    parties that are outside of the Company’s
    control.





 


    The Company’s business strategy, including its plans for
    new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives,
    relies significantly on a variety of licensee and partnership
    relationships, particularly in its International markets.
    Licensees are often authorized to use the Starbucks logo and
    provide Starbucks-branded beverages, food and other products
    directly to customers. The Company provides training and support
    to, and monitors the operations of, these business partners, but
    the product quality and service they deliver to Starbucks
    customers may be diminished by any number of factors beyond the
    Company’s control, including financial pressures.
    Management believes customers expect the same quality of
    products and service from the Company’s licensees as they
    do from Starbucks and the Company strives to ensure customers
    have the same experience whether they visit a Company-operated
    or licensed store. Any shortcoming of a Starbucks business
    partner, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the
    service experience or the safety of beverages or food, may be
    attributed by customers to Starbucks, thus damaging the
    Company’s reputation and brand value and potentially
    affecting the results of operations.


 


    The Company’s products and in particular, its coffee and
    tea products, are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and
    international vendors. The Company relies on international
    vendors to provide high quality product that comply with
    applicable laws. The Company’s ability to find qualified
    vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely
    and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with
    respect to goods sourced from outside the US. These issues could
    negatively impact the Company’s business and profitability.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The
    loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining
    qualified personnel could jeopardize the Company’s ability
    to meet its financial targets.





 


    The Company’s success depends substantially on the
    contributions and abilities of key executives and other
    employees, and on its ability to recruit and retain high quality
    employees to work in and manage Starbucks stores. Starbucks must
    continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other
    employees sufficient to maintain its current business and
    support its projected growth. A loss of key employees or a
    significant shortage of high quality store employees could
    jeopardize the Company’s ability to meet its financial
    targets.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Effectively
    managing the Company’s growth is challenging.





 


    Effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as
    Starbucks expands into new markets internationally, where it
    must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy
    for local management against the need for consistency with the
    Company’s goals, philosophy and standards. Growth can make
    it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high
    quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of
    key employees to meet the Company’s financial targets, to
    maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally
    dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver
    a consistently high quality product and customer experience.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Adverse
    public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming
    the Company’s products, as well as reports of incidents
    involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not
    accurate, could harm its business.





 


    Some Starbucks products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar
    and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the
    subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion
    that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar
    and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse
    health effects. There has also been greater public awareness
    that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption
    of high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of
    obesity. Particularly in the US, there is increasing consumer
    awareness of health





    
    12



Table of Contents





    risks, including obesity, due in part to increasing publicity
    and attention from health organizations, as well as increased
    consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of
    consumption of various food products. While Starbucks has a
    variety of healthier choice beverage and food items, including
    items that are low in caffeine and calories, an unfavorable
    report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds
    present in the Company’s products, or negative publicity or
    litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity,
    could significantly reduce the demand for the Company’s
    beverages and food products.


 


    Similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean
    water supply, food-borne illnesses and food tampering have in
    the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the
    food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors
    and could in the future affect the Company as well. Any report
    linking Starbucks to the use of unclean water, food-borne
    illnesses or food tampering could damage its brand value,
    immediately and severely hurt sales of its beverages and food
    products, and possibly lead to product liability claims. Clean
    water is critical to the preparation of specialty coffee
    beverages. The Company’s ability to ensure a clean water
    supply to its stores is limited, particularly in some
    International locations. If customers become ill from food-borne
    illnesses, the Company could also be forced to temporarily close
    some stores. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or
    food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants
    or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative
    publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect
    Starbucks sales on a regional or global basis. A decrease in
    customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or
    negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any
    of the Company’s stores, could materially harm the
    Company’s business and results of operations.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Deterioration
    in operating performance could lead to increased leverage, which
    may harm the Company’s financial condition and results of
    operations.





 


    Any reduction in cash flow relative to the level of the
    Company’s financial obligations would result in an increase
    in leverage. Any increase in leverage could lead to
    deterioration in Starbucks credit ratings, which could limit the
    availability of additional financing and increase its cost of
    obtaining financing. In addition, an increase in leverage could
    raise the likelihood of a financial covenant breach which in
    turn could limit the Company’s access to existing funding
    under its credit facility.


 


    The Company’s ability to satisfy its operating lease
    obligations and make payments of principal and interest on its
    indebtedness depends on its future performance. Should the
    Company experience deterioration in operating performance, it
    will have less cash flow available to meet these obligations. In
    addition, if such deterioration were to lead to the closure of
    underperforming stores, the Company would need to fund the costs
    of terminating store leases. If Starbucks is unable to generate
    sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to satisfy
    these financial obligations, it may be required to, among other
    things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    sell selected assets; or




 



     
        • 

    
    reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures.





 


    Such measures might not be sufficient to enable Starbucks to
    satisfy its financial obligations. In addition, any such
    financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available
    on economically favorable terms.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    relies heavily on information technology in its operations, and
    any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security
    failure of that technology could harm the Company’s ability
    to effectively operate its business.





 


    Starbucks relies heavily on information technology systems
    across its operations, including for management of its supply
    chain,
    point-of-sale
    processing in its stores, and various other processes and
    transactions. The Company’s ability to effectively manage
    its business and coordinate the production, distribution and
    sale of its products depends significantly on the reliability
    and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to
    operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or
    replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems
    could





    
    13



Table of Contents





    cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of the
    Company’s operations, and significant capital investments
    could be required to remediate the problem.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Failure
    of the Company to comply with applicable laws and regulations
    could harm its business and financial results.





 


    Starbucks policies and procedures are designed to comply with
    all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by
    the SEC, NASDAQ, and foreign countries, as well as applicable
    labor laws. Additional legal and regulatory requirements,
    together with the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict
    with domestic laws, increase the complexity of the regulatory
    environment in which the Company operates and the related cost
    of compliance. Failure to comply with the various laws and
    regulations may result in damage to Starbucks reputation, civil
    and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of
    regulatory compliance and restatements of the Company’s
    financial statements.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B