Item 1A.   Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operation.•Economic conditions in the US and certain international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. As a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions. Our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases and may stop or reduce their purchases of our products or trade down to Starbucks or competitors' lower priced products as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes and reduced access to credit. Decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues without a corresponding decrease in expenses result in sales de-leveraging, which creates downward pressure on margins and also negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. There is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. •Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value, either through our actions or those of our business partners, could have a negative impact on our financial results. We believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our corporate social responsibility programs. Our brand is recognized throughout the world and we have received high ratings in global brand value studies. To be successful in the future, particularly outside of the US, where the Starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. Additionally, our business strategy, including our plans for new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, including licensee and joint venture relationships, particularly in our international markets. Licensees and food service operators are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. We provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures they may face. We believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensees and food services providers as they do from us and we strive to ensure customers receive the same quality of products and service experience whether they visit a company-operated store, licensed store or food service location. We also source our food, beverage and other products from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases such products are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. Business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us or our business partners, that erode consumer trust, such as actual or perceived breaches of privacy, contaminated food, recalls or other potential incidents discussed in this risk factors section, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity, including rapidly through social or digital media, or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. Consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we or our licensees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, are perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible manner, including with respect to the sourcing or content of our products, fail to comply with laws and regulations or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets. Additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, including from unauthorized uses of our brand or other of our intellectual property assets, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results.10Table of Contents•The unauthorized access, theft or destruction of customer or employee personal, financial or other data or of Starbucks proprietary or confidential information that is stored in our information systems could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues.Our information technology systems, such as those we use for our point-of-sale, web and mobile platforms, including online and mobile payment systems and rewards programs, and for administrative functions, as well as the information technology systems of our third party business partners and service providers, can contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. Our information technology systems also contain Starbucks proprietary and other confidential information related to our business. Security breaches of our or a third party’s information technology systems that result in the unauthorized access, theft or destruction of customers' or employees' data or that of the Company stored in such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, could result in a material loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and brand, our ability to retain or attract new customers and the potential disruption to our business and plans. Such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable US and international privacy and other laws, and subject us to private consumer or securities litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability. Our reputation and brand and our ability to attract new customers could also be adversely impacted if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to properly respond to these incidents, which could also result in similar exposure to liability. Significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. These costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred and may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems. Media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our third party business partners or service providers, even if no breach has been attempted or has occurred, can also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially impact our business. Like many other retail companies and because of the prominence of our brand, we have experienced frequent attempts to compromise our information technology systems but none have resulted in a material breach. Additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. We continue to make significant investments in technology, third party services and personnel to develop and implement systems and processes that are designed to anticipate cyber-attacks and prevent breaches of our information technology systems or data loss, but these security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches or data loss.•Incidents involving food-borne illnesses, food tampering, food contamination or mislabeling, whether or not accurate, as well as adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, could harm our business. Instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply or food-safety issues, such as food-borne illnesses, food tampering, food contamination or mislabeling, either during growing, manufacturing, packaging, storing or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors and could affect us as well. Any report linking us to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses or food tampering, contamination, mislabeling or other food-safety issues could damage our brand value and severely hurt sales of our beverages and food products, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or damages. Clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee and tea beverages and our ability to ensure a clean water supply to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. We have also incorporated many products in our food and beverage lineup that require freezing or refrigeration, including produce (such as fruits and vegetables in our salads and juices), dairy products (such as milk and cheeses) and meats. If customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, tampering, contamination, mislabeling or other food-safety issues, we could also be forced to temporarily close some stores and/or supply chain facilities, as well as recall products. In addition, instances of food-safety issues, even those involving solely the restaurants or stores of competitors or of suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), could, by resulting in negative publicity about us or the foodservice industry in general, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of food-safety concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores or recalls, as well as adverse results of claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. Some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. Particularly in the US, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, due in part to increased publicity and attention from health organizations, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. While we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health 11Table of Contentseffects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, whether accurate or not, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products and could materially harm our business and results of operations. •We may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives or effectively managing growth, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. There is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. These strategic initiatives are designed to create growth, improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: •successfully leveraging Starbucks brand portfolio outside the company-operated store base, including our increased focus on international licensed stores;•focusing on relevant product innovation and profitable new growth platforms, including retail tea, and achieving customer acceptance of these new products and platforms while maintaining demand for our current offerings;•continuing the growth of our Channel Development business;•balancing disciplined global store growth and existing store renovation while meeting target store-level unit economics in a given market; •executing a multi-channel advertising and marketing campaign to effectively communicate our message directly to Starbucks consumers and employees; and•strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures.In addition to other factors listed in this risk factors section, factors that may adversely affect the successful implementation of these initiatives, which could adversely impact our business and financial results, include construction cost increases associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets in the US and internationally; lack of customer acceptance of new products due to price increases necessary to cover the costs of new products or higher input costs; the degree to which we enter into, maintain, develop and are able to negotiate appropriate terms and conditions of, and enforce, commercial and other agreements; not successfully consummating favorable strategic transactions or integrating acquired businesses; or the deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing to fund our initiatives. If we are not successful in implementing these strategic initiatives, we may be required to evaluate whether certain assets, including other intangibles and goodwill, have become impaired. In the event we record an impairment charge, it could have a material impact on our financial results.Additionally, effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new channels outside the retail store model, increase our focus on our Channel Development business, and expand into new markets internationally where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. Growth can make it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of key employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high quality product and customer experience.•We face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. The specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, innovation, service, convenience, and price, and we face significant and increasing competition in all these areas in each of our channels and markets. Accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. In the US, the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could lead to decreases in customer traffic to Starbucks® stores and/or average value per transaction adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. Similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors in our international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. Increased competition in the US packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market, could adversely affect the profitability of the Channel Development segment. Additionally, declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products for any reason, including due to consumer preference for other products, could have a negative effect on our business. 12Table of Contents•We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our Americas operating segment. Our financial performance is highly dependent on our Americas operating segment, as it comprised approximately 73% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2014. If the Americas operating segment revenue trends slow or decline our other segments may be unable to make up any significant shortfall and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. And because the Americas segment is relatively mature and produces the large majority of our operating cash flows, such a slowdown or decline could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international business and other initiatives and for returning cash to shareholders.•We are increasingly dependent on the success of our CAP and EMEA operating segments in order to achieve our growth targets. Our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of our CAP and EMEA operating segments. Some or all of our international market business units ("MBUs"), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. The performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of the countries in which our large MBUs operate. In particular, our China MBU contributes meaningfully to both net revenues and earnings for our CAP segment and our Japan MBU contributes significantly to earnings in that segment. In the EMEA segment, our UK MBU accounts for a significant portion of the net revenues. A decline in performance of any of these MBUs could have a material adverse impact on the results of our international operations.Additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of the CAP and EMEA segments are different than those affecting our US stores and licensees. Tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some MBUs may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the US or other international markets. Occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the US due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. Because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations, such as in the US. Additionally, our international joint venture partners or licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. Our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: •foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies; •changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets; •interpretation and application of laws and regulations; •restrictive actions of foreign or US governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the US and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors, and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; •import or other business licensing requirements;•the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights;•limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new US and international regulations;•in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving sufficient levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast;•difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to governmental actions affecting supply chain logistics, distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality employees in local markets;•local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees;•delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share; and•disruption in energy supplies affecting our markets.Moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. 13Table of Contents•Increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We purchase, roast, and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. The price of coffee is subject to significant volatility and has and may again increase significantly due to one or more of the factors described below. The high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the "C" price. This premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. Increases in the "C" coffee commodity price do increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. We frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base "C" coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. These are known as price-to-be-fixed contracts. The supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, crop disease, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels and political and economic conditions, as well as the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. Speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. Because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have an adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. Additionally, and although less significant to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities, including but not limited to tea and those related to food inputs, such as cocoa, produce, baking ingredients, meats and energy, are important to our operations. Increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities, or lack of availability, especially in international markets, could have an adverse impact on our profitability. •Our financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. Our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of which are largely outside our control. Any one or more of the factors listed below or described elsewhere in this risk factors section could adversely impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: •increases in labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market and minimum wage levels and workers' compensation insurance costs; •adverse outcomes of litigation; and•especially in our larger or fast growing markets, labor discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, boycotts, social unrest, and natural disasters, including health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores.•Interruption of our supply chain could affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and could negatively impact our business and profitability. Any material interruption in our supply chain, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants, interruptions in service by our third party logistic service providers or common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions, or natural disasters that cause a material disruption in our supply chain could negatively impact our business and our profitability.Additionally, our food, beverage and other products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. We rely on these suppliers and vendors to provide high quality products and to comply with applicable laws. Our ability to find qualified suppliers and vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the US. A vendor's or supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner, and comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. These issues could negatively impact our business and profitability. 14Table of Contents•Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. Failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to operating margins, earnings per share, comparable store sales, operating cash flows, and net revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. In addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance.•The loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives, some of which involve ongoing expansion in business channels outside of our traditional company-operated store model. Our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees whom we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience. Accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected.•We rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and could adversely affect our financial results. We rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, Starbucks Cards, online business, mobile payments, reloads and loyalty functionality and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability, integrity and capacity of these systems. We also rely on third party providers and platforms for some of these information technology systems and support. Although we have security measures in place, they may not be effective in preventing the failure of these systems or platforms to operate effectively and be available. Such failures may be caused by various factors, including power outages, catastrophic events, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or platforms, flaws in third party software, or a breach in the security of these systems or platforms, including through cyber-attacks. If our disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not resolve these issues in an effective manner they could cause material negative impacts to our product availability and sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results.•Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could harm our business and financial results. Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the SEC, NASDAQ, and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, privacy, food, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. The complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. In addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in litigation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements. Item 1B