Item 1A. Risk
    Factors


 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
    forward-looking statements generally are identified by words
    such as “believe”, “expect”,
    “anticipate”, “estimate”,
    “intend”, “strategy”, “may”,
    “will likely” and similar words or phrases. A
    forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a
    guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future
    events or circumstances may not occur. Investors should not
    place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which
    speak only as of the date of this Report. Starbucks is under no
    obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements,
    whether as a result of new information, future events or
    otherwise. These forward-looking statements are all based on
    currently available operating, financial and competitive
    information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
    The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ
    materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not
    limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. The
    risks below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional
    risks and risks that management currently considers immaterial
    may also have an adverse effect on the Company.


 



    • A
    regional or global health pandemic could severely affect
    Starbucks business.


 


    A health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely
    by infection and affects many individuals in an area or
    population at the same time. If a regional or global health
    pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and
    severity, the Company’s business could be severely
    affected. Starbucks has positioned itself as a “third
    place” between home and work where people can gather
    together for human connection. Customers might avoid public
    gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local,
    regional or national governments might limit or ban public
    gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. A regional or
    global health pandemic might also adversely impact the
    Company’s business by disrupting or delaying production and
    delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by
    causing staffing shortages in its stores. The impact of a health
    pandemic on Starbucks might be disproportionately greater than
    on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people
    together for the sale, use or license of their products and
    services.


 



    • Market
    expectations for Starbucks financial performance are
    high.


 


    Management believes the price of Starbucks stock reflects high
    market expectations for its future operating results. In
    particular, any failure to meet the market’s high
    expectations for Starbucks comparable store sales growth rates,
    earnings per share and new store openings could cause the market
    price of Starbucks stock to drop rapidly and sharply.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Starbucks
    is subject to a number of significant risks that might cause the
    Company’s actual results to vary materially from its
    forecasts, targets, or projections, including:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    declines in actual or estimated comparable store sales growth
    rates and expectations;



 


     
        • 

    
    failing to meet annual targets for store openings, as a result
    of delays in store openings or failing to identify and secure
    sufficient real estate locations;



 


     
        • 

    
    negative trends in operating expenses or failing to continue to
    increase net revenues and operating income in any or all of
    Starbucks United States, International and CPG operating
    segments;



 


     
        • 

    
    failing to penetrate and expand into emerging International
    markets, such as China;



 


     
        • 

    
    opening less productive stores and cannibalizing existing stores
    with new stores;



 


     
        • 

    
    higher costs associated with maintaining and refurbishing the
    Company’s existing base of Company-operated retail stores;




 




    
    



        10
    
        STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION, FORM 10-K
    






Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    failing to anticipate, appropriately invest in and effectively
    manage the human, information technology and logistical
    resources necessary to support the growth of its business,
    including managing the costs associated with such resources;



 


     
        • 

    
    failing to integrate, leverage and generate expected rates of
    return on investments, including expansion of existing
    businesses and expansion through domestic and foreign
    acquisitions;



 


     
        • 

    
    failing to generate sufficient future positive operating cash
    flows and, if necessary, secure adequate external financing to
    fund its growth;



 


     
        • 

    
    declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee
    products;



 


     
        • 

    
    failing to meet customer demand efficiently during peak periods;



 


     
        • 

    
    lack of customer acceptance of new products;



 


     
        • 

    
    lack of customer acceptance of Starbucks products in new markets;



 


     
        • 

    
    failing to consistently provide high quality products and
    innovate new products and business processes to retain the
    Company’s existing customer base and attract new customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    increases in the price of high quality arabica coffee,
    dairy products, fuel, energy or other consumables, and the
    Company’s inability to obtain a sufficient supply of such
    commodities and consumables as its business grows;



 


     
        • 

    
    failing to manage the impact of any adverse publicity regarding
    the Company’s business practices or the health effects of
    consuming its products;



 


     
        • 

    
    increased labor costs, including significant increases in health
    care benefits and worker’s compensation insurance costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    litigation against Starbucks, particularly any class action
    litigation;



 


     
        • 

    
    unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which
    Starbucks operates, including, but not limited to, changes in
    interest rates, unemployment rates, disposable income and other
    events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending;



 


     
        • 

    
    unanticipated changes in executive management;



 


     
        • 

    
    any material interruption in the Company’s supply chain,
    such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to
    the casualty loss of any of the Company’s roasting plants,
    or material interruption in the supply of fluid milk or paper
    and plastic products such as cups, lids, napkins, straws,
    shopping bags and corrugated paper boxes, in each case due to
    the inability of one or more key suppliers to fulfill the
    Company’s requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased
    competition generally;



 


     
        • 

    
    failing to manage the impact on Starbucks business of factors
    such as labor discord, war, terrorism, political instability in
    certain markets and natural disasters; and



 


     
        • 

    
    interruptions in service by common carriers that ship goods
    within the Company’s distribution channels.





 



    • The
    Company’s success depends substantially on the value of the
    Starbucks brand.


 


    Starbucks believes it has built an excellent reputation globally
    for the quality of its products, for delivery of a consistently
    positive consumer experience and for its corporate social
    responsibility programs. The Starbucks brand has been highly
    rated in several global brand value studies. Management believes
    it must preserve and grow the value of the Starbucks brand to be
    successful in the future, particularly outside of North America,
    where the Starbucks brand is less well known. Brand value is
    based in part on consumer perceptions as to a variety of
    subjective qualities, and can be damaged badly even by isolated
    business incidents that degrade consumer trust, particularly if
    the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in
    litigation. Consumer demand for the Company’s products and
    its brand equity could diminish significantly if

 




    
    



        STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION, FORM 10-K
    
        11
    






Table of Contents




    Starbucks fails to preserve the quality of its products, is
    perceived to act in an unethical or socially irresponsible
    manner or fails to deliver a consistently positive consumer
    experience in each of its markets.


 



    • Starbucks
    is highly dependent on the financial performance of its United
    States operating segment.


 


    The Company’s financial performance is highly dependent on
    its United States operating segment, which comprised 79% of
    consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2006. Any substantial
    or sustained decline in these operations, if not offset by
    increased financial performance elsewhere, could materially
    adversely affect the Company’s business and financial
    results.


 



    • Starbucks
    is increasingly dependent on the success of its International
    operating segment in order to achieve its growth
    targets.


 


    The Company’s future growth depends increasingly on the
    growth and operations of its International operating segment.
    Some or all of the Company’s International market business
    units (“MBUs”), which Starbucks generally defines by
    the countries or regions in which they operate, may not be
    successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth.
    Starbucks may find business partners who do not share its
    cultural, marketing or operating philosophies or who are unable
    to operate the MBU profitably. Some factors that will be
    critical to the success of International MBUs are different than
    those affecting the Company’s U.S. stores and
    licensees. Tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in new
    international markets into which Starbucks and its licensees
    expand may not embrace Starbucks products to the same extent as
    consumers in the Company’s existing markets. Occupancy
    costs and store operating expenses are also sometimes higher
    internationally than in the United States due to higher rents
    for prime store locations or costs of compliance with
    country-specific regulatory requirements. Because many of the
    Company’s International operations are in an early phase of
    development, operating expenses as a percentage of related
    revenues are often higher, compared to U.S. operations. The
    Company’s International operations are also subject to
    additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes or uncertainties in economic, social and political
    conditions in the Company’s markets;



 


     
        • 

    
    interpretation and application of laws and regulations;



 


     
        • 

    
    restrictive actions of foreign or United States governmental
    authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, including
    protective measures such as export and customs duties and
    tariffs and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership;



 


     
        • 

    
    import or other business licensing requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights;



 


     
        • 

    
    limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency
    exchange restrictions;



 


     
        • 

    
    lower levels of consumer spending on a per capita basis
    than in the United States;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign
    operations due to distance, language and cultural
    differences; and



 


     
        • 

    
    local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate
    with, retain or terminate employees.





 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The China
    market is important to the Company’s long-term growth
    prospects — doing business there and in other
    developing countries can be challenging.





 


    Starbucks expects the People’s Republic of China to be its
    largest market outside of the United States. Any significant or
    prolonged deterioration in
    U.S.-China
    relations might adversely affect the Company’s China
    business. The Company’s growing investments in its China
    operations will increase the Company’s exposure in this
    market.

 




    
    



        12
    
        STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION, FORM 10-K
    






Table of Contents




    Many of the risks and uncertainties of doing business in China
    are solely within the control of the Chinese government.
    China’s government regulates the business conducted by
    Starbucks through its subsidiaries, joint ventures and
    authorized licensees by restricting the scope of the
    Company’s foreign investments within China and the food and
    beverage, retail, wholesale and distribution business conducted
    within China. Although management believes it has structured the
    Company’s China operations to comply with local laws, there
    are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and
    application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of
    intellectual property and contract rights in China. If
    China’s governmental authorities were ultimately to
    conclude that Starbucks has not complied with one or more
    existing or future laws or regulations, or if their
    interpretations of those laws or regulations were to change over
    time, the Company’s affiliates could be subject to fines
    and other financial penalties or forced to cease operations
    entirely. Moreover, it could adversely affect the Company’s
    business if it is unable to enforce its intellectual property
    and contract rights in China’s courts.


 


    Additionally, Starbucks plans to enter selected markets in other
    developing countries (such as Russia and India) as an important
    part of the projected growth of the International operating
    segment. Some of those markets pose legal and business
    challenges similar to the China market, such as substantial
    uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of laws
    and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property
    and contract rights.


 



    • Effectively
    managing the Company’s rapid growth is
    challenging.


 


    The Company’s long-term goal is to open approximately
    20,000 Starbucks stores in the United States and at least 20,000
    stores in International markets. Starbucks expects annual total
    net revenue growth of approximately 20% and annual earnings per
    share growth of approximately
    20-25% for
    the next three to five year period. Effectively managing growth
    on this scale is challenging, particularly as Starbucks expands
    into new markets internationally, and it becomes increasingly
    difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high quality raw
    materials, to hire sufficient numbers of key employees to meet
    the Company’s growth targets, to maintain an effective
    system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise
    and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high
    quality product and customer experience. Achieving the
    Company’s growth targets is also dependent on its ability
    to open more new stores in the current year as well as future
    years than it opened in prior years.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    The loss
    of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining
    qualified personnel could jeopardize the Company’s ability
    to meet its growth targets.





 


    The success of the Company’s efforts to grow its business
    depends on the contributions and abilities of key executive and
    operating officers and other personnel. Starbucks must continue
    to recruit, retain and motivate management and operating
    personnel sufficient to maintain its current business and
    support its projected growth. A shortage or loss of these key
    employees might jeopardize the Company’s ability to meet
    its growth targets.


 



    • Starbucks
    faces intense competition in the specialty coffee
    market.


 


    There are numerous competitors in almost every market in which
    Starbucks operates and in which it expects to expand in both the
    specialty coffee beverage business and the specialty whole bean
    coffee business. This is especially true in the major
    metropolitan areas where Starbucks operates and expects to
    expand, in virtually all of which there are local or regional
    competitors with substantial collective market presence.
    Although competition in the specialty coffee beverage market is
    currently fragmented, competition is increasing, particularly
    from competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector who are
    focusing on growing the specialty coffee beverage part of their
    businesses. A major competitor with substantially greater
    financial, marketing and operating resources than Starbucks
    could enter this market at any time and compete directly against
    Starbucks. The Company’s whole bean coffees compete
    directly against specialty coffees sold through supermarkets,
    specialty retailers and a growing number of specialty coffee
    stores. Some of the Company’s competitors in these whole
    bean specialty coffee distribution channels have greater
    financial and marketing resources than Starbucks. Both the
    Company’s whole bean coffees and its coffee beverages
    compete indirectly against all other coffees on the market.
    Starbucks also faces well-established competitors in many
    international markets. If Starbucks fails to maintain

 




    
    



        STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION, FORM 10-K
    
        13
    






Table of Contents




    and build market share in the specialty coffee market and the
    coffee market generally, it could harm the Company’s
    business and financial results.


 



    • Adverse
    public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming
    the Company’s products could harm its business.


 


    Some of the Company’s products contain caffeine, dairy
    products, sugar and other active compounds, the health effects
    of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny,
    including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine,
    dairy products, sugar and other active compounds can lead to a
    variety of adverse health effects. There has also been greater
    public awareness that sedentary lifestyles, combined with
    excessive consumption of high-calorie foods, have led to a
    rapidly rising rate of obesity. Particularly in the United
    States, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks,
    including obesity, due in part to increasing publicity and
    attention from health organizations, as well as increased
    consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of
    consumption of various food products. While Starbucks has a
    variety of beverage and food items that are low in caffeine and
    calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of
    caffeine or other compounds present in the Company’s
    products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other
    health risks such as obesity, could significantly reduce the
    demand for the Company’s beverages and food products.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Significant
    increases in the market price or decreases in availability of
    high quality arabica coffee could harm the Company’s
    business and financial results.





 


    The supply and price of coffee are subject to significant
    volatility. Although most coffee trades in the commodity market,
    high-altitude arabica coffee of the quality sought by
    Starbucks tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial
    premium above commodity coffee prices, depending on the supply
    and demand at the time of purchase. Supply and price can be
    affected by multiple factors in the producing countries,
    including weather, political and economic conditions. In
    addition, green coffee prices have been affected in the past,
    and may be affected in the future, by the actions of certain
    organizations and associations that have historically attempted
    to influence prices of green coffee through agreements
    establishing export quotas or restricting coffee supplies. Any
    significant increase in the market price or any significant
    decrease in the availability of high quality arabica
    coffee could adversely affect the Company’s business
    and financial results. Starbucks also purchases large quantities
    of dairy products — particularly milk. Any significant
    increase in the market price or decrease in availability of
    dairy products could harm the Company’s business and
    financial results.


 



    • Failure
    of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
    could harm its business and financial results.


 


    The management of Starbucks is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting.
    Internal control over financial reporting is a process to
    provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
    financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. Internal control over financial reporting includes
    maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and
    fairly reflect the Company’s transactions; providing
    reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
    for preparation of the financial statements; providing
    reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are made in
    accordance with management authorization; and providing
    reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or
    disposition of the Company assets that could have a material
    effect on the financial statements would be prevented or
    detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations,
    internal control over financial reporting is not intended to
    provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of the
    Company’s financial statements would be prevented or
    detected. The Company’s rapid growth and entry into new,
    globally dispersed markets will place significant additional
    pressure on the Company’s system of internal control over
    financial reporting. Any failure to maintain an effective system
    of internal control over financial reporting could limit the
    Company’s ability to report its financial results
    accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud.


 



    Item 1B