Item 1A. Risk Factors. Discussed below are the material risk factors relating to Spectra Energy.Reductions in demand for natural gas and oil, and low market prices of commodities adversely affect our operations and cash flows.Our regulated businesses are generally economically stable; they are not significantly affected in the short-term by changing commodity prices. However, our businesses can all be negatively affected in the long term by sustained downturns in the economy or long-term conservation efforts, which could affect long-term demand and market prices for natural gas, oil and NGLs. These factors are beyond our control and could impair the ability to meet long-term goals.Most of our revenues are based on regulated tariff rates, which include the recovery of certain fuel costs. However, lower overall economic output could reduce the volume of natural gas and NGLs transported and distributed or gathered and processed at our plants, and the volume of oil transported, resulting in lower earnings and cash flows. This decline would primarily affect distribution revenues in the short term. Transmission revenues could be affected by long-term economic declines, resulting in the non-renewal of long-term contracts at the time of expiration. Lower demand along with lower prices for natural gas, oil and NGLs could result from multiple factors that affect the markets where we operate, including:•weather conditions, such as abnormally mild winter or summer weather, resulting in lower energy usage for heating or cooling purposes, respectively;•supply of and demand for energy commodities, including any decrease in the production of natural gas and oil which could negatively affect our processing and transmission businesses due to lower throughput;•capacity and transmission service into, or out of, our markets; and•petrochemical demand for NGLs.The lack of availability of natural gas and oil resources may cause customers to seek alternative energy resources, which could materially affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows.Our natural gas and oil businesses are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas and oil production and reserves. Prices for natural gas and oil, regulatory limitations on the development of natural gas and oil supplies, or a shift in supply sources could adversely affect development of additional reserves and production that are accessible by our pipeline, gathering, processing and distribution assets. Lack of commercial quantities of natural gas and oil available to these assets could cause customers to seek alternative energy resources, thereby reducing their reliance on our services, which in turn would materially affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows.Investments and projects located in Canada expose us to fluctuations in currency rates that may affect our results of operations, cash flows and compliance with debt covenants.We are exposed to foreign currency risk from our Canadian operations. An average 10% devaluation in the Canadian dollar exchange rate during 2014 would have resulted in an estimated net loss on the translation of local currency earnings of approximately $44 million on our Consolidated Statement of Operations. In addition, if a 10% devaluation had occurred on December 31, 2014, the Consolidated Balance Sheet would have been negatively impacted by $499 million through a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI). At December 31, 2014, one U.S. dollar translated into 1.16 Canadian dollars.27Table of ContentsIn addition, we maintain credit facilities that typically include financial covenants which limit the amount of debt that can be outstanding as a percentage of total capital for Spectra Energy or of a specific subsidiary. Failure to maintain these covenants could preclude us from issuing commercial paper or letters of credit, or borrowing under our revolving credit facilities, and could require other affiliates to immediately pay down any outstanding drawn amounts under other revolving credit agreements, which could affect cash flows or restrict business. Foreign currency fluctuations have a direct impact on our ability to maintain certain of these financial covenants.Natural gas gathering and processing, NGL processing and marketing, and market-based storage operations are subject to commodity price risk, which could result in a decrease in our earnings and reduced cash flows.We have gathering and processing operations that consist of contracts to buy and sell commodities, including contracts for natural gas, NGLs and other commodities that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash. We are exposed to market price fluctuations of NGLs and natural gas primarily in Field Services and at Empress in our Western Canada Transmission & Processing segment, and to oil primarily in our Field Services segment. The effect of commodity price fluctuations on our earnings could be material. Effective January 2014, we implemented a commodity hedging program at Empress in order to manage risks associated with Empress’ commodity price fluctuations. The commodity hedging program helps manage the fluctuations in the Conway/Mont Belvieu index prices. However, it does not manage potential fluctuations in pricing differentials between the Empress market and index prices. The changes in pricing differentials may be material and may adversely affect results.We have market-based rates for some of our storage operations and sell our storage services based on natural gas market spreads and volatility. If natural gas market spreads or volatility deviate from historical norms or there is significant growth in the amount of storage capacity available to natural gas markets relative to demand, our approach to managing our market-based storage contract portfolio may not protect us from significant variations in storage revenues, including possible declines, as contracts renew.Our business is subject to extensive regulation that affects our operations and costs.Our U.S. assets and operations are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities, including regulation by the FERC and by various authorities under federal, state and local environmental laws. Our natural gas assets and operations in Canada are also subject to regulation by federal, provincial and local authorities, including the NEB and the OEB, and by various federal and provincial authorities under environmental laws. Regulation affects almost every aspect of our business, including, among other things, the ability to determine terms and rates for services provided by some of our businesses, make acquisitions, construct, expand and operate facilities, issue equity or debt securities, and pay dividends.In addition, regulators in both the U.S. and Canada have taken actions to strengthen market forces in the gas pipeline industry, which have led to increased competition. In a number of key markets, natural gas pipeline and storage operators are facing competitive pressure from a number of new industry participants, such as alternative suppliers, as well as traditional pipeline competitors. Increased competition driven by regulatory changes could have a material effect on our business, earnings, financial condition and cash flows.Execution of our capital projects subjects us to construction risks, increases in labor and material costs, and other risks that may affect our financial results.A significant portion of our growth is accomplished through the construction of new pipelines and storage facilities as well as the expansion of existing facilities. Construction of these facilities is subject to various regulatory, development, operational and market risks, including:•the ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on acceptable terms and to maintain those approvals and permits issued and satisfy the terms and conditions imposed therein;•the availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to complete expansion projects;•potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that may prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project;•impediments on our ability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis and on acceptable terms;28Table of Contents•the ability to construct projects within anticipated costs, including the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of equipment, materials or labor, weather, geologic conditions or other factors beyond our control, that may be material; and•general economic factors that affect the demand for natural gas infrastructure.Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated cost. As a result, new facilities may not achieve their expected investment return, which could affect our earnings, financial position and cash flows.Gathering and processing, natural gas transmission and storage, crude oil transportation and storage, and gas distribution activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise affect our operations.There are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent in natural gas gathering and processing, transmission, storage, and distribution activities, and crude oil transportation and storage, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems, activities of third parties and damage to pipelines, facilities and equipment caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in significant injury, loss of life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which could result in substantial losses. For pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. We do not maintain insurance coverage against all of these risks and losses, and any insurance coverage we might maintain may not fully cover the damages caused by those risks and losses. Therefore, should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material effect on our business, earnings, financial condition and cash flows.Our operations are subject to pipeline safety laws and regulations, compliance with which may require significant capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and affect or limit our business plans. Our interstate pipeline operations are subject to pipeline safety laws and regulations administered by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) of the DOT. These laws and regulations require us to comply with a significant set of requirements for the design, construction, maintenance and operation of our interstate pipelines. These regulations, among other things, include requirements to monitor and maintain the integrity of our pipelines. The regulations determine the pressures at which our pipelines can operate.In 2010, serious pipeline incidents on systems unrelated to ours focused the attention of Congress and the public on pipeline safety. Legislative proposals were introduced in Congress to strengthen the PHMSA’s enforcement and penalty authority, and expand the scope of its oversight. In 2011, PHMSA initiated an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking announcing its consideration of substantial revisions in its regulations to increase pipeline safety. In January 2012, the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 was signed into law. This Act (the 2012 PSA Amendments) amends the Pipeline Safety Act in a number of significant ways, including:•Authorizing PHMSA to assess higher penalties for violations of its regulations,•Requiring PHMSA to adopt appropriate regulations within two years requiring the use of automatic or remote-controlled shutoff valves on new or rebuilt pipeline facilities and to perform a study on the application of such technology to existing pipeline facilities in High Consequence Areas (HCAs),•Requiring operators of pipelines to verify maximum allowable operating pressure and report exceedances within five days,•Requiring PHMSA to study and report on the adequacy of soil cover requirements in HCAs, and•Requiring PHMSA to evaluate in detail whether integrity management requirements should be expanded to pipeline segments outside of HCAs (where the requirements currently apply).Many of these legislative changes, such as increasing penalties, have been completed, while others are substantially in progress with resolution expected in 2015. Additionally, Congress is tasked with reauthorization of the Pipeline Safety Act during fiscal year 2015. PHMSA is designing an Integrity Verification Process intended to create standards to verify maximum allowable operating pressure, and to improve and expand integrity management processes. There remains uncertainty as to how these standards will be implemented, but it is expected that the changes will impose additional costs on new pipeline projects as well as on existing operations. In this climate of increasingly stringent regulation, pipeline failures or failures to comply with applicable regulations could result in reduction of allowable operating pressures as authorized by PHMSA, which would reduce 29Table of Contentsavailable capacity on our pipelines. Should any of these risks materialize, it may have an adverse effect on our operations, earnings, financial condition and cash flows.In Canada, our interprovincial and international pipeline operations are subject to pipeline safety regulations overseen by the NEB. Applicable legislation and regulation require us to comply with a significant set of requirements for the design, construction, maintenance and operation of our interprovincial and international pipelines. Among other obligations, this regulatory framework imposes requirements to monitor and maintain the integrity of our pipelines.As in the U.S., several legislative changes addressing pipeline safety in Canada have recently come into force. The changes evidence an increased focus on the implementation of management systems to address key areas such as emergency management, integrity management, safety, security and environmental protection. Other legislative changes have created authority for the NEB to impose administrative monetary penalties for non-compliance with the regulatory regime it administers.Compliance with these legislative changes may impose additional costs on new Canadian pipeline projects as well as on existing operations. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in a number of consequences which may have an adverse effect on our operations, earnings, financial condition and cash flows.Our operations are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, compliance with which may require significant capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and affect or limit our business plans, or expose us to environmental liabilities.We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures, including expenditures for cleanup costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties. In particular, compliance with major Clean Air Act regulatory programs may cause us to incur significant capital expenditures to obtain permits, evaluate offsite impacts of our operations, install pollution control equipment, and otherwise assure compliance. The precise nature of these compliance obligations at each of our facilities has not been finally determined and may depend in part on future regulatory changes. In addition, compliance with new and emerging environmental regulatory programs is likely to significantly increase our operating costs compared to historical levels.Failure to comply with environmental regulations may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting our operating assets. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations or the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations could result in a material increase in our cost of compliance with such laws and regulations. We may not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operating assets or development projects. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, if we fail to obtain or comply with them or if environmental laws or regulations change or are administered in a more stringent manner, the operations of facilities or the development of new facilities could be prevented, delayed or become subject to additional costs. No assurance can be made that the costs that may be incurred to comply with environmental regulations in the future will not have a significant effect on our earnings and cash flows.The enactment of climate change legislation or the adoption of regulations under the existing Clean Air Act could result in increased operating costs and delays in obtaining necessary permits for our capital projects.The current international climate framework, the United Nations-sponsored Kyoto Protocol, prescribed specific targets to reduce GHG emissions for developed countries for the 2008-2012 period. The Kyoto Protocol expired in 2012 and had not been signed by the U.S.; however, at the Copenhagen Climate Change Summit in 2009, the U.S. indicated it would reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 17% below 2005 levels by 2020. The United Nations-sponsored international negotiations held in Durban, South Africa in 2011 resulted in a non-binding agreement (Durban Agreement) to develop a roadmap aimed at creating a global agreement on climate action to be implemented by 2020. The U.S. is a party to the Durban agreement. In the interim period before 2020, the Kyoto Protocol will continue in effect, although it is expected that not all of the current parties will choose to commit for this extended period.In the U.S., climate change action is evolving at state, regional and federal levels. The Supreme Court decision in Massachusetts v. EPA in 2007 established that GHGs were pollutants subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act. Pursuant to federal regulations, we are currently subject to an obligation to report our GHG emissions at our largest emitting facilities, but are not generally subject to limits on emissions of GHGs, (except to the extent that some GHGs consist of volatile organic 30Table of Contentscompounds and nitrous oxides that are subject to emission limits). Proposed regulation may extend our reporting obligations to additional facilities and activities. In addition, a number of Canadian provinces and U.S. states have joined regional greenhouse gas initiatives, and a number are developing their own programs that would mandate reductions in GHG emissions. Public interest groups are increasingly focusing on the emission of methane associated with natural gas development and transmission as a source of GHG emissions. However, as the key details of future GHG restrictions and compliance mechanisms remain undefined, the likely future effects on our business are highly uncertain.In 2010, the EPA issued the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and the Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule (Tailoring Rule). Beginning in 2011, the Tailoring Rule required that construction of new or modification of existing major sources of GHG emissions be subject to the PSD air permitting program (and later, the Title V permitting program), although the regulation also significantly increased the emissions thresholds that would subject facilities to these regulations. The scope of the Tailoring rule was limited by a 2015 U.S. Supreme Court decision, which determined that sources which are major sources only for GHGs (Step 2 sources) are no longer subject to the PSD permitting process. EPA followed with guidance indicating it will not enforce PSD permitting against these Step 2 sources. However, some states incorporated GHG permitting into their state regulations, and may continue to enforce these requirements. We anticipate that in the future, some new capital projects or projects to modify existing facilities could be subject to additional state-required permitting requirements related to GHG emissions that may result in delays in completing such projects. In 2014, the EPA proposed revising regulations to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) that would lower the existing standard from 75 parts per billion (ppb) set in 2008, to a standard between 65 and 70 ppb. This may increase the non-attainment areas along our system and the number of affected facilities. These facilities may require pollution control or replacement of equipment to comply with tightened standards and may face a less certain permitting process. In 2015, the Obama Administration issued its intention to regulate methane emissions from new and modified natural gas transmission and storage sources, and its expectation for voluntary emission decreases from existing sources. While uncertainty remains as to how this blueprint will be implemented, we anticipate that additional controls or costs may be incurred.Due to the speculative outlook regarding any U.S. federal and state policies and the uncertainty of the Canadian federal and provincial policies, we cannot estimate the potential effect of proposed GHG policies on our future consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. However, such legislation or regulation could materially increase our operating costs, require material capital expenditures or create additional permitting, which could delay proposed construction projects.We are involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcome of which are uncertain, and resolutions adverse to us could negatively affect our earnings, financial condition and cash flows.We are subject to numerous legal proceedings. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcome of individual matters with assurance. It is reasonably possible that the final resolution of some of the matters in which we are involved could require additional expenditures, in excess of established reserves, over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have a material effect on our earnings and cash flows.We rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to finance capital requirements and support liquidity needs, and access to those markets can be affected, particularly if we or our rated subsidiaries are unable to maintain an investment-grade credit rating, which could affect our cash flows or restrict business.Our business is financed to a large degree through debt. The maturity and repayment profile of debt used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from assets. Accordingly, we rely on access to both short-term and long-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations and to fund investments originally financed through debt. Our senior unsecured long-term debt is currently rated investment-grade by various rating agencies. If the rating agencies were to rate us or our rated subsidiaries below investment-grade, our borrowing costs would increase, perhaps significantly. Consequently, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease.We maintain revolving credit facilities to provide back-up for commercial paper programs for borrowings and/or letters of credit at various entities. These facilities typically include financial covenants which limit the amount of debt that can be outstanding as a percentage of the total capital for the specific entity. Failure to maintain these covenants at a particular entity could preclude that entity from issuing commercial paper or letters of credit or borrowing under the revolving credit facility and could require other affiliates to immediately pay down any outstanding drawn amounts under other revolving credit agreements, which could affect cash flows or restrict business. Furthermore, if Spectra Energy’s short-term debt rating were to be below tier 2 (for example, A-2 for Standard and Poor’s, P-2 for Moody’s Investor Service and F2 for Fitch Ratings), access to the commercial paper market could be significantly limited. Although this would not affect our ability to draw under our credit facilities, borrowing costs could be significantly higher.31Table of ContentsIf we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to finance operations and implement our strategy may be affected. Restrictions on our ability to access financial markets may also affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. An inability to access capital may limit our ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that we may otherwise rely on for future growth. Any downgrade or other event negatively affecting the credit ratings of our subsidiaries could make their costs of borrowing higher or access to funding sources more limited, which in turn could increase our need to provide liquidity in the form of capital contributions or loans to such subsidiaries, thus reducing the liquidity and borrowing availability of the consolidated group.We may be unable to secure renewals of long-term transportation agreements, which could expose our transportation volumes and revenues to increased volatility.We may be unable to secure renewals of long-term transportation agreements in the future for our natural gas transmission and crude oil transportation businesses as a result of economic factors, lack of commercial gas supply available to our systems, changing gas supply flow patterns in North America, increased competition or changes in regulation. Without long-term transportation agreements, our revenues and contract volumes would be exposed to increased volatility. The inability to secure these agreements would materially affect our business, earnings, financial condition and cash flows.We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers.We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers in the ordinary course of our business. Generally, our customers are rated investment-grade, are otherwise considered creditworthy or provide us security to satisfy credit concerns. A significant amount of our credit exposures for transmission, storage, and gathering and processing services are with customers who have an investment-grade rating (or the equivalent based on our evaluation) or are secured by collateral. However, we cannot predict to what extent our business would be impacted by deteriorating conditions in the economy, including possible declines in our customers’ creditworthiness. As a result of future capital projects for which natural gas producers may be the primary customer, our credit exposure with below investment-grade customers may increase. While we monitor these situations carefully and take appropriate measures when deemed necessary, it is possible that customer payment defaults, if significant, could have a material effect on our earnings and cash flows.Native land claims have been asserted in British Columbia and Alberta, which could affect future access to public lands, and the success of these claims could have a significant effect on natural gas production and processing.Certain aboriginal groups have claimed aboriginal and treaty rights over a substantial portion of public lands on which our facilities in British Columbia and Alberta, and the gas supply areas served by those facilities, are located. The existence of these claims, which range from the assertion of rights of limited use to aboriginal title, has given rise to some uncertainty regarding access to public lands for future development purposes. Such claims, if successful, could have a significant effect on natural gas production in British Columbia and Alberta, which could have a material effect on the volume of natural gas processed at our facilities and of NGLs and other products transported in the associated pipelines. In addition, various aboriginal groups in Ontario have claimed aboriginal and treaty rights in areas where Union Gas’ facilities, and the gas supply areas served by those facilities, are located. The existence of these claims could give rise to future uncertainty regarding land tenure depending upon their negotiated outcomes. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these claims or the effect they may ultimately have on our business and operations.Protecting against potential terrorist activities requires significant capital expenditures and a successful terrorist attack could affect our business.Acts of terrorism and any possible reprisals as a consequence of any action by the U.S. and its allies could be directed against companies operating in the U.S. This risk is particularly high for companies, like us, operating in any energy infrastructure industry that handles volatile gaseous and liquid hydrocarbons. The potential for terrorism, including cyber-terrorism, has subjected our operations to increased risks that could have a material effect on our business. In particular, we may experience increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security for our facilities and pipelines, such as additional physical facility and pipeline security, and additional security personnel. Moreover, any physical damage to high profile facilities resulting from acts of terrorism may not be covered, or covered fully, by insurance. We may be required to expend material amounts of capital to repair any facilities, the expenditure of which could affect our business and cash flows.Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital.32Table of ContentsPoor investment performance of our pension plan holdings and other factors affecting pension plan costs could affect our earnings, financial position and liquidity.Our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates used to measure pension liabilities, actuarial gains and losses, future government regulation and our contributions made to the plans. Without sustained growth in the pension plan investments over time to increase the value of our plan assets, and depending upon the other factors impacting our costs as listed above, we could experience net asset, expense and funding volatility. This volatility could have a material effect on our earnings and cash flows. Item 1B